                                         ABSTRACT
The aim of the present invention is to propose an offshore aquaculture installation in a
healthy environment for fish, having the smallest possible impact on the environment in
terms of pollution, with a combination of technical means ensuring the stability of the
structure and the safety of humans, with all the equipment necessary for easy offshore
operation. This aim is achieved by an offshore aquaculture installation comprising one or
a plurality of cages (1) for breeding fish and a floating structure (2) that is ballasted and
submersible. The installation is characterised in that it comprises a main anchoring
device having an anchor line (3) linked on one side (6) of the structure (2) and capable
of being anchored on the other side to a single anchoring point (4) in the installation
environment, the structure comprising at least two parallel casings (5) containing
adjustable ballasts, said casings (5) being installed at the bottom of each of the lateral
faces (7) of the structure (2), in that the cage or cages (1) is/are square or rectangular,
and in that the upper portion of the installation constitutes a handling bridge providing
access to the cages.

WO 2014/060107         PCT/EP2013/003129
               1/3
                   cm~

                     OFFSHORE AQUACULTURE INSTALLATION
   [0001]           The present invention relates to an offshore aquaculture installation.
 5 [0002]           Intensive fish breeding in a closed environment tends to develop largely
   nowadays. For this purpose, numerous wire cages have been created where fish can be
   fed up somehow, be kept away from predators, be monitored for their health condition,
   and then be caught easily when they have reached the desired size.
10 [0003]           Aquaculture facilities placed in protected sites such as atolls or fjord
   grounds are already known. However, a shortcoming of these facilities is their
   containment since water is only partially renewed and undergoes different pollution
   processes. Thus, fish cause local pollution of the volume containing them, as well as
   pollution of the submarine space situated under the installation, which also reduces the
15 quantity of oxygen available in the breeding volume. This situation promotes the
   development of diseases to the extent that the density of fish in the cages must be
   limited. This makes it compelling to use a large operation surface to achieve the targeted
   production. However, this large surface area will also be polluted. Moreover, these
   facilities can be polluted by continental refuse, such as for instance nitrates, city
20 wastewater, etc.
   [0004]           These coastal facilities have also other shortcomings. They pollute the
   coastal zones which provide the favored wild fish spawning areas, which jeopardizes the
   future production of professional fishing, which is already declining.
25
   [0005]           Moreover,    these   coastal facilities are  now competing       with  the
   development of real estate promotion, water sports, yachting, tourism and other
   shoreline activities.
30 [0006]           Offshore aquaculture has tried to remedy these shortcomings. To achieve
   this, floating cages anchored at the bottom of the sea have been used. The operation of
   said cages is more satisfactory when they are in storm-protected bays or coves.
   However, pollution remains a recurrent problem, since the absence of marine currents
   does not enable sufficient dispersion of the rejections from breeding cages, which also
35 compels to reduce the density of fish in the cages. Moreover, these artisanal cages
   cannot resist the conditions prevailing offshore and are also exposed to the pollutions
   rejected by the continent.
                                                 1

   [0007]            Most recently, offshore facilities have come to light. These facilities are
   ballasted and submersible and can evade storms and surface dangers, they can be
   arranged in areas traversed by marine currents and include several spaced-apart
   breeding modules, and positioned across the current.
 5
   [0008]            They are held in position by anchoring lines fitted with line tension
   adjustment devices to adapt to tidal ranges. The variation in water height can reach 12
   meters. These anchoring lines are connected most often to mooring structures that must
   be positioned carefully, which requires telemetry studies and often very costly
10 geotechnical arrangements, since the stability of the installation depends on the
   accuracy of these adjustments, whereas the undefined form of these ballasted facilities
   does not enable to secure the indispensable stability of the plant alone.
   [0009]            When the conditions of the currents are well-suited, i.e. when the currents
15 are sufficiently strong to enable good dispersion of the breeding rejections and maintain
   good oxygenation of the volume of water used, these facilities can give satisfaction on
   the breeding level.
   [00010]           However, in seas where the currents have a low to average intensity,
20 pollution becomes possible again, with the consequences already mentioned.
   [00011]           An aim of the present invention is to provide an offshore aquaculture
   installation in a healthy environment for fish with the smallest possible footprint on the
   environment in terms of pollution, with a combination of technical means securing the
25 stability of the structure and the safety of men, with all the necessary pieces of equipment
   enabling easy offshore operation or to at least provide the public or industry with a useful
   choice.
   [00012]           According to one example embodiment there is provided an offshore
30 aquaculture installation comprising one or several cages for breeding of fish and a
   floating, ballasted and submersible structure. Wherein the installation comprises a main
   anchoring device with an anchoring line connected on the one side to the structure and
   enabling on the other side to be anchored on a single anchoring point in the environment
   of the installation. The structure comprises at least two parallel hulls containing
35 adjustable ballasts, whereas these hulls are installed at the bottom of each of the side
   faces of the structure. The installation comprises one or several square or rectangular
   cages and its upper portion forms a handling bridge enabling circulation on the plant and
                                                   2

   securing access to the cages and to the operation equipment which might be provided.
   [00013]          The installation may be mobile thanks to a single main anchoring line
   enabling to carry out a large scope gyratory movement, thereby multiplying at least by 5,
 5 advantageously by 10, and more advantageously by 20 or more, the operation surface
   of the installation. The stability of the structure is ensured thanks to the hulls situated at
   the bottom of each of the lateral faces of the structure, which are less sensitive to surface
   sea movements. The keels enable better orientation of the installation with respect to a
   water current. If the direction of the water current changes, the installation may move
10 thanks to its single anchoring line, while keeping its orientation relative to the current.
   This arrangement also contributes to the stability of the installation. Thus, the direction
   of the water current inside the structure is known and the efficiency of the installation can
   be improved, for instance by the layout of the cages, of the food distribution points etc.
   For example, the loss of food through water currents can be strongly limited by providing
15 the food upstream.
   [00014]          It goes without saying that the main anchoring line enables the orientation
   of the installation according to the currents. However, one or several secondary
   anchoring lines can be installed for example to secure the plant in case of failure of the
20 main anchoring line, without affecting under normal conditions the orientation function of
   the main anchoring line.
   [00015]          The structure is easily accessible, even under unfavorable weather
   conditions, if the upper portion of the plant comprises an even working surface, such as
25 a handling and circulation bridge securing access to the cages and to the operating
   equipment provided. The surface area of this bridge may be in particular at least of 500
   M2 , advantageously 1000 M 2 , and possibly even 2000 m2 or more. Its length may reach
   60 m or more. This layout and its dimensions enable to carry out an efficient operation,
   with a minimum of risks for the staff. Moreover, the bridge of the installation can be
30 elevated above the level of the waves thanks to the ballasts of the installation; thereby
   the installation can float at different levels to suit the needs and the condition of the sea.
   [00016]          To improve the stability of the structure, the hulls of the structure can be
   fitted with fixed or mobile keels. The keel of a boat designates the lowermost part of the
35 boat. It enables to keep the boat balanced and also serves as a skeg. The word keel in
   the context of this document designates the form of a hydrodynamic body which enables
   the alignment of the structure with respect to a water current. Thus, the hulls may have
                                                    3

   flattened horizontal and/or vertical surfaces giving them the advantages of a keel by
   contributing to reducing the roll or pitch movements.
   [00017]          Fitting the hulls with keels enables faster orientation of the installation
 5 during changes of currents and better stability if the sea is rough.
   [00018]          Advantageously, the hulls can be fitted with roll stabilizers.
   [00019]          The form and the layout of the hulls at the bottom of each of the side faces
10 of the structure is an application of the SWATH (Small Waterplane Area Twin Hull)
   concept of a boat with two hulls. A boat with SWATH hulls is a twin hull boat, each hull
   being deeply immersed. The central platform at the water line level is connected to the
   hulls through thin junctions. This layout improves seaworthiness in bad weather.
15 [00020]          Depending on the dimensions of the installation, it may be advisable to
   position the hulls even deeper in the water to avoid sometimes rough areas close to the
   surface. For this purpose, thin and substantially vertical junction elements can be
   provided, connecting the hulls to the installation. The hulls can thus be arranged below
   the plant and secure in such a case, thanks to their position, their form and their volume,
20 better hydrostatic and hydrodynamic stability of the plant, which makes the plant
   particularly stable and insensitive to the destabilizing effects of the waves.
   [00021]          The advantages of the invention also enable on site implantation without
   costly adjustments and easy, fast and very economically displacement of the plant, with
25 the possibility of moving the plant at any pollution alert of the operation surface occupied.
   [00022]          An anchor point of such a facility can for instance be a ballasted mooring
   structure with a fastening device for the anchoring line of the installation. This can also
   be any anchoring device such as a suction anchor, a buried stem or column, or any
30 device fulfilling simultaneously the anchoring function and allowing a circular rotation.
   Anchoring on a single anchoring point has several advantages. First of all, the plant may
   perform a complete rotation over 3600 on the horizontal plane, for example thanks to a
   rotary support connecting the anchoring line to the mooring structure, to prevent the
   anchoring line from being twisted, which might otherwise weaken it. The position of the
35 installation is auto-adjusted according to the direction of the prevailing marine currents.
   The possible rejections of the plant are then easily dispersed.
                                                 4

   [00023]          Moreover, this single and ballasted mooring structure enables to install
   and to move the whole installation within quite a short time, which may also enable to
   change locations in case of insufficient currents or of any alert of self-pollution, for total
 5 preservation of the quality of the marine environment and maximum oxygenation of the
   breeding volume.
   [00024]         The length of the anchoring line has been calculated to establish a
   distance between the plumb line of the anchoring point and the linking point of the
10 anchoring line to the installation of at least 25 m, advantageously 50 m, or 80 m and
   more. These characteristics enable the installation to scatter its possible rejections along
   a significant circular perimeter, with a length proportional to its radius, whereas the
   permanent positioning of the longitudinal axis of the plant in the axis of the prevailing
   current providing better stability as well as notable advantages for easier operation.
15
   [00025]         Advantageously, the anchoring line is a rigid or semi-rigid arm. The
   connection between the anchoring line and the structure on the one hand and between
   the anchoring line and the anchoring point on the other hand can be a hinged connection
   on the horizontal plane, so as to compensate for the possible pitch of the plant and the
20 different water levels caused by tides. If the arm is a rigid arm, the plant can move along
   the periphery of a circle defined by the length of the arm which represents its radius. The
   arm can also be semi-rigid to enable free displacement of the plant around the periphery
   of a circle without the installation being able to traverse the inside of the circle.
25 [00026]          In another embodiment, the anchoring line is formed of several anchoring
   lines or of triangulated arms positioned in such a way that the ends connected to the
   installation can be spaced apart over the whole or a portion only of the width of the facility,
   whereas the opposite ends join at a central arm rather close to the central anchoring
   point or on the central anchoring point. These triangulated arms can be strengthened by
30 reinforcements connecting them.
   [00027]          If the arm is rigid and non-hinged, the installation is always in a
   substantially radial position with respect to the circle defined by the arm. The arm may
   preferably be hinged in a vertical direction close to its anchor points or at the level of its
35 anchoring points to adapt to the sea condition and to the currents. The arm can also be
   telescopic to keep a constant but adjustable anchoring radius length, regardless of the
   condition of the sea and currents.
                                                  5

   [00028]           The elements mentioned above and the fact the upper portion of the
   installation can be in normal operation condition 2 or 3 meters or more above sea level,
   facilitate the operation of the installation, in particular by providing constant and more
 5 reassuring mooring and access conditions. The posts and the handling equipment can
   be grouped, for example at the back of the installation, on the side opposite of the
   anchoring line. This grouping of the specific operation functions limits the movement of
   the staff on a large-size plant which may reach 60 m and more.
10 [00029]           The installation can in particular be elongated in shape and formed of
   longitudinal parallel cages, along its entire length. This arrangement enables fish to
   perform their longest travels into the current, which brings them closer to natural life and
   secures better flesh quality.
15 [00030]           Moreover, the cages can be fitted with meshed surfaces made of copper
   alloy, this alloy providing major operation advantages, such as for instance protection
   against external pollutions, diseases and contamination, better growth of the fish, etc.
   [00031]           The cages can be fitted with mobile partitions, meshed or with nets for
20 reducing the breeding volume in the longitudinal, transversal and/or vertical direction.
   This reduction can go down to a volume of 2m3. These volume reductions enable to
   carry out fish sorting and collecting down to the last fish easily.
   [00032]           The installation can be fitted with a standalone control and/or surveillance
25 module, which can be inhabitable or not, totally waterproof and submersible, integrated
   to the installation or removable, situated on the upper portion of the installation or forming
   an independent, floating and ballasted, submersible or semi-submersible module. This
   control module can also be an appropriately equipped boat.
30 [00033]           The installation according to the invention may also contain, in addition to
   the normal meshes or nets of the cages, deploying devices of mesh nets, lattices,
   plankton nets or textile walls either on all or a part of the vertical and horizontal faces of
   its cages, or on all or a part of the external faces of the installation, so as to cover them
   totally or partially only. Each device can be actuated by manual winches, rewinders,
35 cables, hinged or telescopic arms, manually or in an automated fashion, for easy
   intervention on the nets, lattices, plankton nets or textile walls, in particular to avoid food
   losses, to collect droppings or to ensure protection against external organisms, such as
                                                    6

   jellyfish for example. The size of the meshes must be selected to suit the purpose, for
   example smaller for collecting droppings and larger to protect against jellyfish.
   [00034]          The installation may moreover be fitted with a mast comprising in
 5 particular radio, radar, video and/or radio control equipment. The mast can be fixed or
   telescopic and/or retractable for easier maintenance of the equipment carried by the
   mast and the transportation or the displacement of the installation thanks to the possible
   reduction in height of the mast when it is telescopic or retractable. The height of such a
   mast could be of at least 20 m, advantageously 30 m or more. This mast which can be
10 telescopic and/or retractable enables to bring the mast head carrying the equipment back
   to the level of the "deck" of the installation, and men to intervene on the equipment
   without needing to climb up the mast. The head of mast carrying the equipment may also
   comprise a support for the equipment; to slide along a rigid mast. The mast may also
   contain a nacelle for accessing the top in complete safety.
15
   [00035]          To be autonomous, the installation can advantageously be fitted with
   water turbines and/or rigid, semi-rigid or flexible photovoltaic panels, whereas the latter
   can be actuated by reel-operated deploying devices. Besides, the installation can be
   fitted with wind turbines, which may in particular be retractable or also be installed on the
20 mast of the plant.
   [00036]          The plant may be equipped with hollow and totally or only partially
   waterproof skegs, which may be weighted and/or ballasted, and situated preferably at
   the back, on the external part of the longitudinal faces of the installation. They can also
25 be installed on the bridge of the installation, in which case they exert the function of a
   skeg only with respect to the winds or when the installation is immersed. These skegs
   may contain different pieces of control and/or surveillance equipment, energy storage,
   compressed air or food stores for instance, in addition to their dynamic function, and can
   comprise access means and an overhang forming an advancing for protection against
30 the waves. These skegs can also comprise dwelling accommodations. The skegs can in
   particular include food containers with variable volumes. They may comprise ballasts to
   compensate for weight differences in food present in these containers.
   [00037]          It is acknowledged     that the terms "comprise",         "comprises" and
35 "comprising" may, under varying jurisdictions, be attributed with either an exclusive or an
   inclusive meaning.     For the purpose of this specification, and unless otherwise noted,
   these terms are intended to have an inclusive meaning - i.e., they will be taken to mean
                                                 7

   an inclusion of the listed components which the use directly references, and possibly
   also of other non-specified components or elements.
   [00038]         Reference to any document in this specification does not constitute an
 5 admission that it is prior art, validly combinable with other documents or that it forms part
   of the common general knowledge.
   [00039]         The invention is explained in more detail below using the appended
   figures which show an embodiment of the invention schematically:
10
   [00040]         Figure 1          shows an     aquaculture   installation according to the
   invention in a side view;
   [00041]         Figure 2          shows the aquaculture installation according to figure 1 in
15 a rear view;
   [00042]         Figure 3          shows the aquaculture installation according to figures 1
   and 2 in a top view.
20 [00043]         Figure 1 illustrates an embodiment of an aquaculture installation
   according to the invention in a side view. It has to be noted that this figure, as well as the
   other figures, show the installation purely schematically to explain the general operating
   mode of the invention. Figures are neither true to scale nor complete but show
   schematically only the elements which are necessary to appreciate the invention.
25
   [00044]         The installation contains several rectangular cages 1 for fish breeding and
   a ballasted and submersible floating structure 2. The plant is globally rectangular in
   shape. It comprises two parallel hulls 5 installed at the bottom of each of the side faces
   7 and having keels. The upper portion of the part mostly exhibits a planar surface.
30
   [00045]         The plant comprises moreover an anchoring device with a rigid anchoring
   arm 3. The arm is linked on one side 6 to the structure 2 of the plant and is anchored on
   the other side on a single anchoring point 4 in the environment of the plant, in that
   particular instance on a ballasted dead body, installed at the bottom of the sea.
35
                                                   8

   [00046]          The fittings of the arm 3 on both sides 4, 6 are hinged fittings around
   horizontal axes so as to compensate for the effects of the tidal range. Anchoring to the
   single anchoring point 4 to a mooring structure enables 3600 rotation of the plant on the
   horizontal plane. The arm 3 can be telescopic to keep the rotation radius r constant,
 5 independently from the tides.
   [00047]          The hulls 5 comprise adjustable ballasts so as to be able to adjust the
   floating level 10 of the plant or immerse it to the selected depth.
10 [00048]           In normal operation condition, The upper portion of the plant is situated 2
   to 3 meters above the sea level. The mooring and access conditions are thus more
   reassuring. The posts and the handling equipment 9 are grouped at the back 8 of the
   installation, on the side opposite the anchoring arm 3. The plant comprises a retractable
   mast 11 to transmit radio electric signals, photovoltaic panels 12 to make the installation
15 autonomous, and dwelling accommodations 13 for the maintenance staff.
   [00049]           Figure 2 shows the plant according to figure 1 in a rear view. Both hulls 5
   can be seen at the bottom of the lateral sides 7 of the structure 2. The hulls 5 have keels
   14. The position of the hulls 5 at the bottom of the structure is an application of the
20 SWATH concept which makes the plant stable and insensitive to the destabilizing effects
   of the waves.
   [00050]           Figure 3 is a top view of the plant according to figures 1 and 2. The plant
   is rectangular in shape with an elongated rectangular base surface of 60 m of length.
25 The anchoring arm 3 connects the plant to a single anchoring point 4 on a ballasted
   mooring structure at the bottom of the sea and allows the installation rotation about 3600.
   The length of the rigid arm 3 is selected to that the rotation radius of the plant is of the
   order of magnitude of 80 m.
30 [00051]          The connection 6 of the arm 3 to the structure 2 is hinged to enable the
   plant to rotate with respect to the arm 3 about a horizontal axis so as to compensate for
   tidal effects. However, the connection 6 is otherwise rigid so that the structure 2 cannot
   rotate with respect to the arm 3 but solely about the single anchoring point 4. A change
   in the sea current at the location of the installation thus causes a displacement of the
35 installation by rotation about the anchoring point 4. The operating surface area of the
   installation is thus multiplied and the possible rejections from the plant are scattered.
                                                   9

  [00052]         The cages 1 inside the structure are arranged in the longitudinal direction
  over the whole length of the plant. The keels provide for the automatic orientation of the
  plant in the direction of the currents. The orientation of the plant defined with respect to
  the currents exhibits several advantages. It enables for instance fish to perform their
5 longest travels in longitudinal cages into the current C, which brings them closer to
  natural life and secures better flesh quality. Moreover, feed supply points can be selected
  upstream so as to limit losses.
                                                 10

                                           CLAIMS
   1. An offshore aquaculture installation comprising
 5           one or several cages for breeding of fish and
             a floating, ballasted and submersible structure,
      wherein
             the installation comprises a main anchoring device with an anchoring line
      connected on the one side to the structure and enabling on the other side to be
10    anchored on a single anchoring point in the environment of the installation,
             the structure comprises at least two parallel hulls containing adjustable
      ballasts, whereas these hulls are installed at the bottom of each of the side faces
      of the structure,
             the cage(s) are square or rectangular, and
15           the upper portion of the plant forms a handling bridge securing access to the
      cages.
   2. The aquaculture installation according to claim 1, wherein the hulls are provided
      with fixed or mobile keels.
20
   3. The aquaculture installation according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the anchoring
      line consists of a rigid or semi-rigid and/or telescopic arm.
   4. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
25    anchoring line is a rigid or semi-rigid arm composed of several triangulated arms.
   5. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
      connection between the anchoring line and the structure and between the
      anchoring line and the anchoring point is a hinged connection on the horizontal
30    plane.
                                              11

   6.  The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
       anchoring device enables a 3600 rotation of the installation.
   7.  The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the
 5     aquaculture installation is elongated in shape and formed of longitudinal cages
       along the entire length of the installation.
   8.  The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the
       cages are provided with mobile partitions.
10
   9.  The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the
       aquaculture installation comprises devices for deploying mesh nets over all or a
       portion of the vertical and horizontal faces of its cages and/or over all or a portion
       of the external faces of the plant.
15
   10. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
       aquaculture installation comprises hollow and waterproof skegs situated at the
       external face of the installation at the side opposite the anchoring means.
20 11. The aquaculture installation according to claim 10, wherein the hollow skegs are
       situated on the bridge of the plant.
   12. An aquaculture installation according to claim 11, wherein the skegs comprise
       adjustable ballasts.
25
   13. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the
       aquaculture installation is fitted with a waterproof and submersible control and/or
       surveillance module, integrated to the plant or removable or forming an
       independent, floating and ballasted, submersible or semi-submersible module.
30
   14. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the
       aquaculture installation is fitted with a mast comprising in particular radio, radar,
       video and/or radio control equipment and in that said mast is fixed or telescopic
       and/or retractable, in particular integrated to the plant or to the control module.
35
                                               12

15. The aquaculture installation according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the
    aquaculture installation is fitted with water turbines and/or rigid, semi-rigid or
    flexible photovoltaic panels, in particular actuated by reel-operated deploying
    devices.
                                          13

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013332059, is current as of 2017-09-19 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013332059, is current as of 2017-09-19 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013332059, is current as of 2017-09-19 21:00 AEST

