                                          Abstract
  The present invention sets forth a method and a device adapted to practice eating
  from a real first screen and a virtual second screen, for persons in need of a
5 regulated eating technique. The person that simulates eating from the second
  screen is guided to eat healthy without actual food-intake in accordance with the
  developments of Pavlov's theses on creating compulsory eating behaviors.

                                                       1
                      A method and a device adapted to practice simulated eating
                                               Technical Field
 5           The present invention pertains to a method and a device adapted to practice eating from a
   real first screen for persons in need of a regulated eating technique, which illustrates how a meal
   should be taken in from beginning to the end.
                                               Background Art
             Over a hundred years ago Pavlov illustrated that most of the physiology of the stomach
10 and intestinal channels can become compulsory by any given form of stimulus. A piece of food
   that is to say a non-compulsory stimuli triggers a physiological response from the
   stomach/intestine, and if stimulus that is not food related is combined with the piece of food
   several times then the non-food related stimuli will eventually trigger the same physiological
   response as it has become a compulsory response to the stimuli. The Pavlovian compulsory
15 principle is one of the most explored in the field of behavioral science including the field of
   neurobehavioral science.
             The document US 2010/0236839 Al to Bergh et al describes a device utilized to measure
   intake of food and rating satiety. It does not teach how to simulate intake of food from a computer
   screen where a person chews it without an intake of actual/real food, according to Pavlovian
20 principles.
             WO 2011/037513 Al describes a variant of what is described through US 2010/0236839
   Al. But it neither teaches how to simulate intake of food from a computer screen where a person
   chews it without an intake of actual/real food, according to Pavlovian principles.
             The following patent application documents US 2002/0128992, and US2001/0000810 Al
25 to Alabaster describes how to compose a meal on screen. But not how to simulate intake of food
   from a computer screen where a person chews it without an intake of actual/real food, according
   to Pavlovian principles.
             US patent application document US 2012/0127157 Al to Adler et al describes an avatar,
   where the avatar can receive inputs identifying physiological events. This document does not
30 teach how to simulate intake of food from a computer screen where a person chews it without an
   intake of actual/real food, according to Pavlovian principles.
                                             Summary of the invention
             The present invention aims to provide a means for a person to simulate eating healthy
   online in accordance with Pavlovian or other principles through virtual-simulation on a real screen
35 such as computer screens, TV-screens, smart phone screens or any other known screens. By
   providing the present invention it is possible to simulate eating without consuming real food
   whenever a person likes to simulate eating, and almost wherever the person is situated. This has
   never been suggested in the technical field.

                                                       2
             An aspect of the present invention provides a method to simulate eating to cause a
   release of stomach and intestinal hormones and a sensation of satiety in a user, said method
   comprising: providing a display screen and a user input; providing a database of food and meal
   options; displaying said food and meal options to a user on the display screen; receiving a user
 5 input to select a meal; displaying on the display screen the meal selected by the user; receiving
   user inputs to simulate eating the meal; providing feedback to a user on the display screen, the
   feedback including simulated eating pace and simulated amount of food eaten; and
   simultaneously providing the user, via graphics and/or sound, with a guidance for a healthy
   chewing pace.
10           Another aspect provides a device to perform the above method.
             Herein, there is described a method adapted to practice simulated eating in front of a real
   first screen, for persons in need of a regulated eating technique, which illustrates/controls the
   intake of a meal from beginning to end. The method comprises:
             generating graphical screen images on said first real screen for a virtual/simulated meal
15 through a computer program that shows graphics of a second virtual screen adapted to register
   eating pace/speed, through graphics of a virtual apparatus on the first real screen, which on the
   simulated screen for a person that is utilizing the program for simulated eating from a graphic of
   china with food from a database of different meals placed on a virtual scale, which registers
   simulated food intake, the intake of food is virtually/simulated-registered on a training curve of
20 eating pace on the virtual screen;
             generating a real time curve on the virtual screen, which shows a person's eating pace as
   well as the amount of food that has been eaten during the simulation of a meal, the healthy
   acceptable meal real time eating pace should adhere to the training curve of eating pace; and
             simulated chewing of the food by the person that simulates eating with the guidance of
25 visual feedback from the virtual screen, which results in a compulsory release of stomach and
   intestinal hormones, and a sensation of satiety in the person that is thereby taught to eat healthy
   through a simulation of a meal.
             In one embodiment a training curve is achieved for satiety in the shape of a sigmoid-curve
   illustrated on the virtual screen as well as that the person that simulates eating registers
30 intermittently its simulated satiety in the shape of graph points from the person's perception of
   satiety, when healthy satiety is achieved it should adhere to the sigmoid-curve.
             In another embodiment it comprises a method to a training curve that is descending from
   the beginning to the end of a meal.
             A further embodiment comprises a graphic of an avatar, which chews in a healthy pace
35 shown on the virtual screen in order to control the simulated chewing pace of a person that
   simulates eating.
             In yet another embodiment it is comprised by a graphic and/or sound of a metronome
   controlling the person that simulates eating to chew in a healthy pace.

                                                        3
            In still another embodiment it is comprised by a graphic of an icon or another graphic
   picture blinking/flashing and/or by sound controlling/guiding a person that simulates eating to
   chew in a healthy pace.
            Moreover, the present disclosure provides a device adapted to practice simulated eating
 5 from a real first screen for persons in need of a regulated eating technique, which illustrates the
   intake of a meal from beginning to end. The device comprises:
            means for creating of graphic screen images on the first real screen for a virtual meal that
   is shown graphically on a second virtual screen adapted to register eating pace through graphics
   on a virtual apparatus on the first real screen on the virtual screen for a person that is utilizing the
10 program for simulated eating from a graphic of china with food placed on a virtual scale, which
   registers when virtual food is taken in/consumed, the food being registered against a training
   curve of eating pace on the virtual screen;
            a data base with different meals to be selected by a person as a course for a simulated
   meal;
15          means for creating a real time curve on the virtual screen that shows a person's eating
   pace as well as the amount of food virtually eaten during the meal, the healthy acceptable meal
   real eating pace should adhere to the training curve of eating pace; and
            means for addressing virtual-chewing of food through the guidance of visual feedback
   from the virtual screen by a person that simulates eating, which results in a compulsory release of
20 stomach and intestinal hormones, and the experience of satiety in the person, which becomes
   taught to eat healthy through a simulated meal.
            Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this specification
   are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or components or
   groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features,
25 integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
                                    A brief description of the drawings
            Henceforth, reference is had to the accompanying drawings throughout the present
   description for a better understanding of the present inventions embodiments, and given
   examples, wherein:
30          Fig. 1 schematically illustrates one embodiment with a computer screen in picture
   reproduces an apparatus for simulated eating practicing in accordance with the present invention;
            Fig. 2 schematically illustrates the same picture as in Fig. 1 extended with utensils, a plate
   and a glass in picture in accordance with the present invention;
            Fig. 3 schematically illustrates a similar picture as in Fig. 2 extended with a vessel for
35 storing of food as well as food placed on the plate in the picture, wherein the plate has been
   placed on the scale in accordance with the present invention;
            Fig. 4 schematically illustrates the same picture as in Fig. 3, but extended by that the plate
   has been filled with food for an entire meal as well as liquid in the glass in accordance with the
   present invention;

                                                       4
                    Fig. 5 schematically illustrates in picture an apparatus that practices eating
    where the screen shows a scale for satiety registration before a meal of food is taken in in
    accordance with the present invention;
                   Fig. 6 schematically illustrates in picture training curves of eating pace and
 5  satiety on the screen as well as the real pace of which a person is eating with when the food
    is virtually removed from the plate in accordance with the present invention; and
                   Fig. 7 schematically illustrates in picture in accordance with Fig. 6 when more
   food is virtually removed from the plate in accordance with the present invention.
                            Detailed description of preferred embodiments
10                 The present invention regards a practicing to eat by internet/web/computer
    programs on a computer for a compulsory eating behavior of a person, which needs support
   when eating because of for instance bulimia, anorexia, obesity/overweight or other
   gastrointestinal symptoms.
                   As previously mentioned Pavlov illustrated over a hundred years ago that most
15 of the stomach and intestinal channels physiology could become compulsory by just about
   any kind of stimulus. A piece of food, a non-compulsory stimuli, for instance triggers a
    physiological response from the stomach and intestines, and if a stimulus that is non food
    related is combined with the piece of food multiple times then finally the non-food related
   stimuli will also trigger the same physiological response in the stomach and intestines by
20 functioning as a compulsory stimulus. This Pavlovian compulsory principle is one of the most
   examined principles in behavioral science including the field of neurobehavioral science
   research.
                   The method and device in accordance with the present invention, also known
   as Mandomeal @ as a working title, is based on the hypothesis that it is possible to create a
25 compulsory healthy physiology in the stomach and intestinal channels through
   "virtual/simulated-eating" for instance by practicing/mimicking to eat virtual-food that is shown
   on a computer screen, and simulate eating as if the food was real by chewing on a tidbit that
   a person has consumed in simulation at a healthy pace with the aid of visual feedback from
   an avatar 36, also chewing in a healthy pace on the screen ultimately resulting in a
30 compulsory release of stomach and intestinal hormones and a sensation of satiety in the
   person eating in simulation.
                   According to research audiology feedback can also guide a person to eat at an
   healthy pace, which is about 25-30 g / min with a chewing rate of about 5 g, wherein it is
   beneficial to indicate the chewing rate with a sound/vibration at a rate of five times per minute
35 to the person utilizing the present inventions method and device in order for the person to
   learn to eat at a healthy pace without eating real food.

                                                          5
             Means in the context of the present invention comprises software, hardware, and
   firmware.
             Fig. 1 illustrates in this embodiment, a computer screen 10 that in picture renders an
   apparatus 12 to practice virtual-eating, wherein the apparatus 12 is connected 14 to a scale 16 as
 5 well as the apparatus having a screen 18 to illustrate virtual-eating data that has been taken in by
   a person utilizing a computer to practice simulated eating in accordance with the present
   invention. The food is provided through a database (not shown) with different meals to be selected
   by a person as a course for a simulated meal. In one embodiment meals recorded in the database
   could be shown on the real screen 10 to choose a meal by for instance clicking/touching the
10 image of the meal/course.
             Furthermore, Fig. 2 illustrates the same screen image as Fig. 1, extended with utensils,
   plate 20 and a glass in accordance with the present invention. The plate shall be placed on the
   scale 16, and for this purpose the utensils can through dedicated software for this purpose be
   utilized to simulate eating food from the plate 20 by a person that is practicing to eat with the aid of
15 the computer screen 10 through for example computer mouse clicks.
             The practicing to simulated eating is continued in accordance with Fig. 3, wherein the
   computer screen 10 presents a food course that the person that is practicing to simulate the
   process of eating. The person is requested to place virtual food on the plate, 20 whereby the
   virtual screen 18 shall show/indicate food, in one example in accordance with the present
20 invention that corresponds with approximately 95-105 grams, 55 grams in Fig 3.
             In Fig. 4 the virtual screen 18 illustrates that 100 grams of food has been placed on the
   plate and the person that is practicing to eat is prompted, via prompt 22, to begin eating when
   ready. Alternatively, the screen 18 can show a percentage-scale of food on the plate. In one
   embodiment the screen 18 can be a blown up image on the screen 10 to aid the person in seeing
25 the eating results registered.
             Fig. 5 illustrates in picture the apparatus for practicing to eat where its screen shows a
   scale 24 for satiety registration that the person who is simulating eating is requested to mark the
   feeling of satiety before the intake of food in accordance with the present invention on the scale
   24, which the person will be requested to do during the course of a meal.
30           Moreover Fig. 6 illustrates in picture training curves of eating pace 28 and satiety 26 on
   the screen 18 as well as the real pace 30 that a person/avatar is simulating eating/chewing with
   when food is removed virtually from the plate in addition to registering graphic points 32 for satiety
   in accordance with the present invention.
             On the screen it is shown that the person who is practicing to eat has an eating pace that
35 is healthy because the curve 32 in large follows the training curve 28. Even the

                                                       6
   feeling of satiety of the person that is practicing to eat in accordance with the present
   invention is healthy when the two registrations of satiety 32 in Fig. 6 in large adhere to the
   sigmoid-curve 26, which is a scientifically based measuring curve developed by the present
   applicants researchers that has been shown to mimic a healthy eaters feeling of satiety.
 5 Furthermore, in Fig. 6 the person is requested/prompted to simulate eating a tidbit of food to
   chew 34 i.e. the person with a computer cursor clicks on the plate.
                   Fig. 7 illustrates a picture in accordance with Fig. 6 where more food has been
   virtually-removed from the plate in accordance with the present invention, and where the
   method according to Fig. 6 is repeated with registrations of satiety 32 with real eating pace
10 30 that follows the training curve 28 of eating pace with the sigmoid-curve 26 of satiety.
                   Hence, in accordance with the conditions of the present invention a method as
   well as a device is adapted to practice eating from a real first screen 10, which shows a
   person that is in need of a regulated eating technique showing how a meal is taken
   in/consumed from the beginning to the end. Hereby, graphical screen images are generated
15 from a first real screen 10 for a virtual/simulated meal through a computer program for this
   purpose. The program shows graphics of a second virtual screen 18 adapted to register
   eating pace 30 through a graphic of a virtual scale 16 for a person that is utilizing the
   program for virtual-eating, which is shown on the first real screen 10 and on the virtual
   screen 18 on a graphic of china 20 with food placed on the scale. That it is food that is being
20 shown is evident from Fig. 3-7, wherein it is registered when food is virtually taken in 30,
   where the intake of food 30 is virtually connected to a training curve 28 of eating pace on the
   virtual screen 18 of persons with a healthy food intake.
                   Moreover, a real curve 30 is generated on the virtual screen 18, which shows a
   person's eating pace/speed along with the food that has been eaten during the simulation of
25 a meal, where for a healthy acceptable meal the real eating pace should match the training
   curve 28 of eating pace. In one embodiment of the present invention the amount of food
   intake is illustrated on the Y-axis of a graph, and the pace of food-intake is shown on the X
   axis.
                   The chewing of food by the person that is virtual-eating is done under the
30 guidance of visual feedback from the virtual screen, which results in a compulsory release of
   stomach and intestinal hormones and a feeling of satiety in the person that is thereby
   virtually trained to eat at a healthy. Furthermore, Fig. 6-7 illustrates a training curve of satiety
   in the form of a sigmoid-curve 26 that is shown on the virtual screen 18 as well as that the
   person that simulates eating registers its virtual satiety 32 intermittently in the form of graph
35 points of a persons perceived satiety, which when a healthy satiety is achieved should
   adhere to the sigmoid-curve 26.

                                                     7
          In one embodiment of the present invention the training curve 28 is descending from the
beginning of a meal to the end, which has been scientifically proven by the applicant's researchers
to be natural for healthy eating.
          In order to ease the process of a person that is practicing to eat in accordance with the
present invention, the graphics of an avatar 36 in Fig. 6 and 7 that is chewing in a healthy pace is
shown on the virtual screen 18 to virtually guide the chewing pace of the person that simulates
eating. Alternatively, in one embodiment it is the graphics and/or the sound of a metronome that
controls the person that simulates eating to chew 34 in a healthy pace. Likewise, the present
invention comprises that the graphic of an icon or another graphical image that blinks/flashes
and/or by sound controls the person that simulates eating to chew in a healthy pace. Herein, the
pace of chewing could be of a frequency of about 1 bite/(1,5-1,7 sec), which is illustrated by the
avatar 36 in Fig. 6 and 7 that of course is movable in the screen 10, and could also show a more
natural image of a chewing human. An avatar is for instance a graphical representation of a
user/person that is eating of off the computer screen 10 in accordance with the present invention
or the users alter ego/character as a 3D-shape as in games or virtual worlds and in 2D in the form
of an icon in Internet forums or other online networks.
          The attached set of claims determines other possible embodiments of the present
invention to a person skilled in the art of the present technical field.
          The present disclosure provides the following features.
          A method adapted to practice simulated eating in front of a real first screen (10), for
persons in need of a regulated eating technique, which illustrates the intake of a meal from
beginning to end, characterized by comprising: generating graphical screen images on said first
real screen (10) for a simulated meal through a computer program that shows graphics of a
second virtual screen (18) adapted to register eating pace (30), through graphics of a virtual
apparatus (12) on said first real screen (10), which on the virtual screen (18) for a person that is
utilizing the program for simulated eating from a graphic of china (20) with food from a database of
different meals placed on a virtual scale (12), which registers said simulated food intake, said
intake of food is virtually registered on a training curve (28) of eating pace on the virtual screen
(18); generating a real time curve (30) on the virtual screen (18), which shows a person's eating
pace as well as the amount of food that has been eaten during a simulation of a meal, said
healthy acceptable meal real time eating pace (30) should adhere to the training curve (28) of
eating pace; and simulated chewing (34) of the food by the person that simulates eating with the
guidance of visual feedback from said virtual screen, which results in a compulsory release of
stomach and intestinal hormones, and a sensation of satiety in the person that is thereby taught to
eat healthy through simulation.
          A method according to the above feature, characterized by a training curve (26) for satiety
in the shape of a sigmoid-curve illustrated on the virtual screen (18) as well as that the person that
simulates eating registers intermittently its simulated satiety in the shape of graph points (32) from

                                                    8
the person's perception of satiety, when healthy satiety is achieved it adheres to the sigmoid
curve (26).
         A method according to the above feature, characterized by a training curve (28) that is
descending from the beginning to the end of a meal.
         A method according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic of an avatar (36),
which chews in a healthy pace shown on the virtual screen in order to control the simulated
chewing pace (34) of a person that simulates eating.
         A method according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic and/or sound of a
metronome controlling the person that simulates eating to chew in a healthy pace.
         A method according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic of an icon or another
graphic picture blinking/flashing and/or by sound controlling a person that simulates eating to
chew in a healthy pace.
         A device adapted to practice simulated eating from a real first screen (10) for persons in
need of a regulated eating technique, which illustrates the intake of a meal from beginning to end,
characterized by comprising: means for creating of graphic screen images on said first real screen
(10) for a virtual meal that is shown graphically on a second virtual screen (18) adapted to register
eating pace through graphics on an apparatus (12) on said first real screen (10) on the virtual
screen (18) for a person that is utilizing the program for virtual-eating from a graphic of china (20)
with food placed on a scale (16), which registers when virtual food is taken in, said food being
registered against a training curve (28) of eating pace on the virtual screen (18); a data base with
different meals to be selected by a person as a course for a simulated meal; means for creating a
real time curve (30) on the virtual screen (18) that shows a persons simulated eating pace as well
as the amount of food eaten during said simulation of a meal, said healthy acceptable meal real
eating pace, said (30) should adhere to the training curve (28) of eating pace; and means for
addressing simulated chewing (34) of food through the guidance of visual feedback from the
virtual screen (18), by a person that simulates eating, which results in a compulsory release of
stomach and intestinal hormones, and the experience of satiety in the person, which becomes
taught to eat healthy through simulation.
         A device according to the above feature, characterized by a training curve for satiety in
the shape of a sigmoid-curve (26) shown on the virtual screen (18) as well as the person that
simulates eating registers the simulated satiety intermittently in the shape of points on a graph
(32) from the person's perception of satiety, when healthy satiety is achieved it adheres to the
sigmoid-curve (26).
         A device according to the above feature, characterized by that said training curve (28) is
descending from the beginning to the end of the meal.
         A device according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic of an avatar
(36),which chews in a healthy pace that is shown on the virtual screen (18) in order to control the
virtual-chewing pace of the person that simulates eating.

                                                   9
        A device according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic and/or sound of a
metronome controlling the person that simulates eating to chew at a healthy pace.
        A device according to the above feature, characterized by a graphic of an icon or another
graphic of a picture blinking/flashing and/or by sound controlling a person that simulates eating to
chew at a healthy pace.

                                                  10
CLAIMS:
1.       A method to simulate eating to cause a release of stomach and intestinal hormones and a
sensation of satiety in a user, said method comprising:
         providing a display screen and a user input;
         providing a database of food and meal options;
         displaying said food and meal options to a user on the display screen;
         receiving a user input to select a meal;
         displaying on the display screen the meal selected by the user;
         receiving user inputs to simulate eating the meal;
         providing feedback to a user on the display screen, the feedback including simulated
eating pace and simulated amount of food eaten; and
         simultaneously providing the user, via graphics and/or sound, with a guidance for a
healthy chewing pace.
2.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the display screen further displays:
         a virtual screen;
         a virtual scale;
         a virtual plate or other china item; and
         virtual cutlery.
3.       The method according to claim 2, wherein the meal selected by the user is placed on the
virtual plate or china item by the user through the user input and the amount of food on the virtual
plate or china item is virtually weighed by the virtual scale and the weight is displayed on the
virtual screen.
4.       The method according to any one of the previous claims, wherein a real time curve of the
user' eating pace and a training curve of healthy acceptable eating pace are displayed on the
screen.
5.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the user registers
information relating to their feeling of satiety via the user input, preferably on a scale on the
display screen.
6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein the satiety information registered by the user
and a training curve of desirable satiety in the shape of a sigmoid-curve are displayed on the
screen.

                                                  11
7.       The method according to claim 4 or 6, when dependent from claim 2 or 3, wherein the
eating pace and satiety curves are displayed on the virtual screen of the display screen.
8.       The method according to any one of the previous claims, wherein the user input includes
a mouse, a means for clicking on an image or a touch input for touching images displayed on the
display screen.
9.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the display screen
displays an avatar which chews at a healthy pace to provide the user with said guidance.
10.      The method according to claim 9, wherein the avatar is a graphical representation of the
user or a character selected by a user, in the form of a 3D image or 2D icon.
11.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of:
         a graphic of a metronome;
         a sound of a metronome;
         a graphic of and icon or other picture showing blinking/flashing; and
         a sound,
         provides the guidance for a healthy chewing pace to the user.
12.      A device adapted to perform the method of any one of the previous claims.
13.      The device according to claim 12, comprising:
         a display screen;
         a user input;
         means for creating graphic images on the display screen;
         a database of meals to be selected by the user;
         means to create a real time curve; and
         means for providing visual feedback to the user showing a healthy chewing pace.
14.      The device according to claim 13, wherein the user input includes a mouse, a means for
clicking on an image or a touch input for touching images displayed on the display screen.
15.      The device according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the display screen is a television screen
or a smart phone screen.
                                         MANDOMETER AB
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P39890AU02

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
