                                              - 12
   ABSTRACT
   Openings or penetrations in the cast concrete floors of multi-storey buildings are potential
   hazards in that workers can fall through such openings. The invention provides a robust
 5 solution to this problem by providing formwork that can be used to create the openings or
   penetrations which themselves include a built-in safety barrier that prevents people falling
   through the openings. The safety barriers can be cast into the concrete floor along with the
   formwork, providing an effective safety barrier that is in place before the opening or
   penetration is even produced in the concrete floor. The nature of the safety barrier which
10 can be formed from reinforcing mesh or other metal bars can be easily cut or modified when
   required to allow pipework, ducting, or other services to pass through the openings.

         FIGURE 1
"144
         si
         FIGURE 2
     7(       r61
        6F
         FIGURE 3

                                                  -1
   Formworkfor Creating Penetrations or Openings in Concrete Floor Structures
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   This invention relates to formwork for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor
   structures, and in particular, but not exclusively to formwork for creating penetrations or
 5 openings in the concrete floor structures of multi-story buildings to allow building services
   to run between floors.
   BACKGROUND
   During the construction of multi-story buildings it is usually necessary to provide openings
   in the floor structure of the various floors to allow building services such as plumbing,
10 electrical wiring, air conditioning ducts to run between floors.            These openings or
   penetrations in the floor structure are typically rectangular and typically have a size of about
   four hundred millimetres by six hundred millimetres.
   During the on-going construction process, these opening or penetrations often present a
   safety hazard in that tools or other objects can be dropped through the openings, or a person
15 can fall through an opening or at least into an opening. Over the years these openings have
   been the cause of many accidents on building sites.
   While it is possible to provide safety rails, covers or guards to minimise the danger after
   the floors have been cast, there remains a danger during the intervening period between
   pouring the concrete floor and before the safety measures are put in place. And in any case,
20 it can be expensive and time consuming to install these safety measures.
   What is needed is a solution to this problem that is quick and easy to install and is low cost,
   and which provides safety from the moment the floor is cast.
   In this specification unless the contrary is expressly stated, where a document, act or item
   of knowledge is referred to or discussed, this reference or discussion is not an admission
25 that the document, act or item of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority
   date, publicly available, known to the public, part of common general knowledge; or known
   to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.

                                                 -2
   OBJECT
   It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide formwork for creating
   penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures which will at least go some way
   towards overcoming one or more of the above mentioned problems, or at least provide the
 5 public with a useful choice.
   STATEMENTS OF THE INVENTION
   Accordingly, in a first aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in a formwork
   component for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures, the formwork
   component comprising a safety barrier and one or more sidewall members, the side wall
10 members each having inner faces, and;
       e   the inner faces of the or each side wall member define an opening in a concrete floor
           structure,
       *   the or each sidewall member is configured to prevent a wet concrete mix from
           entering the defined opening during the pouring of the concrete floor structure, and
15     e   the safety barrier spans across the defined opening between opposing inner faces of
           the or each sidewall member, and
       *   the safety barrier is configured to minimise the possibility that a human body could
           pass through the defined opening.
   Preferably the safety barrier comprises one or more safety members.
20 Preferably the defined opening is a rectangular opening.
   Preferably the formwork component has four sidewall components and the four sidewall
   components are joined to form a rectangle.
   Preferably the or each sidewall member is configured to remain as a permanent edging of
   the defined opening after the concrete floor structure has cured.
25 Preferably the or each side wall member has a substantially "L" or "C" shaped cross section.

                                                 -3
   Preferably the or each side wall member is made in two parts, comprising an upper member
   and a lower member.
   Preferably the or each upper member has a substantially "C" shaped cross section and the
   or each lower member has a substantially "L" shaped cross section.
 5 Preferably the or each upper member is welded to the or each lower member.
   Preferably the or each safety member extends through the or each side wall member.
   Preferably the or each safety member extends through the or each side wall member in a
   direction away from the defined opening by at least fifty millimetres.
   Preferably the or each safety member extends through the or each side wall member in a
10 plane adjacent to a plane defined by ajoin between the upper member and the lower member
   of the or each sidewall member.
   Preferably the or each safety member is made from a section of mesh material.
   Preferably the mesh material is a welded reinforcement mesh material.
   Preferably an edge of the or each upper member or the or each lower member is provided
15 with slots to accommodate the mesh material.
   Optionally the or each safety member is made from a section of metal grating material.
   Optionally the safety barrier is fastened to the inner faces of the or each sidewall member.
   In a second aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in formwork for
   constructing a building, or a part of a building, incorporating at least one forinwork
20 component for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures substantially
   as specified herein.
   In a third aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a building incorporating at
   least one at least one formwork component for creating penetrations or openings in concrete
   floor structures substantially as specified herein.

                                                 -4
   The invention may also broadly be said to consist in the parts, elements and features referred
   to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, and any
   or all combinations of any two or more of the parts, elements or features, and where specific
   integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents, such equivalents are
 5 incorporated herein as if they were individually set forth.
   DESCRIPTION
   Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following
   description which is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying
10 drawings in which:
            FIGURE 1 is a perspective view of a first example of a formwork component for
                         creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures,
            FIGURE 2 is a cross sectional view of the first example of the formwork for
                         creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures,
15          FIGURE 3 is a cross sectional view of a second example of a formwork component
                         for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures, and
            FIGURE 4 is a cross sectional view of a third example of a formwork component
                         for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures.
   FirstExample
20 With reference to Figures 1 to 2, a first example of a formwork component (11) according
   to the present invention will now be described. The formwork component (11) has been
   designed for use in producing openings or penetrations in a cast concrete floor structure or
   similar cast concrete slab (12), and has the advantage that is provides a cast in safety barrier
   (13) right from the time that the concrete is poured to form the concrete floor structure (12)
25 or slab within which the formwork component (11) is fitted.

                                                -5
   The formwork component (11) becomes a part of the formwork that is used to create the
   poured concrete floor structure (12) of a multi-story building, and is used to produce an
   opening or penetration in the floor structure through which building services can pass. The
   formwork component (11) is designed and constructed in such a manner that sidewall
 5 members (15) of the formwork component (11) become a permanent edging for the defined
   opening in the floor structure of a building when the concrete of the floor structure has
   cured.
   In this example, the formwork component (11) has four sidewall members (15) that each
   have inner faces (17), and the inner faces (17) define an opening (19) in a concrete floor
10 structure. And the four sidewall members (15) are configured to prevent a wet concrete
   mix from entering the defined opening (19) during the pouring of the concrete floor
   structure.
   As noted above, the formwork component (11) also has a safety barrier (13) that spans
   between opposing sidewall members (15)          and which is configured to minimise the
15 possibility that a human body could pass through the defined opening, or to prevent the
   passage of a human body through the defined opening. In this example, the safety barrier
   (13) comprises a single safety member (21) in the form of a section or panel of welded
   reinforcement mesh material. The welded reinforcement mesh material in this example
   comprises SL81 square reinforcing mesh which is made using 7.6 millimetre diameter steel
20 wire, with a 100 millimetre distance between wire centres.
   The formwork component (11) has four sidewall members (15) and the four sidewall
   components are joined to form a rectangle, and the defined opening (19) created using the
   formwork component (11) is a rectangular opening.
   Each side wall member (15) is made from folded galvanised sheet steel material and has a
25 substantially "L" shaped cross section. In this example each side wall member (15) is made
   in two parts, comprising an upper member (23) and a lower member (25). Each upper
   member (23) has a substantially "C" shaped cross section and each lower member (25) has
   a substantially "L" shaped cross section.

                                               -6
   The height and width of the lower members (25) is approximately four times larger than
   the height and width of the upper members (23).         The overall height of the sidewall
   members (15) is typically in the range of one hundred and fifty to two hundred and fifty
   millimetres high. The overall width of the sidewall members (15) is typically in the range
 5 of eighty to one hundred and fifty millimetres wide.
   A lower edge (27) of each upper member (23) is provided with slots (29) (not shown) to
   accommodate the bars of the mesh material. Each upper member (23) is welded to each
   lower member (25) and in this way the mesh material is captured within the structure of the
   sidewall members (15).
10 The safety member (21) extends through the side wall members (15) in a plane adjacent to
   a plane defined by a join between the upper member and the lower member of the sidewall
   member (15). The mesh of the safety member (21) lies about thirty to eighty millimetres
   below an upper edge (31) of the sidewall members (15), and usually about fifty millimetres
   below the upper edge (31).
15 The safety member (21) occupies the full area of the defined opening (19) and extends
   through each side wall member (15). In this example, the openings in the mesh forming
   the safety member (21) are square openings approximately ninety three millimetres by
   ninety three millimetres in size which are adequate to prevent the passage of a human body
   through an opening in a cast concrete floor structure in which the formwork component
20 (11) is installed.
   The reinforcing mesh of the safety member (21) extends through each side wall member
   (15) in a direction away from the defined opening by at least fifty millimetres, and
   preferably by one hundred to two hundred millimetres. This allows the reinforcing mesh
   of the safety member (21) to become structurally embedded in the cast concrete floor
25 structure in which the formwork component (11) is installed, and provides rigid support for
   the safety member (21) about its entire perimeter. The cast-in-situ design also prevents the
   safety member (21) from being inadvertently removed or from falling out. In addition, the
   safety member (21) is installed during the process of making the opening in the cast
   concrete floor meaning that the opening is never left open right from the creation of the
30 opening for maximum safety to the construction workers involved.

                                                  -7
   The safety barrier (13) can later be cut to form larger holes as required to allow pipes or
   ducting to be fitted through the opening. The use of reinforcing mesh allows many building
   services for example wiring to pass though the safety barrier (13) due to the generous size
   of the holes in the mesh, and in addition, the use of reinforcing mesh means that larger holes
 5 can be cut relatively easily when needed to install larger pipes or ducts, as the wire of the
   mesh can be cut quickly using bolt cutters or similar cutting apparatus.
   Additional safety means, for example a plywood panel can be fitted over the mesh of the
   safety barrier (13) to further increase the safety provided by the barrier by helping to prevent
   ankle twists, or by preventing small objects from falling though the openings onto workers
10 or staff below.
   Second Example
   With reference to Figure 3, a second example of a formwork component (61) according to
   the present invention will now be described. As with the first example described herein,
   the formwork component (61) has been designed for use in producing openings or
15 penetrations in a cast concrete floor structure or similar cast concrete slab.
   The formwork component (61) also becomes a part of the formwork that is used to create
   the poured concrete floor structure of a multi-story building, and is used to produce an
   opening or penetration in the floor structure through which building services can pass. The
   formwork component (61) is designed and constructed in such a manner that sidewall
20 members (63) of the formwork component (61) become a permanent edging for a defined
   opening (65) in the floor structure of a building when the concrete of the floor structure has
   cured.
   In this second example, a safety barrier (67) is in the form of a section of welded mesh or
   grating material that is sized to fit inside the defined opening (65). The safety barrier (67)
25 is fastened to inner faces (69) of each sidewall member (63). A ledge (71) is formed on
   each inner face (69) of each sidewall member (63) using a section of angle iron (73) that is
   fastened by welding, bolting or riveting, to the inner faces (69) of the sidewall members
   (63). And the safety barrier (67) rests on the ledge (71) and is fastened to the ledge (71)
   using threaded fasteners and clamps or welds.

   Third Example
   With reference to Figure 4, a third example of a formwork component (81) according to
   the present invention will now be described.        As with the first and second examples
   described herein, the formwork component (81) has been designed for use in producing
 5 openings or penetrations in a cast concrete floor structure or similar cast concrete slab.
   The formwork component (81) also becomes a part of the formwork that is used to create
   the poured concrete floor structure of a multi-story building, and is used to produce an
   opening or penetration in the floor structure through which building services can pass. The
   formwork component (81) is designed and constructed in such a manner that sidewall
10 members (83) of the formwork component (81) become a permanent edging for a defined
   opening (85) in the floor structure of a building when the concrete of the floor structure has
   cured.
   In this second example, a safety barrier (87) is in the form of a section of grating material
   that is sized to fit inside the defined opening (85). The safety barrier (87) rests on, or is
15 fastened to, a ledge (89) that extends about the periphery of the defined opening (85). The
   ledge (89) is formed in the sidewall members (83) by joggling a step feature (91) into the
   vertical portion of each sidewall member (83). The grating material of the safety barrier
   (87) fits snuggly into the area defined by the outside dimensions of the area defined by the
   step features (91) of each sidewall member (83).
20
   VARIATIONS
   Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and it should
   be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing
   from the scope thereof.
25 In the first example described herein, the formwork component (11) comprises four side
   wall members (15) forming a rectangular shape. However, in an alternative configuration,
   it is envisaged that the formwork component (11) could comprise a single circular or curved
   sidewall member, two curved members, three forming a triangular opening, or any number

                                                -9
   of sidewall members forming any shape.         The essence of the invention is a formwork
   component that can be used to create an opening or penetration in a cast concrete structure,
   and to provide a safety barrier within that opening right from the time that the opening is
   formed.
 5 The examples described herein include just one safety barrier (13) member in the form of a
   mesh panel, however, it is envisaged that an alternative embodiment of the formwork
   components could include multiple safety barrier members, for example a number of safety
   members in the form of individual bars.
   In the first and third examples described herein the sidewall members (15) and (83) have a
10 substantially "L" shaped cross section.     However it is envisaged that in an alternative
   embodiment the sidewall members could have a substantially "C" or "I" shaped cross
   section.
   As an option to the use of reinforcing mesh to create a safety barrier, a range of other barrier
   materials could be used, for example a section of metal grating material, or nylon webbing
15 material, etc. The choice may be determined by how often persons may be expected to
   stand on or near the opening, for example when carrying out installations during the
   construction of the building, and/or maintenance to services passing through the opening
   during the life of the building.
   In the first example described herein, slots (29) are provided in the lower edge (27) of the
20 upper member (23). However, in an alternative configuration it is envisaged that the slots
   could be provided in an upper edge of the lower members (25), or in both the upper and
   lower members.
   DEFINITIONS
25 Throughout this specification the word "comprise" and variations of that word, such as
   "comprises" and "comprising", are not intended to exclude other additives, components,
   integers or steps.

                                              - 10
  ADVANTAGES
  Thus it can be seen that at least the preferred form of the invention provides a formwork
  component for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor structures which;
5    e   provides safety from the moment that the opening is created,
     e   can be permanently installed for safety throughout the life of the building, and
     *   which can easily be cut or modified to allow pipework, ducting, wiring conduits etc.
         to be installed when necessary during the construction process.

                                                 - 11
    CLAIMS
       1. A formwork component for creating penetrations or openings in concrete floor
           structures, the formwork component comprising a safety barrier and one or more
           sidewall members, the side wall members each having inner faces, and;
  5            *   the inner faces of the or each side wall member define an opening in a
                   concrete floor structure,
               e   the or each sidewall member is configured to prevent a wet concrete mix
                   from entering the defined opening during the pouring of the concrete floor
                   structure, and
 10            *   the safety barrier spans across the defined opening between opposing inner
                   faces of the or each sidewall member, and
               *   the safety barrier is configured to minimise the possibility that a human body
                   could pass through the defined opening.
      2. A formwork component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the or each sidewall member
15        is configured to remain as a permanent edging of the defined opening after the
          concrete floor structure has cured.
      3. A formwork component as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the or each side
          wall member is made in two parts, comprising an upper member and a lower
          member.
20    4. A formwork component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the safety
          barrier comprises one or more safety members, and the or each safety member
          extends through the or each side wall member.
      5. A formwork component as claimed in claim 4, wherein the or each safety member
          is made from a section of mesh material.
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
