                                             ABSTRACT
        The invention relates to an artificial airway device (1) to facilitate lung ventilation of a
patient, comprising an airway tube (2), a gastric drain tube (3) and a mask (4) at one end of the
airway tube (2), the mask (4) including a backplate (5) and having a peripheral fonnation (6)
capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal inlet, the peripheral
formation (6) surrounding a hollow interior space (7) or lumen of the mask (4) and the airway
tube (2) opening into the lumen of the mask, wherein the mask includes an atrium (8) for
passage to the gastric drain tube (3) of gastric matter leaving the oesophagus.

                                  ARTIFICIAL AIRWAY DEVICE
   The present invention relates to an artificial airway device, and in particular to such a device
 5 which seeks to provide protection against gastric reflux.
   For at least seventy years, endotracheal tubes comprising a long slender tube with an
   inflatable balloon disposed near the tube's distal end have been used for establishing airways
   in unconscious patients. In operation, the endotracheal tube's distal end is inserted through the
10 mouth of the patient, into the patient's trachea. Once positioned, the balloon is inflated so as to
   form a seal with the interior lining of the trachea. After this seal is established, positive
   pressure may be applied to the tube's proximal end to ventilate the patient's lungs. Also, the
   seal between the balloon and the inner lining of the trachea protects the lungs from aspiration
   (e.g., the seal prevents material regurgitated from the stomach from being aspirated into the
15 patient's lungs).
   Although they have been successful, endotracheal tubes suffer from several major
   disadvantages. The principal disadvantage of the endotracheal tube relates to the difficulty of
   properly inserting the tube. Inserting an endotracheal tube into a patient is a procedure that
20 requires a high degree of skill. Also, even for skilled practitioners, insertion of an
   endotracheal tube is sometimes difficult or not possible. In many instances, the difficulty of
   inserting endotracheal tubes has tragically led to the death of a patient because it was not
   possible to establish an airway in the patient with sufficient rapidity. Also, inserting an
   endotracheal tube normally requires manipulation of the patient's head and neck and further
25 requires the patient's jaw to be forcibly opened widely. These necessary manipulations make

                                                      2
    it difficult, or undesirable, to insert an endotracheal tube into a patient who may be suffering
    from a neck injury.
    The laryngeal mask airway device is a well known device that is useful for establishing
 5  airways in unconscious patients, and which seeks to address the above-described drawbacks
    associated with endotracheal tubes.
    In contrast to the endotracheal tube, it is relatively easy to insert a laryngeal mask airway
    device into a patient and thereby establish an airway. Also, the laryngeal mask airway device
10  is a "forgiving" device in that even if it is inserted improperly, it still tends to establish an
    airway. Accordingly, the laryngeal mask airway device is often thought of as a "life saving"
    device. Also, the laryngeal mask airway device may be inserted with only relatively minor
   manipulation of the patient's head, neck and jaw. Further, the laryngeal mask airway device
   provides ventilation of the patient's lungs without requiring contact with the sensitive inner
15 lining of the trachea and the internal diameter of the airway tube is typically significantly
   larger than that of the endotracheal tube. Also, the laryngeal mask airway device does not
   interfere with coughing to the same extent as endotracheal tubes. Largely due to these
   advantages, the laryngeal mask airway device has enjoyed increasing popularity in recent
   years.
20
   U.S. Patent No. 4,509,514 describes a laryngeal mask airway device which consists of the
   basic parts which make up most if not all laryngeal mask airway devices, namely an airway
   tube opening at one end into the interior of a hollow mask portion shaped to fit readily behind

                                                     3
      the larynx of a patient. The periphery of the mask is formed by a cuff which in use forms a
      seal around the opening of the larynx. This enables the airway to be established effectively.
     Laryngeal mask airway devices with specific provision for gastric-discharge drainage have
  5  been developed, as exemplified by U.S. Pat. No. 4,995,388 (Figs. 7 to 10); U.S. Pat. No.
     5,241,956; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,355,879. These devices generally incorporate a small-diameter
     drainage tube having an end located at the distal end of the mask, so as to lie against the upper
     end of the upper oesophageal sphincter when the mask is in place, the tube being of sufficient
     length to extend out of the mouth of the patient to enable active or passive removal of gastric
 10  discharge from the upper oesophageal sphincter. According to alternative proposals, the
     drainage tube may extend beyond the distal end of the mask, into the oesophagus itself (U.S.
    Pat. No. 4,995,388, Figs. 7 and 11).
    Such devices are generally useful in providing for extraction of regurgitated matter, but are
15  still not always fully effective in preventing aspiration of gastric contents into the patient's
    lungs. In particular, where the gastric discharge is as a result of the patient vomiting, rather
    than merely from regurgitation of the gastric matter, the substantial pressure of the vomited
    matter may in certain cases be enough to dislodge the mask altogether, even where a drainage
    tube is provided, potentially affecting the integrity of the artificial airway and/or resulting in
20  the vomited matter being aspirated into the lungs of the patient.
    As will be appreciated, the potential for the mask to become dislodged under vomiting is also
    inherent in masks such as that disclosed by U.S. Patent No. 4,509,514, which do not feature a
    drainage tube.

                                                      4
     Particularly where a mask does not provide for gastric drainage, and even where a gastric
     drainage tube is provided, there is even a risk of a potentially fatal build up of pressure in the
     esophagus if vomited matter cannot be effectively vented from the oesophagus, which might
  5  for example occur if the mask becomes jammed in the pharynx.
     Previous laryngeal masks designed for example according to U.S. patent. No. 4,995,388 (Figs.
     7 to 10); U.S. patent. No. 5,241,956; and U.S. patent. No. 5,355,879 provided channels to
    accept regurgitant fluids arising from the oesophagus in which the diameter of the channels is
 10  approximately constant and equivalent to the diameter of the constricted area of the anatomy
    known as the upper oesophageal sphincter. Such devices, once pressed against the sphinctral
    region provide conditions in which liquids arising from the oesophagus maintain approximately
    the same velocity as they pass through the tube of the device. Such devices, when correctly
    positioned, mimic the anatomy of the sphincter, but not that of the esophagus,           in which
15  conditions of lower flow and therefore of higher pressure prevail during reflux of fluids.
    Such a position of the device may be undesirable however, because the principal object of such
    devices having a drainage tube communicating with the esophageal opening is to avoid leakage
    of any gastric fluids arising from the oesophagus from leaking around the sides of the device,
    because such leakage risks contamination of the larynx by these fluids with consequent grave
20  risk to the patient.
    Furthermore, existing devices provided with gastric drainage tubes do not have tubes with a
    diameter as great as that of the esophageal sphincter and therefore can only offer an increase in
    velocity of fluids entering the drainage tube, which as seen above results in a reduced pressure in

                                                      5
     the narrower tube, which will tend to cause fluids from the higher pressure region to force
  5  the distal end of the device away from the sphincter.
     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
     considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
     general knowledge in the field.
     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
 10  disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims,
     the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
    sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
    "including, but not limited to".
15  According to the invention there is provided an artificial airway device to facilitate
    lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a mask at
    one end of the at least one airway tube, the mask including a backplate and having a
    peripheral formation capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the
    laryngeal inlet, the peripheral formation surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of
20  the mask and the airway tube opening into the lumen of the mask, wherein the mask
    includes an atrium for passage to the gastric drain tube of gastric matter leaving the
    oesophagus. As will be appreciated, the atrium provides an enlarged space or conduit that
    potentially substantially reduces the risk of the mask becoming dislodged on the
    occurrence of regurgitation or vomiting of matter, allowing the integrity of the airway
25  to be maintained, and thereby potentially greatly minimises the risk of gastric
    insuflation.
    It is preferred that the atrium is defined by a part of the backplate, and in particular that
    the defining part is a wall of the backplate. This provides a compact construction that
    utilises existing mask structures to provide the gastric conduit. The wall may comprise an
30  outer skin and an inner skin, the atrium being formed between the skins and the skins
    may be formed from a resiliently defornable material that is softer in durometer than the
    material of the airway tube to aid in insertion.

                                                       6
      In a particularly preferred embodiment the outer skin comprises a part of the gastric drain tube
      and the inner skin comprises a part of the airway tube, which again utilises existing structures.
      The said part of the gastric drain tube may be an integrally formed part thereof, to assist in
   5 manufacture and the said part of the airway tube may include a bore in fluid communication
      with the lumen of the mask.
      Conventionally in laryngeal mask construction the gastric drain is provided as a tube within
      the airway tube, chiefly because it has been felt to be most important to retain as large a bore
 10   as possible for passage of gasses whilst also providing a compact structure to fit within the
      anatomy. In the present instance it has been found unexpectedly that the airway tube can be
      disposed within the gastric drain tube without loss of performance as an airway, and with the
      added benefit that a larger gastric drain conduit, and even more than one gastric drain conduit
     can be provided. In one embodiment of the invention the airway tube may be disposed to
 15  establish a separation of the space within the gastric drain tube into two gastric conduits.
     According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an artificial airway device to
     facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a
     mask at one end of the at least one airway tube, the mask including a backplate and having a
20   peripheral formation capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal
     inlet, the peripheral formation surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of the mask and
     the airway tube opening into the lumen of the mask, the device being adapted to allow for a
     visual inspection of its contents when the device is removed form the patient. This may be

                                                           7
           achieved by the provision of a transparent or even translucent backplate outer wall skin. This
          enables a user to easily discover the cause of a blockage.
          According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided an artificial airway device to
     5    facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a
         mask at one end of the airway tube, the mask including a backplate, gastric drainage conduit
         and having a peripheral formation capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the
         laryngeal inlet, the peripheral formation surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of the
         mask and the airway tube opening into the lumen of the mask, the gastric drainage conduit
   10    including an inlet, the mouth of the inlet being formed such that it is disposed substantially
         normal to the axis of die oesophageal sphincter of the patient when the device is in situ. This
         helps achieve a more effective seal with the oesophageal sphincter.
        Thus the advantages of the above described arrangements include, for example, less
  15    complicated manufacturing than in prior structures that include tubes or tubular formations in
        the backplate. Furthermore, the stiffness of the backplate is reduced when compared to
        previous structures involving backplate tubes, thus aiding ease of insertion. Having the
        conduit provided by the backplate in this manner also provides a conduit of large and
       expandable volume such that displacement of the device under vomiting is less likely to
 20    occur, particularly where the outer skin, or both skins of the conduit are formed from a softly
       pliant resiliently deformable material.
       The device may include a plurality of gastric drain tubes, each said tube being in fluid
       communication with the atrium. This allows for application of suction to one of the tubes, in
25     use. It is particularly preferred that the device includes two drain tubes. Where only a single

                                                     8
      gastric drain tube has been used in prior devices it has been found that damage to delicate
     structures of the anatomy such as the oesophageal sphincter can occur when suction is
     applied. In the present design, the presence of a plurality of gastric drain tubes ensures that
     when suction is applied to one tube to remove gastric material in the atrium, the other gastric
  5  tube allows air to be drawn into the atrium rather than the patient's anatomy,
     Where the device includes two gastric drain tubes it is preferred that the tubes are disposed in
     side by side relation with the airway tube therebetween, the drain tubes and airway tube
     together defining a pocket disposed to accommodate a patient's tongue when the device is in
10   use. This makes the device more comfortable for the patient. Where the airway tube
     comprises (as is desirable) a more rigid material than the drain tubes, the airway tube thus
     provides support to the drain tubes that may remove the need for a biteblock, thus again
     simplifying manufacturing and saving cost.
15  In an alternative embodiment, the device may comprise a single gastric drain tube in fluid
    communication with the atrium. It is preferred that the drain tube comprises a softly pliant
    collapsible material. The drain tube may be disposed on a surface of the airway tube, or
    around the airway tube, for support.
20  It is preferred that the peripheral formation comprises an inflatable cuff, or a non-inflatable
    cuff. It is further preferred that where the peripheral formation comprises an inflatable cuff,
    the backplate overlies the cuff and is bonded to it, such that on deflation the cuff may be
    collapsed upon it, thereby encouraging the cuff to pack flat.

                                                       9
       The invention will now further be described by way of example, with reference to the
       accompanying drawings, in which:
       Figure I is a ventral view of a device according to the invention;
   5
      Figure 2 is a dorsal view of the device of Figure 1;
      Figure 3 is a side view of the device of Figure 1;
 10   Figure 4 is schematic transverse sectional view of a part of a device according to the
      invention;
      Figure 5 is a longitudinal sectional view of the device of Figure 1;
 15   Figure 6 is an exploded view of the device of Figure 1;
     Figure 7 is a dorsal view of an alternative embodiment of device according to the invention;
     Figure 8 is a dorsal three quarter perspective view of a further alternative embodiment of
20   device according to the invention;
     Figure 9 is a longitudinal sectional view of the device of Figure 8;
     Figure 10 is a longitudinal sectional view of the device of Figure 8;
25
     Figures 10a to 10f are transverse sectional views taken along lines I to 6 in Figure 10;
     Figure 11 is an exploded view of the device of Figure 8;
30   Figure 12 is a front three quarter perspective view of a part of the device of Figure 8;

                                                       10
       Figure 13 is a plan view of the part of Figure 12;
      Figure 14 is a transverse sectional view along line X-X in Figure 13;
   5  Figure 15 is a rear three quarter perspective view of the part of Figure 12;
      Figure 16 is a rear end view of the part of Figure 12;
      Figure 17 is a front perspective view of a part of the device of Figure 8;
 10
      Figure 18 is a side view of the part of Figure 17;
      Figure 19 is an end view of the part of Figure 17;
 15   Figure 20 is a plan view of a part of the device of Figure 8;
      Figure 21 is a transverse sectional view along line Y-Y of Figure 20;
     Figure 22 is a longitudinal view along line Z-Z of Figure 20;
20
     Figure 23 is plan perspective view of the part of Figure 20;
     Figure 24 is an underplan perspective view of the part of Figure 20;
25   Figure 25 is a front end view of the part of Figure 20;
     Figure 26 is an underplan view of a part of the device of Figure 8;
     Figure 27 is a longitudinal sectional view along line A-A in Figure 26;
30
     Figure 28 is a transverse sectional view along line B-B in Figure 26;

                                                         11
         Figure 29 is a front view of the part of Figure 26;
         Figure 30 is a front perspective view of the part of Figure 26;
    5    Figure 31 is a plan perspective view of the part of Figure 26;
         Figure 32 is an underplan perspective view of the part of Figure 26; and
        Figure 33 is a rear perspective view of the part of Figure 26.
  10
        In the discussion of the following exemplary embodiments, like parts will generally be given
        the same reference numerals throughout the description.
        Referring to the drawings, there is illustrated an artificial airway device I to facilitate lung
 15    ventilation of a patient, comprising an airway tube 2, a gastric drain tube 3 and a mask 4 at
       one end of the airway tube 2, the mask 4 including a backplate 5 and having a peripheral
       formation 6 capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal inlet, the
       peripheral formation 6 surrounding a hollow interior space 7 or lumen of the mask 4 and the
       at least one airway tube 2 opening into the lumen of the mask, wherein the mask includes an
20     atrium 8 for passage to the gastric drain tube 3 of gastric matter leaving the esophagus.
       For convenience, the surface of the device illustrated in Figure 1 is herein referred to as the
       dorsal surface and the surface of the device illustrated in Figure 2, which is the opposite
       surface to that shown in Figure 1, is referred to as the ventral surface. In accordance with
25    standard practice, the part of the device 1 that in use will extend from the patient is referred to
      herein as the proximal end (in the sense that it is nearest the user) with the other end being
      referred to herein as the distal end.

                                                       12
      Referring in particular to Figures 1 to 6, the device 1 as illustrated includes two gastric drain
      tubes 3 disposed on either side of airway tube 2 and bonded thereto. It is preferable that the
      drain tubes 3 are formed from a sufficiently soft resiliently deformable material to be
  5   collapsible so that insertion of the device is made easier and also that the space within the
      anatomy required to accommodate the device in situ is minimised. As an example, the
      material of the gastric drain tubes 3 is preferably of 20 to 30 Shore durometer. Airway tube 2
      is formed from a more rigid material than the drain tubes 3 such that it is not collapsible and
     has a preformed fixed curve as illustrated in Figure 3. As an example, the airway tube 2 may
 10  be of 80 Shore durometer. It is bonded to the drain tubes such that a portion 2a of its length
     protrudes dorsally thereabove. As will be appreciated, this forms a hollow or pocket 2b on
     the ventral side. The drain tubes and airway tube may be fonned from any known suitable
     material.
 15  At its distal end, airway tube 2 is attached to mask 4. Airway tube 2 and mask 4 may be
     formed integrally or separately. It will be noted, particularly from Figures 5 and 6, that airway
    tube 2 terminates towards the proximal end of mask 4 at 2c. Thus mask 4 does not suffer in
    terms of being made too rigid by the material of the airway tube. Mask 4 includes a backplate
    5 that is formed integrally with drain tubes 3. One notable feature of the present invention is
20  the construction of the backplate. As the skilled worker will appreciate, the term "backplate",
    when used in the present technical field has come to denote that part of the mask that is
    surrounded by the cuff in the assembled device and which provides separation between the
    laryngeal and pharyngeal regions when the device is in situ in the patient. Supply of gas takes
    place through an aperture in the backplate via a fluid tight connection between the part of the

                                                           13
          backplate defining the aperture and the airway tube. In one known arrangement the backplate
          and airway tube are formed integrally which is a particularly convenient arrangement.
                                                                                                     In the
          prior art, backplates are generally bowl or dome shaped structures rather than flat
                                                                                                structures
          and the term is therefore not entirely descriptive of the shape.
    5
         In the presently described embodiment backplate 5 comprises inner and outer skins
                                                                                               Sa, 5b that
         together define a space therebetween, as shown schematically in Figure 4. The
                                                                                                 space so
         defined is atrium 8 from which proximally, drain tubes 3 lead off and distally, inlet 8a
                                                                                                    enters
         (as shown in Figure 2). Thus atrium 8 can be regarded as a manifold that connects the
                                                                                                    single
  10    gastric inlet 8a with the two gastric drain tubes 3, One method of constructing the
                                                                                                mask 4 is
        illustrated in Figure 6, from which it can be seen that the gastric drain tubes 3 and backplate
                                                                                                         5
        are integrally formed. It will be appreciated that in the illustrations the material from
                                                                                                   which
        the backplate 5 and drain tubes 3 are formed is transparent to aid in understanding of
                                                                                                       the
       construction of the device L,
 15
       As mentioned above, mask 4 includes peripheral formation 6 which in this embodiment takes
       the form of an inflatable cuff of generally known form. Cuff 6 includes an inflation line 6a at
       its proximal end and has a gastric inlet aperture 6b at its distal end that communicates via a
       bore with an inner aperture 6c (Figure 2). The bore is defined by a collapsible tube. Means
20     may be provided to keep the tube collapsed until the cuff is inflated, such as a press-stud or
      "ziplock" arrangement. Referring to the exploded view in Figure
                                                                              6, it can be seen that the
      dorsal surface of Cuff 6 is bonded to backplate 5 so that the material of the dorsal surface of
      the cuff 6 forms a bridge between the inner and outer skins Sa, 5b thus closing off the ventral
      side of atrium 8 except where gastric inlet aperture 6b enters the cuff. Thus it can be seen that

                                                          14
        gastric inlet 6b is in fluid communication with atrium 8 via aperture 6c. In an alternative
        method of construction the cuff 6 may be formed with a web across its aperture that itself
        forms the ventral surface of atrium 8.
   5 Referring now to Figure 7, there is illustrated an alternative embodiment of device 1. In this
       embodiment the device includes a single gastric drain 3 in the form of a softly pliant sleeve
       that terminates at its distal end in atrium 8, all other features of construction being the same as
       in the first described embodiment hereinabove.
 10   In use, the device I is inserted into a patient to establish an airway as with prior art devices.
      Insertion is effected to the point where gastric inlet aperture 6b meets the patient's
      oesophageal sphincter, thus establishing fluid communication therebetween. If vomiting or
      regurgitation occurs, as with previous gastric access laryngeal masks, the material from the
      oesophagus passes into gastric inlet aperture 6b. However, unlike with previous devices the
 15   material passes into the atrium 8 formed between the dual backplate skins 5a 5b, the volume
      of which is larger than the volume of the inlet aperture 6b. It will be appreciated that
      constructing a laryngeal mask with a backplate 5 in which is formed an atrium or conduit 8
     for gastric material is a highly efficient and economical way to use existing mask structures.
     Forming gastric drain tubes from an expandable material so that the space they occupy in the
20   anatomy is minimised until they are called upon to perform their function is advantageous
     because it makes insertion of the device easier and causes less trauma to the delicate
     structures of the anatomy when the device is in place, particularly if the device is left in place
     for an extended period. And still further advantages are obtained if these features are
     combined such that the atrium 8 is formed from the soft material of the gastric drain tubes

                                                      15
      makes because the mask, whilst being sufficiently soft to avoid trauma on insertion can yet
      provide a large volume atrium 8 that can expand under pressure of vomiting. Such expansion
      results in a dorsal deformation of the outer skin 5b resembling a dome (Figure 4) that acts like
      a spring against the back wall of the throat when the mask is in situ, forcing the cuff 6 against
  5   the larynx and thereby helping to maintain the device in its sealed state.
      Referring now to Figures 8 to 33, there is illustrated a further alternative embodiment of
      device 1 according to the invention. This embodiment differs from the previously described
      embodiment in a number of important respects as will be described. However it will be
 10   appreciated that the concepts which it embodies may be applied to the previously described
      embodiments and vice versa.
     Referring in particular to Figures 8 and 9, there is illustrated an artificial airway device 1 to
     facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an airway tube 2, a gastric drain tube 3 and
15   a mask 4 at one end of the airway tube 2, the mask 4 including a backplate 5 and having a
     peripheral formation 6 capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal
     inlet, the peripheral formation 6 surrounding a hollow interior space 7 or lumen of the mask 4
    and the at least one airway tube 2 opening into the lumen of the mask, wherein the mask
    includes an atrium 8 for passage to the gastric drain tube 3 of gastric matter leaving the
20  esophagus.
    It can be seen that the device I resembles other laryngeal mask airway devices. However,
    from the exploded view of Figure I1 it can be seen that the device I comprises three main
    parts, a gastric drain and airway tube and backplate combination part 100, an inner backplate

                                                       16
        wall 110, a peripheral formation 120, and two minor parts, an inlet ring 130 and a connector
        140.
       Referring now to Figures       26 to 33, the gastric drain and airway tube and backplate
   5   combination part 100 will be described. This combination part 100 consists of a precurved
       tube 101. The tube 101 is not circular in cross-section but has a flattened section, as taught in
       previous patents, for ease of insertion and fit through the interdental gap. The tube 101 has
       flattened dorsal and ventral surfaces 101a, 101b and curved side walls 101c extending from a
      proximal end 101d to a distal end 101e. Towards the proximal end 10ld on the dorsal surface
 10   there is disposed a fixation tab 102 and at the end is attached a plate 102a (Figure 33). Plate
       102a includes three apertures, two gastric apertures 102b either side of an airway aperture
      through which an airway conduit 107 extends. At its distal end the combination part 100 is cut
      at an angle relative to its longitudinal axis to provide a flared outer backplate part 104
      integrally formed therewith, for example by molding. As an alternative the flared backplate
 15   part 104 can be separately formed, in particular from a transparent or translucent material.
      The backplate part 104 includes a circumferential lip 104a. Finally, it will be noted that
      combination part 100 includes a substantially coaxially disposed inner tube extending from
     the distal end to the proximal end, the inner tube effectively establishing a separation of the
     inner space into two gastric conduits 106 and an airway conduit 107. It will be noted that
20   unlike in prior art constructions, this results in an airway conduit 107 contained within a
     gastric drain conduit. In the longitudinal sectional view shown in Figure 27 it can be seen that
     the airway conduit 107 terminates in a cylindrical connector extension 109 at its distal end.

                                                        17
         Referring now to Figures 20 to 25, there is illustrated inner backplate wall 110. Inner
         backplate wall 110 comprises a generally elliptical body in the form of a shallow dish
         including side wall 111 and floor 112. At the distal, or narrower end of the elliptical dish, side
         wall Ill has a cylindrical aperture 11 Ia formed therein that extends distally generally in line
   5    with the midline of the floor 112 . It will be noted that cylindrical aperture 11Ia is angled
        upwardly, relative to the plane of the floor 112 such that the angle of the axis of the bore of
        the cylindrical aperture is about 20 degrees relative thereto. Along its midline the floor 112 of
        the dish is raised to form a convex surface that extends longitudinally towards the wider,
       proximal end where it terminates in a cylindrical formation that may be referred to as a tube
 10    joint 113. Tube joint 113 includes bore 1 3a that provides a connecting passage between the
       upper and lower surfaces (as viewed) of floor 112. Tube joint 113 merges with and bisects
       side wall 111 and is angled upwardly at about 45 degrees relative to floor 112, terminating
       proximally some distance beyond the side wall Ill as shown in Figure 24.
 15   Referring now to Figures 12 to 16, there is illustrated peripheral formation 120 which in this
      embodiment takes the form of an inflatable cuff. It will be noted that unlike many other
      laryngeal mask airway devices the cuff 120 is formed integrally as a separate part from the
      rest of the device, making it easier both to manufacture and attach to the device 1. The cuff
      120 comprises a generally elliptical body with a narrower distal end 120a, a wider proximal
20    end 120b and a central elliptical through-aperture 120c. As such it will be appreciated that the
     cuff resembles a ring. As can be seen from the sectional view in Figure 14, the elliptical body
     comprises a wall 123 that is generally circular in section at the distal end but deeper and
     irregularly shaped at the proximal end by virtue of an integrally formed extension 121 formed
     on the dorsal surface at the proximal end 120b. This dorsal surface extension 121 defines the

                                                       is
       proximal portion of an attachment surface 122 (Figures I1 and 12). The attachment surface
       122 extends from the proximal end to the distal end around the entire dorsal inner
      circumference of the ring. At its distal end 120a the cuff has a cylindrical through bore 121
      the axis of which extends in line with the midline of the ellipse and is angled upwardly as
  5   viewed in Figure 14 relative to the plane of the body, in other words from the ventral towards
      the dorsal side or when the device 1 is in use from the laryngeal to the pharyngeal side of the
      anatomy (L and P in Figure 14). The result is a circular section aperture through the cuff wall
      123. The proximal end 120b of the cuff includes a port 124 that lets into the interior of the
      bore and the cuff.
 10
      Referring now to Figures 17 to 19 there is illustrated inlet ring 130. Inlet ring 130 is a
      cylindrical section tube having a proximal end 131 cut normal relative to the axis "J"of bore
      132 of the tube. The distal end 133 is cut obliquely, relative to the axis "J"of the bore 132, the
     cut extending back from the ventral to the dorsal side as viewed. It will be seen that the
15   obliquely cut distal end 132 has a shallow curve, rather than being a straight cut. The wall of
     the cylinder includes minor open through bores 134 that extend the length of the cylinder and
     are open at each end.
    Figure 11 illustrates how the parts of device 1 fit together and is most usefully viewed in
20  combination with Figures 8 and 9. From these it can be seen that the combination part 100,
    and inner backplate wall 110 are combined to form the backplate 5, thus defining a conduit in
    the form of chamber or atrium 8 within the backplate 5. The peripheral part 120, in this
    embodiment an inflatable cuff, is attached to the backplate 5 by bonding to the attachment
    surface 122 such that the backplate 5 seats within it. The connector 130 is passed through the

                                                       19
        cylindrical bore 121 in the cuff wall and affixed therein in connection with the cylindrical
        aperture Il la.
       As mentioned, the embodiment of Figures 8 to 33 differs from prior art devices in a number
   5 of important respects. For example, in this device the airway tube 107 is contained within the
       gastric drain tube whereas in prior art devices the opposite is the case. It has been found that
       contrary to expectation it is most important in a device having a gastric tube that flow of
       gastric material should not be impeded, so that the seal formed around the upper oesophageal
       sphincter is not broken. This arrangement best utilises the available space within the anatomy
 10   to achieve this end. Similarly, the provision of an atrium 8 to receive gastric flow as opposed
      to the simple uniform section conduits of prior devices provides a mask that is in effect a
      hollow leak-free plug against the upper esophageal sphincter, with a low-flow high-volume
      escape route above it. The device I of this embodiment of the invention enables a user to get
      such a plug into place and hold it there whilst providing a sufficiently generous escape path
 15   for emerging fluids. Further still, it has been found that the provision of a gastric inlet port
     that is angled dorsally as described further aids in ensuring that the seal around the upper
     oesophageal sphincter remains intact even under heavy load, particularly when an atrium is
     provided directly upstream therefrom.
20   Thus, it can be seen that the above described embodiments address the problems of prior art
     devices in novel and inventive ways.
    Features of the above-described embodiments may be re-combined into further embodiments
    falling within the scope of the present invention. Further, the present invention is not limited

                                                       20
       to the exemplary materials and methods of construction outlined above in connection with the
       exemplary embodiments, and any suitable materials or methods of construction may be
      employed. For example, although the cuff may be formed using a sheet of soft flexible
      silicone rubber, other materials such as latex or PVC may be used. PVC as a material is
   5 particularly suited to embodiments intended for single use, whereas the use of silicone rubber
      is preferred although not essential for embodiments intended to be re-used in a number of
      medical procedures.
      Further, and as would be appreciated by the skilled person, various features of the present
 10   invention are applicable to a wide range of different laryngeal mask airway devices, and the
      invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiments of types of mask described above. For
      example, aspects of the invention may be applied to laryngeal mask airway devices featuring
      epiglotic elevator bars over the mask aperture, which bars are operable to lift the epiglottis of
     a patient away from the aperture upon insertion of an endotracheal tube or other
 15  longitudinally-extended element inserted through the airway tube so as to emerge into the
     hollow or lumen of the mask through the mask aperture. Aspects of the present invention may
     for example be applied to single or re-useable devices, devices featuring aperture bars or not,
     "intubating" devices which permit an endotracheal tube or similar to be introduced into the
     larynx via an airway tube of a mask, devices incorporating fiberoptic viewing devices and so
20   forth, without restriction or limitation on the scope of the present invention.
25

                                        21
                                       CLAMS
 5 1. An artificial airway device to facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an
      airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a mask at one end of the airway tube, the
      mask including a backplate and having a peripheral formation capable of forming
      a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal inlet, the peripheral formation
      surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of the mask and the airway tube
10    opening into the lumen of the mask, wherein the mask includes an atrium for
      passage to the drain tube of gastric matter leaving the oesophagus.
   2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the atrium is defined by the backplate,
15 3. A device according to claim 2, wherein the defining part is a wall of the backplate.
   4. A device according to claim 3, wherein the wall comprises an outer skin and an
      inner skin.
20 5. A device according to claim 4, wherein the atrium is formed between the skins.
   6. A device according to claim 4 or claim 5, the inner skin including an inlet to the
      atrium.
25 7. A device according to any of claims 4 to 6, wherein the skins are formed from a
      resiliently deformable material that is softer in durometer than the material of the
      airway tube.
   S. A device according to any of claims 4 to 7, the outer skin comprising a part of the
30    gastric drain tube, the inner skin comprising a part of the airway tube.

                                            22
    9.    A device according to claim 8, the part of the gastric drain tube being an integrally
          formed part thereof.
    10.   A device according to claim 8, the said part of the airway tube comprising a bore
 5        in fluid communication with the lumen of the mask.
    11.   A device according to any preceding claim, wherein the airway tube is disposed
          within the gastric drain tube.
10  12.   A device according to claim 11, wherein the airway tube establishes a separation
          of the space within the gastric drain tube into two gastric conduits.
     13.   A device according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the or each gastric drain tube
           comprises an expansible material.
15
     14.   An artificial airway device to facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an
           airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a mask at one end of the airway tube, the
           mask including a backplate and having a peripheral formation capable of forming
           a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal inlet, the peripheral formation
20         surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of the mask and the airway tube
           opening into the lumen of the mask, the device being adapted to allow for a visual
           inspection of its contents when the device is removed form the patient.
     15.   A device according to claim 14, the backplate being formed from an inner skin and
25          an outer skin, the outer skin comprising a transparent material.
      16.   An artificial airway device to facilitate lung ventilation of a patient, comprising an
            airway tube, a gastric drain tube and a mask at one end of the airway tube, the
            mask including a backplate, gastric drainage conduit and having a peripheral
 30         formation capable of forming a seal around the circumference of the laryngeal
            inlet, the peripheral formation surrounding a hollow interior space or lumen of the
            mask and the airway tube opening into the lumen of the mask, the gastric drainage

                                         23
       conduit including an inlet, the mouth of the inlet being formed such that it is
       disposed substantially normal to the axis of the esophageal sphincter of the
       patient when the device is in situ.
 5 17. A device according to claim 16, the gastric drainage conduit comprising an atrium.
   18. A device according to claim 17, wherein the atrium is defined by the backplate.
   19. A device according to claim 18, wherein the defining part is a wall of the
10     backplate.
   20. A device according to claim 19, wherein the wall comprises an outer skin and an
       inner skin.
15 21. A device according to claim 20, wherein the atrium is formed between the skins.
   22. A device according to claim 20, the inner skin including an inlet to the atrium.
   23. A device according to claim 20, wherein the skins are formed from a resiliently
20     deformable material that is softer in durometer than the material of the airway
       tube.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
