                                                                   Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
                                               ABSTRACT
         A patient care system has a medical pump for delivering a medicine to a patient, and
a processor in communication with the pump. The pump is configured to receive a first input
on whether the medicine is a critical medicine, and a second input on a trigger condition that
triggers a fail-operate mode for the critical medicine. The processor controls the medical
pump to operate in the fail-operate mode, where the fail-operate mode continues delivery of
the critical medicine when the trigger condition is triggered.
                                                13

                                                     1
                         Patient Care System for Critical Medications
                             CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
           [000]        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2013296555 (National Phase of PCT/US2013/052937) having a filing date of 21 July 2013. The
contents of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference in their
entireties.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           [001]       Infusion pumps are used for intravenous delivery of medicines such as
 insulin, analgesics, sedatives, vasopressors, heparin and anti-arrhythmics to patients. Correct
 delivery of these medications is important for avoiding adverse events, particularly in critically
 ill patients. Smart infusion pumps, which include drug libraries and integrated decision support
 software in their medication delivery systems, have decreased errors in administration of
 medications by incorporating features such as hard and soft alarm limits, clinician messaging,
 and medication barcode input. Smart pumps are also able to utilize electronic medical records
 and inputs customizable for specific care units to improve safety for individual patients. Other
 infusion systems have incorporated features for a specific disease, such as algorithms to change
 the rates of insulin delivery based on a patient's
 glucose level, or to offer procedures specifically for advanced cardiac life support.
           [0021       Yet, smart pumps are still subject to human programming errors and
 limited response times of busy clinicians. There remains a need to improve the ability for
 infusion pumps to provide safe delivery of medicines to patients, particularly in the case of
 critically ill patients where delivery of a medicine is life-sustaining.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           [0031       A patient care system has a medical pump for delivering a medicine to a
 patient, and a processor in communication with the pump. The pump is configured to receive a
 first input on whether the medicine is a critical medicine, and a second input on a trigger
 condition that triggers a fail-operate mode for the critical medicine. The processor controls the
 medical pump to operate in the fail-operate mode, where the fail-operate mode continues
 delivery of the critical medicine when the trigger condition is triggered.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           [0041       Each of the aspects and embodiments of the invention described herein
 can be used alone or in combination with one another. The aspects and embodiments will
 now be described with reference to the attached drawings.

                                                                       Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
         [005]       FIG. 1 shows an exemplary infusion pump in the art;
         [006]       FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of a typical medication delivery system;
         [007]       FIG. 3 is an exemplary flowchart of general infusion pump operation
known in the art;
         [008]       FIG. 4 is a flowchart of an exemplary fail-operate infusion pump in one
embodiment;
         [009]       FIG. 5 shows an exemplary drug input screen for a fail-operate medical
pump; and
         [0010]      FIG. 6 depicts an optional confirmation screen for an exemplary fail
operate mode.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
         [0011]       A method and system to allow infusion pumps to provide additional
safety factors based on the type of drug being infused is disclosed. For certain patients and in
certain care areas, the drug being infused is life-sustaining. In most failure or alarm modes of
infusion pumps, the pump is designed to display an alarm and stop infusing when a particular
condition is triggered in order to protect the patient from the failure. However, if the infusion
is life-sustaining, this cessation in the delivery of the drug - referred to as a "fail-stop"
condition in this disclosure - is likely to be more harmful than the potential risk of the alarm
condition itself. In the present invention, a "fail-operate" mode is provided in which the
pump continues infusing when the alarm condition is present. A clinician or pharmacist is
enabled to identify critical drugs used in critical infusions, allowing the medications to
sustain the patient while the alarm condition is present. The fail-operate mode, also referred
to as a "keep infusing" mode in this disclosure, may be chosen for a certain care area in a
hospital, and/or to be specific to a particular patient. This disclosure describes controls and
methods of use to provide the clinician with the capabilities to customize particular alarm
conditions to perform in a fail-operate mode rather than the normal fail-stop alarm condition
response.
         [0012]      FIG. 1 shows an exemplary infusion pump 100, which includes a
programming screen 110 and a cassette carriage 120 for loading an infusion administration
set or line. The programming screen 110 is a touch screen in this embodiment, which allows
                                                  2

                                                                     Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
a user to input or view various delivery data such as infusion settings and patient information.
In addition, a menu bar 130 at the bottom of screen 110 includes buttons with which a
professional caregiver may enter information or change a status regarding modes, settings,
logs, locks, and alarms.
        [0013]      FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic diagram 200 of a typical medication delivery
system, also referred to in the art as a medication management system. A caregiver 210
provides input through an input device 220, such as the programming screen 110 of FIG. 1,
to enter delivery information and adjust settings as needed. The input device 220 stores
information in a processor memory 230. A network interface 240, such as a Hospira
MedNetT M platform, may also input information to memory 230. For example, network
interface 240 may be in communication with a hospital information system or network,
which may include a medication administration record system, pharmacy information
system, or bar code-enabled point-of-care system. A processing logic system 250 utilizes
information from processing memory 230 to control medication delivery pump 260, which
infuses the desired fluids to the patient 270. The pump 260 may optionally include an
indicator light 280 and/or an audible alarm 290 to provide sensory output indicating, for
instance, when the infusion is in process or when an alarm condition occurs. The pump 260
may provide feedback to the logic system 250, such as with patient physiological parameters
or pump failure parameters, so that the logic system 250 can monitor for the presence of any
alarm thresholds.
        [0014]      FIG. 3 is a flowchart 300 illustrating a general method of operation of
smart infusion pumps known in the art. An infusion pump processor 310 receives drug
library input 312 including customizable alarm limits via a central network. An infusion
pump processor may also receive optional inputs such as basic patient data (e.g., weight, age)
at a point of care of the patient. A medical caregiver may also input the clinical care areas
(CCA) in which the pump is being used, in step 315. A caregiver then "fills the infusion
order" by electronically downloading pump programming parameters via the network and/or
manually programming the pump via the input device to deliver an infusion order for a
patient in step 320, and the medication is delivered in step 330. In step 340, the processor
checks whether an alarm condition is present. This alarm condition can be triggered when a
failure of the pump occurs, such as occlusion in the delivery line, air-in-line, or low battery.
                                                 3

                                                                      Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
Alarm threshold levels, such as for air in the infusion tubing, may be predetermined by the
pump manufacturer, customized by a physician, biomed, pharmacist or other caregiver or
they may be pre-set in the drug library. If the alarm condition is triggered, the pump stops
delivery of the medicine in step 350. When failure occurs, an alert 360 may be sent. The
alert may be in the form of an alarm sound or an electronic signal or message sent to a
caregiver or physician to respond to the alarm. If no alarm condition is present, delivery of
the drug continues.
         [0015]      Discontinuing delivery when a failure occurs, as in conventional smart
pumps, is designed to protect the patient from potential adverse consequences of a pump
"failure" or alarm condition. However, for critical drugs, discontinuing delivery may in fact
harm a patient and even be life-threatening. Moreover, clinicians may not be immediately
available to attend to a patient in such a case. Current infusion systems are designed to fail
stop, requiring critical, life-sustaining infusions to be carefully monitored by busy clinicians
to prevent potentially noisy, annoying nuisance alarms from stopping the infusion until the
alarm can be cleared.
         [0016]      FIG. 4 is a flowchart 400 of one embodiment of the present disclosure in
which a user is beneficially provided with an option to allow a drug to keep infusing in the
presence of an alarm condition. In step 410, a medical professional such as a pharmacist or
physician may identify or designate a drug in a drug library as a critical medicine. This input
may be performed by, for example, calling up the drug library, selecting the desired
medication, and clicking a toggle box associated with the medication to indicate that the drug
is a critical medicine. Alternatively, the input may be performed by a medical professional
or a caregiver through a touch screen on the pump, through keyboard or touch entry. One or
more drugs may be specified in this input step. In some embodiments, a possible list of
critical drugs may be provided by the drug library database, and the caregiver or medical
professional may select or confirm particular drugs from this list. The critical drug input is
then stored in memory as part of the drug library information. Critical drugs may include, for
example, anticoagulants (e.g., heparin), saline or other fluids for hydration, nutrient solutions,
and antibiotics. This selection of particular drugs in step 410 beneficially enables, via later
steps described below, customized care for an individual patient based on their medical
condition.
                                                  4

                                                                      Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
         [0017]      In step 420, trigger conditions at which a fail-operate mode are desired to
be activated for the critical drug are input by a medical professional such as a pharmacist or
physician. In some embodiments the trigger conditions may be standard alarm conditions,
which may include an occlusion, air-in-line, or low battery. The conditions may be selected
through, for example, a drop down menu in which a user selects to edit an alarm condition,
and an editing screen then provides a toggle box to engage the fail-operate mode for that
condition. In other embodiments the user may have the option to override all alarm
conditions. In yet further embodiments, the user may have the option to adjust threshold
values for the alarm, such as for an amount of air allowed to pass in the infusion line.
         [0018]      In step 430, drug library information 432, including the critical medicine
information 410 and trigger condition information 420, is programmed into the processor.
Optionally, patient data 434 may also be input, including the patient's medical history, recent
medical treatments, and medical conditions such as monitored or tested physiological
parameters related to critical drug infusions. The inputs 432 and 434, as well as subsequent
inputs of flowchart 400, are stored in the memory of the processor, which is in
communication with the infusion pump.
         [0019]      In step 440, a medical caregiver may also input one or more specific
clinical care areas (CCA) in which the selected drug(s) may be used as a critical infusion.
The ability to select or customize at the drug library particular CCA's in which the fail
operate mode is allowed for the critical drug enables further safety and customization for
patients. For example, a certain antibiotic may be life-sustaining in an emergency room
setting, while in a pediatric area it would be allowable to stop administration of the antibiotic
without creating a life-threatening situation to the patient.
         [0020]      In some embodiments, the identification of a particular drug as a critical
medicine in step 410 will automatically activate the fail-operate mode, when that drug is
delivered. In other embodiments, a professional caregiver - such as the pharmacist or
physician - may be allowed to choose whether to engage the fail-operate mode, as shown in
optional step 450. This option may be useful, for example, to allow a physician to choose the
fail-operate mode depending on the patient's condition. In some embodiments, the fail-stop
mode may remain the default mode, even when settings for a fail-operate mode have been
entered (e.g., in steps 410, 420, 440), unless activation of the fail-operate mode is confirmed
                                                  5

                                                                         Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
before delivery. The options of customizing the fail-operate mode for particular critical
drugs, for particular CCA's, and for particular patients, beneficially enables clinically
targeted selection of the fail-operate mode for critical infusions. Additionally, enabling the
physician to choose whether to engage the fail-operate mode provides even further safety to
the patient compared to current infusion systems which operate only by stopping infusion
when an alarm is triggered.
         [0021]      Still referring to FIG. 4, after the fail-operate conditions have been
established, the infusion pump is ready to deliver medication. Upon receiving an order, a
nurse programs the infuser to fill the order in step 460. During programming, the nurse may
be informed by the delivery pump that the drug is a critical drug, and may optionally be
presented with a confirmation screen in step 465 to confirm whether the infusion pump will
use the fail-operate mode. The confirmation process may include a listing of the alarm
conditions that will trigger the fail-operate mode. After filling the order, the medication is
delivered in step 470. If an alarm condition is detected during infusion, the processor's logic
system will determine in step 480 whether the alarm condition is one of the selected fail
operate trigger conditions. If the trigger condition is present, the infuser will provide an
indication in step 495 that the trigger condition has been activated, but will continue to infuse
if possible in step 490. Infusion typically will continue at the same rate as its existing rate.
If the pump is unable to continue delivery, for example because of a fully blocked infusion
line, it may be programmed to return to the fail-stop mode. In another embodiment, the
infusion may continue but at a reduced non-zero rate.
         [0022]      Various indicators may be utilized in step 495 to alert personnel when the
fail-operate mode is active. In some embodiments, triggering of the fail-operate mode may
initiate an audible alarm, such as a single tone or a melody, where the sound for the fail
operate mode is different from that of the normal fail-stop mode. This differentiation in
alarm sound beneficially alerts a caregiver that a fail-operate alarm condition exists, and that
delivery of the critical medication is continuing. In other embodiments, triggering of the fail
operate mode may activate an alert light on the pump, display a text message on the pump's
screen monitor, or send a signal or message notification to a clinician or a mobile
communication device carried by the clinician. One or more of the indicators described
                                                   6

                                                                     Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
herein may be used simultaneously. After the fail-operate mode has been engaged, the
caregiver may locally clear the cause of the alarm condition and continue the infusion.
        [0023]      FIG. 5 shows an exemplary drug library editing screen 500, such as might
appear on a display screen associated with a network interface such as a processor equipped
with Hospira MedNet TM software would occur in steps 410 and 420 of FIG. 4. Editing
screen 500 includes standard customizable fields, such as medication amount and dosing rate,
for the drug dopamine which is used in this example. In the embodiment of FIG. 5, editing
screen 500 includes a fail-operate input field 510 which allows the user to select "Enable
Keep Infusing Mode" to engage the fail-operate condition. Selection in this embodiment is
performed through marking a toggle box. In other embodiments, a user may be presented
with the choice of "Keep Infusing" and "Stop Infusing" modes, and asked to highlight their
desired choice, where the default may be shown as "Stop Infusing." The user can further
select one or more trigger alarm conditions in the subfield 520, which includes single air
bubble, air accumulator, proximal occlusion, distal occlusion, and depleted battery in this
example. This subfield 520 may be used, for example, in relation to step 420 of FIG. 4, and
may further include a subsequent screen to input values associated with a particular
condition. For example, after selecting "air accumulator," the system may prompt the user to
alter an allowable value of air accumulated, or to utilize a standard pre-set value.
        [0024]      FIG. 6 shows an exemplary confirmation screen 600 at the pump 100, as
would be used in association with steps 440 and 450 of FIG. 4. When a nurse fills an order
for a drug, which again is shown as dopamine in this example, a pop-up screen 610 or other
visual or audio signal notifies the nurse that the "Keep Infusing Mode" has been allowed.
The nurse can then confirm whether to continue with the "Keep Infusing Mode" by selecting
a yes or no response, and the system may be programmed to not proceed until the response is
entered. The pop-up screen 610 in this example also lists information about the conditions
that have been set for the Keep Infusing Mode. In some embodiments, the pop-up screen
may be accompanied by an audible tone to alert the caregiver to verify the information on the
display, to increase awareness to the caregiver that the pump has been programmed to
operate in a different mode.
        [0025]      Various alarm or failure conditions are possible for triggering a fail
operate condition. For example, "fail-operate" could be used to continue delivery of a
                                                 7

                                                                       Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
critical medication when air is present in the delivery line. In some pumps, there are two
types of "air-in-line" alarms - single bubble and accumulated. Single bubble alarms are
typically restricted in the drug library or in the pump code to approximately 50-500
microliters of air before alarming. Accumulated air alarms are typically set on the order of
1000 microliters, as many patients are able to withstand more than a single bubble before
harm occurs. In one embodiment, a fail-operate mode may be allowed to override the single
bubble alarm and enable critical drug infusion to continue if the patient. Allowing a single
bubble to pass may be more beneficial to the patient than halting delivery of a life-sustaining
medicine, as the patient is still protected by the accumulated air alarm.
         [0026]      In another embodiment, an occlusion condition may operate in the fail
operate mode. Occlusions may occur when, for example, there is a kink in the infusion
tubing, or when the tubing has been improperly loaded. The fail-operate mode allows the
critical medication to continue being delivered, even at a partial rate due to a blockage in the
line, to sustain the patient rather than stopping delivery until the line is fixed.
         [0027]      In another embodiment, the designation of a medication as a critical
medication in a drug library can be optional and the medication can simply be flagged in the
drug library downloaded to the pump or the memory resident in the pump as designated for
delivery in a fail-operate mode. This embodiment provides a patient care system that
includes a medical pump for delivering a medicine to a patient and a processor in
communication with the medical pump. The processor has a memory and logic adapted to:
1) receive a first input on whether the medicine is allowed to be delivered in a fail-operate
mode; and 2) receive a second input on a trigger condition that triggers the fail-operate mode.
The fail-operate mode provides for continuation of the delivery of the medicine when the
trigger condition is triggered. The first input and the second input are stored in the memory.
The pump is controlled to operate in the fail-operate mode for the flagged medicine when the
trigger condition is triggered. Manufacturers, institutions or users may flag only some drugs,
flag entire drug libraries, all drugs in certain CCAs, or all drugs in certain pumps to be
delivered in a fail-operate mode.
         [0028]      While the specification has been described in detail with respect to
specific embodiments of the invention, it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art,
upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing, may readily conceive of alterations to,
                                                  8

                                                                      Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
variations of, and equivalents to these embodiments. These and other modifications and
variations to the present invention may be practiced by those of ordinary skill in the art,
without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore, those of ordinary
skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing description is by way of example only, and is
not intended to limit the invention. Thus, it is intended that the present subject matter covers
such modifications and variations.
                                                  9

                                                                      Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
What is claimed is:
         1. A patient care system comprising:
         a medical pump for delivering a medicine to a patient; and
         a processor in communication with the medical pump, the processor comprising a
memory and a logic adapted to:
         receive a first input on whether the medicine is a critical medicine;
         receive a second input on a trigger condition that triggers a fail-operate mode for the
critical medicine, wherein the fail-operate mode continues delivery of the critical medicine
when the trigger condition is triggered;
         store the first input and the second input in the memory; and
         control the pump to operate in the fail-operate mode when triggered.
         2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a fail-stop mode, wherein the fail-stop
mode stops delivery of the medicine when the trigger condition is triggered.
         3. The system of claim 2 wherein the processor is adapted to enable a user to select
between engaging the fail-stop mode or the fail-operate mode.
         4. The system of claim 2 wherein the fail-stop mode is the default mode.
         5. The system of claim 2 further comprising a first audible alarm for the fail-stop
mode and a second audible alarm for the fail-operate mode, wherein the first audible alarm is
different from the second audible alarm.
         6. The system of claim 1 wherein the processor is programmed to request
confirmation for engaging the fail-operate mode.
         7. The system of claim 6 wherein the confirmation is presented by a pop-up screen
on the medical pump.
                                                 10

                                                                     Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
        8. The system of claim 1 wherein the first input is received from a drug library or a
professional caregiver.
        9. The system of claim 1 wherein the second input is received from one of a drug
library and a professional caregiver.
        10. The system of claim 1 wherein the trigger condition is configured to be specific
to an individual patient or to a specific clinical care area.
        11. The system of claim 1 wherein the trigger condition is selected from the group
consisting of an occlusion, air-in-line, air accumulation, and low battery.
        12. The system of claim 1 wherein the critical medicine is chosen from the group
consisting of anticoagulants, hydration fluids, nutrient solutions, and antibiotics.
        13. The system of claim 1 wherein the processor provides an indication of when the
fail-operate mode is engaged, wherein the indication comprises one of the group consisting
of: a notification to a medical professional, a message displayed on the medical pump, an
audible tone, and an indicator light.
        14. A method for configuring delivery of a critical medicine, the method comprising:
        providing a medical pump and a processor in communication with the medical pump,
wherein the processor comprises a memory and a logic;
        configuring the processor with an option for entering a first input on whether a
medicine is a critical medicine;
        configuring the processor with an option for entering a second input on a trigger
condition that triggers a fail-operate mode, wherein the fail-operate mode continues delivery
of the critical when the trigger condition is triggered;
        storing the first input and the second input in the memory; and
        controlling the pump to operate in the fail-operate mode when triggered.
                                                 11

                                                                       Attorney Docket: 7253WO01
          15. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of configuring the processor
 with a fail-stop mode, wherein the fail-stop mode stops delivery of the medicine when the
 trigger condition is triggered, and wherein the processor is adapted to enable a user to select
 between engaging the fail-stop mode or the fail-operate mode.
          16. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of providing a first audible
 alarm for the fail-stop mode and a second audible alarm for the fail-operate mode, wherein
 the first audible alarm is different from the second audible alarm.
          17. The method of claim 11 wherein the trigger condition is configured to be specific
 to an individual patient or to a specific clinical care area.
          18. The method of claim 11 wherein the trigger condition is selected from the group
 consisting of an occlusion, air-in-line, and low battery.
          19. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of providing an indication of
 when the fail-operate mode is engaged, wherein the indication comprises one of the group
 consisting of: a notification to a medical professional, a message displayed on the medical
 pump, an audible tone, and an indicator light.
          20. A patient care system comprising:
          a medical pump for delivering a medicine to a patient; and
          a processor in communication with the medical pump, the processor comprising a
 memory and a logic adapted to:
          receive a first input on whether the medicine is allowed to be delivered in
a fail-operate mode;
          receive a second input on a trigger condition that triggers the fail-operate mode,
 wherein the fail-operate mode continues delivery of the medicine when the trigger condition
 is triggered;
          store the first input and the second input in the memory; and
          control the pump to operate in the fail-operate mode for the medicine when triggered.
                                                  12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
