ABSTRACT
Fiber optical sensor unit for detecting a mechanical force acting on a rail,
comprising:
       an optical fiber;
       a fiber Bragg grating provided in the optical fiber which has a Bragg
wavelength that depends on the mechanical force;
       a converter structure, wherein the converter structure has a signal
amplification lever; and
       an edge filter for filtering the first part of the signal light, in
particular wherein the edge filter has a filter characteristic line with a
nominal slope of 8 % per nm related to the transmitted intensity or less,
in particular between 2 % and 7 % per nm, in particular wherein a
measuring range of axle loads of 200 kg to 50,000 kg that act on the rail
is provided.

           1/5
                303
     304    306
2057
          308
         Fig. 1

                                        1
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2015208343, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
                           RAIL MEASURING SYSTEM
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates in general to an optical measuring
device for detecting measured variables by means of sensors that are
embedded in optical fibers, and relates, in particular, to a use of at least
one fiber-optic sensor element for measuring a mechanical variable that
acts on a rail, and to a rail measuring system. The present invention
moreover relates to a method of mounting a fiber-optic sensor element to
a rail.
TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
[0002] Fiber-optic sensors are becoming more and more important in
measuring systems. In this connection, one or more sensors that are
embedded in fiber optic cables, such as e.g. fiber Bragg gratings, are used
in order to detect strain of the optical fiber caused by a mechanical
variable and to therewith detect the forces, torques, accelerations, loads,
pressure conditions etc.
[0003] The sensor elements that are integrated in fiber sensors are
irradiated with optical radiation in a suitable wavelength range. The fiber
optic cable is strained by the acting force and a reflection or transmission
wavelength of the fiber Bragg grating changes. Part of the irradiated light
is reflected by the sensor and supplied to an evaluation and analysis unit.
The wavelength change based on the acting force can be examined in the

                                        2
analysis unit and be used to detect mechanical influences on the sensor
element.
[0004] The intensity and/or the wavelength range of the optical radiation
reflected by the sensor element or of the optical radiation transmitted
through the sensor element comprise features which are influenced by the
mechanical variable used. The fiber-optic sensor elements that are
integrated in the optical sensor fiber are i.a. sensitive to strain of the
sensor fiber, whereby the wavelength spectrum reflected by the sensor
element or the wavelength spectrum transmitted through the sensor
element is influenced.
[0005] Different measuring systems are used in order to monitor various
aspects of a rail or track system. In particular, the force exerted on the
rail by a passing train is of interest, which allows to draw conclusions not
least about the passing train.
[0006] For measuring systems for rail or track systems on which trains
run, it is moreover a challenge to reliably detect greatly varying axle
loads, in particular since the safety requirements demand a very small
error rate. Moreover, not only the axle loads introduced into a rail system
or track system vary. Also the support of the rails on railway sleepers, the
structure of the track bed and the type of trains can vary substantially.
This represents great challenges for a measuring system.
[0007] Moreover, strain of the optical fiber and therefore of the optical
sensor element in the fiber and/or changes in the fiber Bragg grating
structure do not only depend on the mechanical variable to be measured,
such as e.g. the force, but can also be influenced by undesired
disturbance variables such as e.g. temperature fluctuations. For this
reason, it is desired to eliminate or at least suppress disturbance variables

                                          3
that have an effect on the measurement accuracy in the detection of the
desired variables.
[0008] For this reason, it is desirable to provide an improved measuring
system for rail or track systems, an improved fiber-optic sensor unit for
rail or track systems, as well as an improved use of the fiber-optic sensor
unit.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008a] In one embodiment, the present invention provides a fiber optical
sensor unit for detecting a mechanical force acting on a rail, comprising:
       an optical fiber;
       a fiber Bragg grating provided in the optical fiber which has a Bragg
wavelength that depends on the mechanical force;
       a converter structure, wherein the converter structure has a signal
amplification lever; and
       an edge filter for filtering the first part of the signal light, in
particular wherein the edge filter has a filter characteristic line with a
nominal slope of 8 % per nm related to the transmitted intensity or less,
in particular between 2 % and 7 % per nm, in particular wherein a
measuring range of axle loads of 200 kg to 50,000 kg that act on the rail
is provided.
[0008b] In another embodiment, the present invention provides a rail
measuring system comprising:
       a rail with a longitudinal extension and a neutral axis which extends
along the longitudinal extension on which rail a mechanical force acts
which is generated by a train running thereon; and at least one fiber-optic
sensor unit according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, typically two fiber
optic sensor units according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, for detecting
the mechanical force that acts on the rail.

                                        4
BRIEF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAW NGS
[0009] Embodiments are illustrated in the drawings and explained in more
detail in the following description. In the drawings:
Fig. 1 shows a sensor fiber containing an integrated sensor element
designed as a fiber Bragg grating for measuring fiber strain;
Fig. 2 shows a sensor reflection response caused by an integrated sensor
element within the fiber illustrated in Fig. 1;
Fig. 3 shows a schematic block diagram of a fiber-optic measuring device
with light source, fiber coupler and detection configuration or a fiber-optic
sensor unit or a rail measuring system in accordance with embodiments of
the present invention;
Fig. 4 shows a schematic diagram of a rail measuring system in
accordance with further embodiments; and
Figs. 5A und 5B show schematic diagrams of a converter structure used in
a sensor element, which can be used in a sensor unit or a rail measuring
system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.
[0010] Identical reference numerals in the drawings characterize identical
or functionally similar components or steps.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0011] The present invention provides a use of at least one fiber-optic
sensor element for measuring a mechanical variable which acts on a rail, a
fiber-optic sensor unit for detecting a mechanical variable that acts on a

                                           5
rail, a rail measuring system and a method of mounting a fiber-optic
sensor element to a rail in accordance with the independent claims.
[0012] In accordance with one embodiment, a use of at least one fiber
optic sensor unit is provided for measuring a mechanical variable that acts
on a rail with a longitudinal extension and a neutral axis which extends
along the longitudinal extension, wherein the use comprises provision of
the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit at an angle of 300 to 600, in
particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at an angle of -300 to -600,
in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis, irradiation of the at least
one fiber-optic sensor unit with primary light for generating a signal light
in reflection mode or transmission mode, detection of the intensity of the
signal light and evaluation of the signal light.
[0013] In accordance with a further embodiment, a fiber-optic sensor unit
is provided for detecting a mechanical force that acts on the rail, wherein
the fiber-optic sensor unit comprises an optical fiber, a fiber Bragg grating
which is provided in the optical fiber and has a Bragg wavelength that
depends on the mechanical force, a converter structure, wherein the
converter structure comprises a signal amplification lever, and an edge
filter for filtering the first part of the signal light, in particular, wherein the
edge filter has a filter characteristic line with a nominal slope of 8 % per
nm related to the transmitted intensity or less, in particular between 2 %
and 7 % per nm, in particular wherein a measuring range of axial loads of
200 kg to 50,000 kg that act on the rail is provided.
[0014] In accordance with a further embodiment, a rail measuring system
is provided, wherein the rail measuring system comprises a rail with a
longitudinal extension and a neutral axis extending along the longitudinal
extension on which rail a mechanical force generated by a passing train
acts, and at least one fiber-optic sensor unit, typically two fiber-optic
sensor units, for detecting the mechanical force that acts on the rail,

                                        6
wherein a fiber-optic sensor unit comprises a fiber Bragg grating which
has a Bragg wavelength which depends on the mechanical variable and
wherein the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit is mounted to the rail at
an angle of 300 to 600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at
an angle of -300 to -600, in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis of
the rail.
[0015] In accordance with a further embodiment, a method is provided
for mounting a fiber-optic sensor unit, in particular a fiber-optic sensor
unit comprising a fiber Bragg grating, to a rail, wherein the method
comprises mounting the fiber-optic sensor unit at a further angle of 300 to
600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at a further angle of
300 to -600, in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis of the rail, in
particular wherein the fiber-optic sensor unit is mounted approximately at
the neutral axis.
[0016] In accordance with a further embodiment, a use of at least one
fiber-optic sensor unit is provided for measuring a mechanical variable
that acts on a rail with a longitudinal extension and a neutral axis
extending along the longitudinal extension, wherein the use comprises
provision of the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit at the neutral axis, in
particular such that the fiber-optic sensor unit crosses the neutral axis,
irradiation of the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit with primary light for
generating a signal light in reflection mode or transmission mode,
detection of the intensity of the signal light, and evaluation of the signal
light.
[0017] In accordance with a further embodiment, a rail measuring system
is provided, wherein the rail measuring system comprises a rail with a
longitudinal extension and a neutral axis extending along the longitudinal
extension, on which a mechanical force generated by a passing train acts,
and at least one fiber-optic sensor unit, typically two fiber-optic sensor

                                        7
units for detecting the mechanical force acting on the rail, wherein a fiber
optic sensor unit has a fiber Bragg grating which has a Bragg wavelength
that depends on the mechanical variable, and wherein the at least one
fiber-optic sensor unit is mounted at the neutral axis, in particular such
that it crosses the neutral axis.
[0018] In accordance with a further embodiment, a method is provided
for mounting a fiber-optic sensor unit, in particular a fiber-optic sensor
unit comprising a fiber Bragg grating, to a rail, wherein the method
comprises mounting the fiber-optic sensor unit at the neutral axis of the
rail, in particular such that the fiber-optic sensor unit crosses the neutral
axis.
[0019] In accordance with a further embodiment, a measuring method is
provided for measuring a mechanical variable which acts on a rail with a
longitudinal extension and a neutral axis extending along the longitudinal
extension, wherein the method comprises irradiation of at least one fiber
optic sensor unit with primary light for generating a signal light in
reflection mode or transmission mode, detection of the intensity of the
signal light and evaluation of the signal light, wherein in particular with
the signal light clipping occurs which is used for evaluating the signal
light.
[0020] The following is a detailed description of various embodiments of
the invention, wherein one or a plurality of examples are illustrated in the
drawing.
[0021] Embodiments of the present invention which are described herein
relate i.a. to a use of at least one fiber-optic sensor unit for measuring a
mechanical variable, a fiber-optic sensor unit for detecting a mechanical
force acting on the rail, a rail measuring system and a method for

                                        8
mounting a fiber-optic sensor unit, in particular a fiber-optic sensor unit
with a fiber Bragg grating, to a rail.
[0022] Fig. 1 illustrates a sensor or a sensor element 303 which is
integrated in a fiber optic cable and comprises a fiber Bragg grating 306.
Although Fig. 1 shows only one single fiber Bragg grating 306, it is clear
that the present invention is not limited to data acquisition from one
single fiber Bragg grating 306 but that a plurality of fiber Bragg gratings
306 can be arranged along a transmission fiber or a sensor fiber 304.
[0023] Fig. 1 thus only shows a section of an optical waveguide which is
designed as sensor fiber 304, wherein this sensor fiber 304 is sensitive to
fiber strain 308. It should be mentioned in this connection that the term
"optical" or "light" shall refer to a wavelength range in the electromagnetic
spectrum which may extend from the ultraviolet spectral range via the
visible spectral range to the infrared spectral range. A center wavelength
of the fiber Bragg grating 306 i.e. a so-called Bragg wavelength AB is
obtained by the following equation:
                                   AB ~ 2n  k A
[0024]   nk is here the effective refractive index of the basic mode of the
core of the sensor fiber 304 and As the spatial gr ating period
(modulation period) of the fiber Bragg grating 306.
[0025] A spectral width given by a full width at half maximum of the
reflection response depends on the dimensions of the fiber Bragg grating
306 along the sensor fiber 304. Due to the action of the fiber Bragg
grating 306, the light propagation within the sensor fiber 304 thus e.g.
depends on forces, moments and mechanical tensions as well as
temperatures, which act on the sensor fiber 304 and in particular on the
fiber Bragg grating 306 within the sensor fiber 304.

                                        9
[0026] As is illustrated in Fig. 1, measuring light 204 enters the sensor
fiber 304 from the left-hand side, wherein part of the measuring light 204
exits as transmitted light 206 with a wavelength dependence that is
different from the measuring light 204. It is also possible to receive
reflected light 205 at the input end of the fiber (i.e. at the end at which
the measuring light 204 is also irradiated), wherein the reflected light 204
also shows a modified wavelength distribution as illustrated e.g. in Fig. 2
(sensor reflection response).
[0027] In a case in which the measuring light 204 is irradiated in a wide
spectral range, a transmission minimum       in the transmitted light 206 at
the position of the Bragg wavelength (an inverted dependence as
compared with the dependence illustrated in Fig. 2, i.e. maximum
absorption at the Bragg wavelength) is the result. A reflection maximum is
obtained at this position in the reflected light, which is explained below
with reference to Fig. 2.
[0028] Fig. 2 schematically represents a sensor reflection response 400
which is received when broad-band measuring light 204 is irradiated and
when the center wavelength of the fiber Bragg grating 306 (Fig. 1), i.e.
the Bragg wavelength AB, corresponds to the dashed line 403. The sensor
reflection response 400 may have a symmetrical curve with respect to the
center wavelength 403, wherein the curve has a full width at half
maximum (FWHM) 404, i.e. a spectral width at half the maximum
intensity.
[0029] Fig. 2 schematically shows spatial scanning points (circles). The
evaluation of the modified secondary light 203 recorded by the detector
unit 104 now allows to obtain the curve shown in Fig. 2, i.e. the sensor
reflection response 400, as a function of a wavelength A Fig. 2 thus
shows an intensity distribution 1(4, i.e. the inten sity reflected by the

                                       10
sensor element 303 is illustrated as a function of the wavelength A A
wavelength distribution to be detected by the measuring device is
obtained through a wavelength response range 405 which is illustrated by
the double arrow in Fig. 2. Modified secondary light 203 shows wavelength
components in this range when the fiber Bragg grating 306 is measured.
The modified secondary light 203 then corresponds to the sensor
reflection response 400 illustrated in Fig. 2, i.e. a reflection intensity 402
is recorded as a function of the wavelength 401.
[0030] Fig. 3 shows a schematic block diagram of a fiber-optic measuring
device with light source, fiber coupler and detection arrangement or a
fiber-optic sensor unit or a rail measuring system in accordance with
embodiments of the present invention. Fig. 3 shows a rail 320, a fiber
optic sensor unit 330 mounted to the rail and an optical measuring device
340. The fiber-optic sensor unit 330 may in this case be the sensor unit
303 illustrated in Fig. 2 or be similar to that.
[0031] The rail 320 can approximately be regarded as a bar. A bar is in
general a rod-shaped support member which can be loaded by loads in a
direction transverse to its axis. The bar reacts to the loads with bending
and shear deformation. If e.g. a force acts on a contact surface of the bar,
the bar is deformed due to the bending deformation to such an extent that
a first area facing the contact surface is contracted (negative strain) and a
second area facing away from the contact surface is expanded (positive
strain). There is an area between these areas which does not experience
any strain by this bending motion. It is designated as a neutral axis. The
above-mentioned shear deformation exists in addition to the bending
motion.
[0032] The rail 320 illustrated in Fig. 3 has a foot 322 in a lower section
and a head 324 in an upper section. Between these, an approximately
rectangular area 326 is formed. If a mechanical variable acts on the rail

                                       11
320, the rail 320 is deformed, thereby forming a neutral axis 328 as
described above. The rail 320 is preferably designed such that the neutral
axis 328 is formed in the rectangular area 326.
[0033] In accordance with some embodiments, the fiber-optic sensor unit
confines an angle of greater or smaller than 00 with the neutral axis. The
fiber-optic sensor unit can preferably be arranged at an angle of 300 to
600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at an angle of -300 to
-600, in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis.
[0034] Mounting the fiber-optic sensor unit 330 at an angle of ±300 to
±600, in particular ±450, relative to the neutral axis offers the advantage
that the fiber-optic sensor unit detects shear deformations which cause a
positive or negative strain, which do not extend in parallel with the
neutral axis.
[0035] In accordance with some embodiments, the fiber-optic sensor unit
may be mounted at the neutral axis, in particular, extend over it such
that the optical sensor unit is mounted to the rail at two positions such
that the sensor unit crosses the neutral axis, i.e. one mounting point is
arranged on one side of the neutral axis and the other mounting point is
arranged on the opposite side of the neutral axis. Moreover, the mounting
points may, in particular be arranged at the same distance from the
neutral axis, i.e. be arranged symmetrically, in particular point
symmetrically, relative to the neutral axis.
[0036] In Fig. 3, the fiber-optic sensor unit 330 is mounted to the rail 320
via two mounting points 332, 334 which e.g. are located at the same
distance from the neutral axis. For this reason, the bending deformations
caused by a mechanical variable acting on the rail at the mounting points
332, 334 cancel one another, whereby the shear deformation is measured
substantially directly or substantially without interference.

                                        12
[0037] In accordance with some embodiments which can be combined
with other embodiments, the fiber-optic sensor unit may substantially be
arranged at or on top of the neutral axis or extend over it, i.e. cross it. In
accordance with some embodiments which can be combined with other
embodiments, the fiber-optic sensor unit can be arranged at an angle of
300 to 600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at an angle of
-300 to -600, in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis. In particular,
the fiber-optic sensor unit can substantially be arranged at or on top of
the neutral axis or extend over it, i.e. cross it and be arranged at an angle
of 300 to 600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at an angle
of -300 to -600. With this type of mounting, only shear deformations are
introduced into the sensor. These are independent of the curvature of the
rail and for this reason independent of the exact support of the rail on the
track bed and the railway sleepers.
[0038] The optical measuring device illustrated in Fig. 3 comprises a
primary light source 341, a fiber coupler 343 and a photo detector 345. An
optical transmitting fiber 342 is provided between the primary light source
341 and the fiber coupler 343. The fiber coupler 343 directs the primary
light 201 of the primary light source 341 onto the fiber-optic sensor unit
330. The sensor reflection response 400, i.e. the signal light reflected by
the fiber-optic sensor unit 330 in dependence on the mechanical variable
acting on the rail 150 is, in turn, transmitted to the fiber coupler 343. The
reflected light or part of the reflected light is supplied as secondary light
347 or signal light 347 to the photo detector 345 in the fiber coupler 343.
A detector detects the intensity distribution, preferably the intensity of the
signal light. For example, the detector resolves a change in the center
wavelength 403 of the secondary light 347 reflected back by the fiber
optic sensor unit.

                                       13
[0039] Moreover, a beam splitter 344 may be provided between the fiber
coupler 343 and the photo detector 345, which splits the light incident on
it and guides a first part 347a to a photo detector 345 and guides a
second part 347b via a filter 346 to a second photo detector 348. The
filter 346 is preferably designed as an edge filter.
[0040] The evaluation of the signals on the first photo detector 345
and/or on the second photo detector 348 is performed in an evaluation
unit which is not shown and in which, in particular, the signal light can be
evaluated. For example, the signals can be processed or computed. The
first and/or the second photo detector is/are advantageously designed as
photo diode, photo multiplier, avalanche photo diode or the like. Photo
detectors of this type convert the incoming signal light into a photocurrent
which permits quick and simple evaluation. For example, a difference of
the signals generated at the photo detectors 345, 348 designed as photo
diodes can be generated.
[0041] In accordance with typical embodiments, a detector can spectrally
integrate the signal light i.e. can detect the intensity, e.g. downstream of
the edge filter, without spectral resolution. The optical signals of the photo
diodes can be read out downstream of the edge filter in a high-frequency
manner, in particular higher than 5 kHz, advantageously higher than 8
kHz, typically higher than 10 kHz, since a simple scan of the
photocurrents is performed. Alternatively, detection can also be performed
by means of a spectrometer or the like in order to determine the spectrum
of the wavelength distribution reflected back by the fiber-optic sensor
unit 330. However, the use of photo detectors, in particular photo diodes,
offers the advantage of high-frequency scanning with a simple
measurement configuration. Moreover, a change in the dynamic range can
be effected through selection of a slope of the filter characteristic line of
the edge filter. The nominal slope of the filter characteristic line is thereby
advantageously smaller than 8 % nm, and is in particular in a range

                                         14
between 2 % and 7 % related to the transmitted intensity. The nominal
slope thereby designates the average slope of the edge filter, the slope in
an important/main area of the edge filter or a slope which is characteristic
for the edge filter as it is mentioned e.g. as representative value in order
to compare various edge filters with respect to their slope. Moreover, a
typical center wavelength 403 of the light reflected back by the fiber
Bragg grating 306 is approximately 1550 nm. Further aspects of the
change of the dynamic range are illustrated with reference to Figs. 5A and
5B.
[0042] The fiber Bragg grating signal, i.e. the signal change of the fiber
optic sensor unit caused by the mechanical variable acting on the rail can
be read out by means of the just illustrated edge filter configuration,
whereby a high-frequency measurement can be performed.
[0043] Fig. 3 moreover illustrates two fiber-optic sensor elements. In
accordance with some embodiments, a second or further fiber-optic
sensor unit is provided at an angle of 300 to 600, in particular 450,
relative to the neutral axis or at a further angle of -300 to -600, in
particular -450 relative to the neutral axis in order to enlarge the range of
applications. This is illustrated in connection with Fig. 4. In particular, the
sign of the further angle of the further fiber-optic sensor unit differs from
the sign of the angle of the fiber-optic sensor unit. In this connection, by
adding these two signals a signal can be provided which is proportional to
the load on the rail.
[0044] It shall be pointed out that although in Fig. 3 the use of two fiber
optic sensor units is illustrated, it is possible to use three or more fiber
optic sensor units in order to e.g. increase the measuring accuracy. In
accordance with some embodiments, further fiber-optic sensor units, i.e. a
third or a fourth sensor unit, may also be arranged at the above-described

                                        15
angles. However, they may also be arranged at different angles such as
e.g. 00 or 900 relative to the neutral axis.
[0045] The primary light can be intensity-modulated prior to irradiation of
the fiber-optic sensor units by the primary light source 341 in order to
eliminate or at least reduce undesired interferences by e.g. a lock-in
technology. In case of an intensity modulation of the primary light 201 by
the primary light source 341, the modulation frequency can be provided
for the photo detectors in order to enable synchronized detection in the
photo detectors.
[0046] It should furthermore be noted that although measurement in
reflection mode is illustrated in Fig. 3, the fiber-optic sensor units
designed as fiber Bragg grating can also be operated in transmission
mode such that transmitted primary light 201 is supplied to the optical
measuring device as secondary light (transmitted secondary light) 202.
[0047] Fig. 4 shows a schematic view of a rail measuring system in
accordance with a further embodiment. It should be mentioned here that
components that have already been described with reference to Fig. 3 are
not again mentioned herein in order to avoid redundant description. As is
illustrated in Fig. 4, the rail measuring system comprises the rail 320 and
at least one fiber-optic sensor unit 330. The rail 320 is supported on a
plurality of railway sleepers. Fig. 4 shows two railway sleepers 410a, 410b
between which at least one fiber-optic sensor unit is arranged, typically
two fiber-optic sensor units 330a, 330b. In accordance with the
embodiments described herein, at least one sensor unit 330, in particular
at least two sensor units can be mounted to the rail such that they confine
an angle of ±300 to ±600, typically   ±450, with the neutral axis. In
accordance with another embodiment, the at least one fiber-optic sensor
unit 330 preferably extends over the neutral axis in a symmetrical, in
particular point-symmetrical, manner. This means, it is mounted to the

                                       16
rail 320 via two mounting points 332, 334 which have an identical
distance from the neutral axis. Reference numeral 420 moreover
exemplarily shows the wheels of a train running on the rail 320.
[0048] The passing train exerts a force on the rail 320 with its wheels
420, as a consequence of which the rail 320 is deformed as discussed
above. For this reason, the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit is strained
in a positive or negative manner. This changes the wavelength distribution
reflected or transmitted by the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit. It is
detected and evaluated as measuring signal in order to be able to draw
conclusions about the passing train. E.g. the shear deformation caused by
the train running on the rail can be determined.
[0049] In accordance with some embodiments, at least one fiber-optic
sensor unit can be provided at one measuring position. Evaluation of the
measuring signal can thereby be used for axle counting. The measuring
signal corresponds here to the light reflected and/or transmitted by the
fiber-optic sensor unit, i.e. the signal light.
[0050] In accordance with other embodiments as illustrated in Fig. 4, at
least two fiber-optic sensor units can be provided at two measuring
positons. Alternatively or additionally, a fiber-optic sensor unit may also
comprise two or more optical fibers with fiber Bragg grating which can be
mounted to the same or different measuring positons. Each fiber-optic
sensor unit can thus have at least one fiber Bragg grating provided in an
optical fiber, which has a Bragg wavelength that depends on the acting
mechanical variable. Evaluation of the measuring signals of the at least
two fiber-optic sensor units or of the at least one fiber-optic sensor unit
with at least two fiber Bragg gratings can comprise determination of the
load on the rail, measurement of the speed, detection of the direction of
passing trains, wheel damages of trains on the rail and/or train
classification of passing trains.

                                        17
[0051] In Fig. 4, two fiber-optic sensor units 330a, 330b are mounted to
two measuring positions on the rail 320. The rail 320 can thereby be
divided into three sections. A first section is arranged in the vicinity of the
first railway sleeper 410a and between the first and the second railway
sleeper 410a, a second section is arranged between the first and the
second railway sleeper 410a, 410b and a third section is arranged in the
vicinity of the second railway sleeper 410b and between the first and the
second railway sleeper 410a, wherein the second section is located
between the first and the third section. For example, the first, the second
and the third section divide the area between two railway sleepers into
identically sized thirds. The first fiber-optic sensor unit 330a is preferably
mounted in the first section and the second fiber-optic sensor unit 330b is
preferably mounted in the third section. In accordance with some
embodiments which can be combined with other embodiments, the fiber
optic sensor units may also be in the area of the railway sleeper, i.e.
closer than in an area of 30% of the separation between the railway
sleepers. The first and/or the third section can e.g. cover 15% of the area
between two railway sleepers and the second section 70% of the area
between two railway sleepers. As is illustrated in Fig. 4, the first fiber
optic sensor unit 330a confines a positive angle with the neutral axis 326
and the second fiber-optic sensor unit 330b subtends a negative angle
with the neutral axis 326. In particular, the first and the second fiber-optic
sensor unit 330a, 330b can have an angle of the same amount but
different signs. The first and the second fiber-optic sensor units 330a,
330b are typically arranged in a mirror-symmetrical manner.
[0052] In accordance with some embodiments, the at least one fiber-optic
sensor unit is provided with a variable angle relative to the neutral axis
which changes with the separation between the fiber-optic sensor unit and
the railway sleeper. In particular, the variable angle is steeper when the
fiber-optic sensor unit is arranged close to the railway sleeper, and

                                       18
becomes flatter the further in the middle the fiber-optic sensor unit is
arranged between two neighboring railway sleepers. This offers the
advantage that the fiber-optic sensor unit can be oriented towards the
shearing stress acting in different directions along the rail.
[0053] In accordance with some embodiments, an evaluation of a high
frequency measuring signal can be performed in order to be able to detect
passing high-speed trains. In this case, measuring rates of more than 5
kHz, typically more than 8 kHz, in particular more than 10 kHz, are
advantageous. The optical signals can typically also be read out in a high
frequency manner downstream of the edge filter since a simple electrical
scan of the photocurrents is performed.
[0054] By mounting the optical fiber or the fiber-optic sensor unit at an
angle relative to the neutral axis of typically 300 to 600, in particular 450,
such that the optical fiber or the fiber-optic sensor unit centrally extends
over the neutral axis of the rail, only shear deformations are introduced
into the sensor. These are independent of the bend of the rail and
therefore independent of the exact support of the rail on the track bed and
the railway sleepers. By using two parallel measuring systems of this type
and mounting the sensors at angles with different signs close to one
another as well as adding these two signals, it is possible to generate a
signal proportional to the load on the rail.
[0055] Moreover, passing trains exert axial loads of 200 kg up to 50,000
kg on exactly the same rail, which causes a high dynamic range (large
measuring range). The high dynamic range requires the measuring signal
to be clearly distinguished from the background of the measurement
uncertainty (high signal-to-noise ratio) in order to be able to also reliably
detect small signals (safety requirements of more than 1 ppm error rate).
With small signals, there is the problem of a polarization error during
measurement by means of fiber Bragg grating sensors. This error

                                        19
represents an inherent measuring error of the system and is a fixed value
for these measuring systems which is predetermined by the fiber Bragg
grating sensor used. Since the signal height is fixedly predetermined by
the strains on the rail, this signal to measurement uncertainty ratio cannot
be simply overcome. For this reason, very small axle loads cannot be
safely detected. Consequently, some embodiments of the present
invention propose amplification of the existing strain on the rail by means
of a suitable lever structure or converter structure.
[0056] Figs. 5A and 5B illustrate schematic views of a converter structure
used in a fiber-optic sensor unit in accordance with a further embodiment.
[0057] As is illustrated in Fig. 5A, the converter structure 510 has an H
shaped structure, however, without being confined thereto. The converter
structure may in principle have any suitable shape as long as it provides
an amplification of the strain of the rail to the optical fiber with the fiber
Bragg grating in order to increase the sensitivity. The converter structure
illustrated in Fig.5A has two spaced-apart rods 512a, 512b and a bar 514
connecting the rods 512a, 512b. The bar 514 represents at the same time
the fixed point or pivot point of the converter structure, about which the
converter structure rotates when force is applied.
[0058] An optical fiber 304 with a provided fiber Brag grating 306 is
clamped at two suspension points 516a, 516b in a first section between
the two rods 512a, 512b. The converter structure 510 is mounted to the
rail 320 via two mounting points 518a, 518b provided in a second section.
A first lever arm with the length larm1 is correspondingly determined by
the separation between the suspension points 516a, 516b and the bar 514
and a second lever arm with the length larm2 is determined by the
separation between the mounting points 518a, 518b and the rod 514. The
lever ratio k thus results in k = larml/larm2. Even if the lever ratio has
been defined over two distances, the lever ratio may also be negative, if,

                                       20
as illustrated e.g. in Figs. 5A and 5B, the fixed point or pivot point of the
converter structure is arranged between the mounting points of the
converter structure for mounting to the rail and the suspension points of
the fiber at the converter structure. If the mounting points of the
converter structure for mounting to the rail and the suspension points of
the fiber at the converter structure are arranged on the same side of the
fixed point or pivot point of the lever, the lever ratio is positive. The
arrangement of the fixed point or pivot point of the converter structure
relative to the mounting points on the rail and the suspension points for
the optical fiber thus decides about the sign of the lever ratio. The amount
of the lever ratio k is advantageously larger than 1, in particular larger
than 2, preferably between 2 and 3.
[0059] Fig. 5B shows the converter structure when the rail expands, e.g.
under the influence of a mechanical force or temperature change. As is
illustrated in Fig. 5B, the separation between the mounting points 518a,
518b changes, which leads to a change in separation between the
suspension points 516a, 516b. The amount of the lever ratio is
advantageously larger than 1, in particular larger than 2, preferably
between 2 and 3. For this reason, the optical fiber 304 is strained more
(positively or negatively) than the rail 320, which amplifies the
measuring signal. For this reason, the signal to measurement uncertainty
ratio is increased, for which reason also small signals can be reliably
detected.
[0060] In accordance with typical embodiments which can be combined
with other embodiments, the amount of the amplification or the lever ratio
k is greater than 1. The transmission ratio may be negative as illustrated
e.g. in Figs. 5A and 5B or may be positive, in particular when the
mounting points of the converter structure for mounting to the rail and
the suspension points of the fiber are arranged on the converter structure
on the same side of the fixed point or pivot point of the lever. Figs. 5A and

                                       21
5B illustrate an exemplary arrangement. Further designs of levers are also
possible within the scope of the embodiments described herein, wherein
the amount of k is larger than 1 and, in particular the temperature
compensation described below is made possible. In dependence on the
shape of the lever, e.g. in dependence on whether the transmission ratio
is positive or negative, the fiber can be mounted between the suspension
points 516a, 516b with more or less pretension.
[0061] This also leads to an increase in sensitivity. In accordance with
some embodiments, the slope of the edge filter can be selected to be
correspondingly flat. It may have, in particular a nominal slope of less
than 8% per nm, in particular between 2 % and 7 % per nm, related to
the transmitted intensity in order to cover the overall measuring range or
dynamic range. Thus, within the scope of the embodiments described
herein, the sensitivity is increased by the converter structure and the
measuring range is also increased by the flat slope of the edge filter
described herein. This permits secure measurement of greatly varying
axle loads.
[0062] The optical and electric arrangement illustrated in Figs. 3 and 4
thus provides a measuring system on the basis of fiber Bragg grating
sensors, which can convert a mechanical variable into an electric signal by
means of optical elements. Moreover, the mechanically acting variable can
be amplified via a converter structure illustrated in Fig. 5 which causes a
change of the optical signal which can be noted by an increased sensitivity
which must be evaluated by electronics. Thus, the requirements for the
evaluation unit with respect to the measuring range are increased,
however, the signal is provided with a better signal-to-noise ratio which
leads to a smaller error rate. The measuring range of the measuring
device is typically adjusted by adjusting the filter edge such that it
matches the new dynamic range of the extension signal. In some
embodiments, the filter characteristic line of the filter in the measuring

                                         22
device is flattened, e.g. to 8 % per nm or less, in particular to a value
between 2 % and 7 % per nm, related to the transmitted intensity. For
this reason, measurement errors of the measuring device are further
reduced.
[0063] In accordance with some embodiments, the measuring signal can
be amplified by the converter structure also to such an extent that the
measuring signal leaves the measuring range at high loads. In this case,
clipping of the measuring signal is performed. In this case, the correct
measured value for the axle load can indeed no longer be quantitatively
detected but a qualitative statement can be made. The evaluation unit can
e.g. generate an output which corresponds to passage of a train with a
weight which is larger than a predetermined value. Such a signal can
furthermore be used for axle counting.
[0064] Clipping can be performed e.g. when the measuring signal leaves
the filter range of the edge filter, i.e. when it is no longer filtered or
changed by the edge filter such that a differential evaluation with the
unfiltered signal no longer shows any quantitative difference. This is e.g.
the case when a train with such a high axle load passes the fiber-optic
sensor unit or stops in the area of the fiber-optic sensor unit such that the
generated measuring signal is in an area of the edge filter in which the
latter has no relevant slope any more.
[0065] Moreover, a type of clipping can also occur in the optical fiber
304. In some embodiments, it is suspended with a pretension between
the suspension points of the converter structure or on the rail such that
also contractions (negative strain) lead to a measuring signal. The
pretension may thereby be selected such that starting with the occurrence
of a predetermined mechanical force, the optical fiber 304 experiences
such high contractions that the pretension is exhausted and the optical
fiber 304 sags in particular. In this case, a quantitative statement is no

                                       23
longer possible. However, a measuring signal corresponding to the
passing train is still generated. This signal can e.g. be used for performing
axle count or determining the speed. The pretension of the optical fiber is
typically selected such that the changes in length of the optical fiber 304
caused by the mechanical variable, in particular of the fiber Bragg grating
306, cause a wavelength change in a range of 5 nm to 10 nm, preferably
smaller than 12nm. If the length changes to be expected are e.g. on the
border or outside of the range, the just described type of suspension of
the optical fiber offers the advantage that the mechanical load of the
optical fiber can be reduced since it no longer has to follow the great
length changes in case of high loads.
[0066] In accordance with one embodiment, a measuring method with a
sensor unit in accordance with embodiments described herein or with a
rail measuring system in accordance with the embodiments described
herein can be provided, wherein in a first measuring range, a signal is
generated which is proportional to the axle load and in a second
measuring range, in particular for axle loads higher than in the first
measuring range, a signal is generated which is not proportional to the
axle load, e.g. a signal that merely shows the existence of an axle load.
The second area can be realized by clipping according e.g. to one of the
above-mentioned aspects.
[0067] The above described length changes need not comprise the overall
dynamic range of the optical fiber 304 or of the fiber Bragg grating 306.
The optical fiber 304 is typically pretensioned to such an extent that
without influence of a mechanical variable from the outside, e.g. the
mechanical variable exerted by a passing train, the center wavelength 403
is approximately in the center of the available dynamic range in order to
e.g. be able to compensate for a temperature change.

                                       24
[0068] The converter structure can moreover be used for temperature
compensation through suitable selection of the materials and dimensions,
in particular together with the selection of a suitable pretension for the
optical fiber. Temperature changes cause strain to the rail. This strain can
generate an offset or displacement of the signal and result in measuring
errors. For this reason, temperature compensation is advantageous for
absolute measurement applications such as e.g. load measurement and
train weighing.
[0069] In accordance with some of the above-described embodiments,
temperature compensation can be achieved by adjusting the expansion
coefficient of the lever. In this connection, the geometry and the material
of the lever are selected in such a manner that the strain of the fiber and
of the rail are compensated to just zero. In accordance with some
embodiments, for temperature compensation, the expansion coefficient of
the converter structure of a converter structure with negative
transmission ratio is smaller than the expansion coefficient of the rail. In
accordance with other embodiments, for temperature compensation, the
expansion coefficient of the converter structure of a converter structure
with positive transmission ratio is larger than the expansion coefficient of
the rail.
[0070] Although the present invention has been described above with
reference to typical embodiments, it is not limited thereto but can be
modified in a plurality of ways. The invention is not limited to the
mentioned applications either.
[0071] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless
the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such
as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion
of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

                                      25
[0072] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or
information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and
should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of
suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or
known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                         26
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.     Fiber optical sensor unit for detecting a mechanical force acting on a
rail, comprising:
       an optical fiber;
       a fiber Bragg grating provided in the optical fiber which has a Bragg
wavelength that depends on the mechanical force;
       a converter structure, wherein the converter structure has a signal
amplification lever; and
       an edge filter for filtering the first part of the signal light, in
particular wherein the edge filter has a filter characteristic line with a
nominal slope of 8 % per nm related to the transmitted intensity or less,
in particular between 2 % and 7 % per nm, in particular wherein a
measuring range of axle loads of 200 kg to 50,000 kg that act on the rail
is provided.
2.     Fiber-optic sensor unit according to claim 1, wherein the converter
structure is designed to provide temperature compensation, in particular
wherein the thermal expansion coefficient of the converter structure of a
converter structure with negative transmission ratio is smaller than the
thermal expansion coefficient of the rail or wherein the thermal expansion
coefficient of the converter structure of a converter structure with positive
transmission ratio is larger than the thermal expansion coefficient of the
rail.
3.     Rail measuring system comprising:
       a rail with a longitudinal extension and a neutral axis which extends
along the longitudinal extension on which rail a mechanical force acts
which is generated by a train running thereon; and at least one fiber-optic
sensor unit according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, typically two fiber
optic sensor units according to any one of the claims 1 to 2, for detecting
the mechanical force that acts on the rail.

                                       27
4.    Rail measuring system according to claim 3, wherein the at least
one fiber-optic sensor unit is mounted to the rail at an angle of 300 to
600, in particular 450, relative to the neutral axis or at an angle of -300 to
-600 in particular -450, relative to the neutral axis of the rail.
5.    Rail measuring system according to claim 4, wherein the fiber-optic
sensor unit is mounted approximately at the neutral axis of the rail, and
6.    Rail measuring system according to any one of the claims 3 to 5,
further comprising:
      an evaluation unit which is designed for a measuring frequency of 5
kHz or more, in particular of 8 kHz or more, especially of 10 kHz or more.
7.    Rail measuring system according to any one of the claims 3 to 6,
further comprising:
      a broad-band light source for irradiating the fiber-optic sensor unit
with primary light for generating a signal light;
      a beam splitter for splitting the signal light into a first part of the
signal light and into a second part of the signal light; and
      a first detector for detecting the first part of the signal light and a
second detector for detecting the second part of the signal light.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
