ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A product and system for identifying and monitoring a characteristic including the part ID,
presence, condition, usage and/or performance of ground-engaging products used on various kinds
of earth working equipment.

                      10/22
                                     196-     D 194
                   o           2      60
      O0             60 38
           60    o         .--    --- '   38
              3          0                 24
o20',
              62
                                  197      182
         3                     *0
      FIG. 12          (EC::o

                                                 1
      MONITORING GROUND-ENGAGING PRODUCTS FOR EARTH WORKING
                                           EQUIPMENT
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[01]    This application claims priority benefits to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
62/116,216 filed February 13, 2015 and entitled "Wear Part Monitoring," U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 62/151,124 filed April 22, 2015 and entitled "Wear Part Monitoring," U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/175,109 filed June 12, 2015 and entitled "Wear Part
Monitoring," U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/198,552 filed July 29, 2015 and entitled
"Wear Part Monitoring," and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/234,463 filed September
29, 2015 and entitled "Monitoring for Earth Working Equipment," each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[02]    The present invention pertains to a device and system for identifying and monitoring
characteristics such as part identification, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of
ground-engaging products such as ground engaging tools, wear plates, buckets, truck trays, and
the like used on various kinds of earth working equipment.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[03]    In earth working activities (e.g., mining, construction and dredging), ground engaging
products are commonly provided on all kinds of earth working equipment (e.g., draglines, cable
shovels, face shovels, hydraulic excavators, buckets, blades, rippers, dredge cutter heads, etc.) to
protect the underlying equipment from undue wear and, in some cases, also perform other
functions such as breaking up the ground ahead of the digging edge. Ground engaging products
include, for example, buckets that mount on excavating machines, lips that attach to buckets, and
teeth and shrouds that are secured to lips.
[04]    During use, ground-engaging products for earth working equipment can encounter heavy
loading and highly abrasive conditions, which leads to wear or damage to the products, less
remaining wear life of the products, and reduced efficiency for the earth working equipment.
Moreover, a ground engaging product will occasionally encounter a material that is harder than
the surrounding material being mined (e.g., a rock), subjecting the product to impact and/or higher
loading that may lead to deformation, cracking, and/or a higher wear rate of the product than

                                                 2
would otherwise be expected. The increase in the wear rate and/or damage caused to the ground
engaging product may lower the total effective wear life of the product. If the products are not
replaced at the appropriate time, a product may wear beyond the expected life and/or break or
become unexpectedly separated, which may result in lower equipment digging efficiency, and may
expose other components of the excavating equipment leading to the other components
experiencing unnecessary wear.
 [05]   Heavy loading and abrasive conditions can cause ground engaging products to become
disengaged and separated from the earth working equipment.        The operators of earth working
equipment are not always able to see when a ground engaging product has become separated. A
separated ground engaging product may cause damage to downstream processing equipment. For
example, if a separated ground engaging product is fed into a crusher, the product may be ejected
and cause a hazard to workers, or it may become jammed and cause costly crusher downtime. A
jammed crusher requires shutting down the machine and having an operator dislodge the part,
which at times may be a difficult, time-consuming and/or hazardous process.           Additionally,
continuing to operate the excavating equipment with missing ground engaging products can
decrease overall productivity, and may cause the base, upon which the product was secured, to
experience unnecessary wear.
 [06]   There are existing systems that have been used to monitor wear parts in an effort to
determine when a wear part needs replacement and/or has been lost with varying degrees of
success. For example, the Tooth-Wear Monitoring system and Missing Tooth Detection system
sold by Motion Metrics uses an optical camera mounted on the boom of the excavating equipment
to determine the amount of wear in the wear parts and when wear parts are lost. Likewise, US
Patent 8,411,930 discloses a system that relies on a video camera mounted to the boom of an
excavating machine for detecting damaged or missing wear members.
 [07]   In US Patent 6,870,485, a spring-loaded switch is provided between wear part components
so that when the components separate, an electrical switch activates a radio transmitter alerting the
operator that a wear part has been separated. In US Patent 5,743,031, an actuator is attached
between the tooth and the nose, which, in one example, actuates a smoke canister to provide a
visual signal that the tooth has fallen off.
 [08]   U.S. Patent Application 2014/0311762 discloses a sensor within the mounting cavity of the
wear part to measure the level of wear in the part. The sensor communicates the sensed data
wirelessly to a processor for determining the level of wear. Fitting the sensor at the inner end of

                                                  3
the cavity protects the sensor from wear and damage, and permits it to measure the wearable end
of the part. Similarly, PCT Application WO 2012/0122587 discloses a system for monitoring wear
in a liner or other ground engaging product by installing a sensor through the thickness of the part
and connecting the remote end of the sensor to a processor for determining the level of wear. The
remote end can connect to the processor via a cable or a wireless connection.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[09]     The present invention pertains to devices and systems for monitoring ground-engaging
products for earth working equipment. The system can be used to monitor characteristics such as
the part identification, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of ground-engaging
products used on earth working equipment in mining, construction and other earth working
environments.
[10]     In one aspect of the invention, the system may include at least one monitoring device
associated with a ground engaging product, at least one remote device to cooperate with the
monitoring device, and programmable logic to process the information communicated between the
devices. The programmable logic uses the information to determine characteristics including, e.g.,
part identification, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of the ground engaging product
attached to the earth working equipment.
[11]     In another aspect of the invention, ground-engaging products for earth working equipment
are provided with one or more monitoring device proximate an external portion of the ground
engaging product to limit signal blockage and increase reliability of the system. In one
embodiment, the monitoring device includes a sensor, a wireless communication device and a
battery contained within a recess open to an exterior of the ground engaging product and outside
of the inner mounting cavity or other inner side of the ground engaging product. Contrary to
conventional wisdom, a monitoring device located outside of the cavity or other inner surface of
the ground-engaging products can survive in an earth working environment, such as digging, and
can provide increased signal strength and reliability of the system.
[12]     In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device is secured to one or more elements
used to couple, protect, or otherwise enhance and/or enable the ground engaging assemblies. For
example, the monitoring device may be secured to a lock holding a ground-engaging product to a
base for earth working equipment. Such placement is preferably similarly outside of the cavity or
other inner surface of the product for increased signal strength and reliability of the system.

                                                   4
Further, placement of the monitoring system in or on the lock tends to provide a level of protection
from premature damage and enables the detection of product loss. The use of a monitoring device
associated with the lock can also detect events and/or relative movement between the product and
the base in ways different from monitoring devices on or in the ground-engaging product, such as,
for example, verification of proper lock installation.
[13]     In one embodiment of the invention, a lock for securing a ground-engaging product to a
base for earth working equipment has at least one recess for receiving a monitoring device. In one
example, one or more recesses may also be formed in the bit portion and/or mounting portion of a
point. In another example, the recess can be in a lock engageable by a tool to adjust the lock for
installation and removal of the product from the base.
[14]     In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device can be located in a structure outside
of the primary wear surfaces of the ground engaging product. In one embodiment, the monitoring
device can be located within a lifting eye for the ground engaging product.
[15]     In another aspect of the invention, one or more monitoring device may be disposed relative
to one or more surfaces of the ground engaging product subjected to wear such that the monitoring
device(s) can measure multiple locations on the product and/or multiple kinds of data (such as
wear, impact, etc.) experienced during digging.
[16]     In another aspect of the invention, ground engaging products are provided with removable
monitoring devices. The use of a temporary mounting arrangement permits, for example, the same
monitoring device to be used with different ground engaging products, different monitoring
devices with different sensors to be used collectively or independently in the same ground
engaging product, replacement of damaged or broken monitoring devices, and/or replacement of
monitoring devices with low or dead batteries. In one embodiment, a sensor may be secured in a
body that is mechanically attached to the product for easy and quick installation and removal. As
one example, a sensor may be retained in a mechanically attached lifting eye for a ground engaging
product. As another example, the sensor may be secured to resilient plug fit into recess.
[17]     In another aspect of the invention, each ground engaging product on a digging edge
includes at least one monitoring device. The monitoring devices are detected by each other and/or
a remote device to determine whether they are in established relative positions for the equipment
on which they are secured. Loss of a product member is detected when one monitoring device
deviates beyond a certain range from its established position, or orientation.

                                                   5
[18]    In another aspect of the invention, a product is provided with a monitoring device that
communicates wirelessly using any of a variety of radio frequency protocols. The particular
protocol may depend on the particular application and/or environment. A radio frequency device
in accordance with the present disclosure may transmit characteristics such as part ID, presence,
condition, usage and/or performance of the ground engaging product.
[19]    In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device is secured to a ground engaging
product to monitor characteristics such as part ID, presence, condition, usage and/or performance
of the ground engaging product. As examples, the at least one monitoring device may include one
or more sensors from a group consisting of radio frequency enabled modules, orientation sensors,
temperature sensors, accelerometers, proximity sensors, force sensors, and position sensors.
[20]    In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device secured to a ground engaging
product is used to detect its presence in a body of material (such as in the load of a haul truck,
dump pile, etc.). This feature can improve the ability to locate a lost ground engaging product and
reduce the risk of damaging or jamming downstream processing equipment (e.g., a crusher).
[21]    In another aspect of the invention, remote devices can be provided on other equipment
related to the monitored earth working equipment. In one embodiment, a remote device can be
provided on the top, side edge of a crusher hopper, a side edge of a haul truck tray, and the like, to
detect characteristics such as the presence of the ground engaging products on the bucket, tracking
the number of loads to fill the truck tray, monitor the speed of digging cycles, etc. In another
embodiment, a remote device can be provided on a truck, handheld device, other standalone
equipment, etc.
[22]    In another aspect of the invention, a remote device can provide an alert to an operator (e.g.,
of a digging machine or haul truck), remote supervisor, etc. to indicate at least one of the monitored
characteristics, e.g., the loss of a ground engaging product from a bucket, the presence of a ground
engaging product in the haul truck load, a ground engaging product approaching fully worn
condition, a ground engaging product exceeding target impact loads during use, etc.
[23]    In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device can provide real-time assessment
of characteristics of an operation. For example, the monitoring device can monitor the load
gathered in a bucket and in the truck tray being filled to provide information to the operator on
more efficiently filling the truck tray.

                                                   6
[24]    In another aspect of the invention, a monitoring device can be used to capture data usable
to map a mine site or other earth working site to estimate characteristics of the ground-engaging
products on earth working equipment used at the site. For example, the gathered data could be
used to generate contour-style mapping of wear rates for ground-engaging products to better
determine such things as product replacement schedules, costs, etc. The data could be used to map
other characteristics or process the site data in ways other than mapping to generate similar
information.
[25]    The various above-noted aspects and embodiments of the invention can be used
independently of each other or collectively with all or some of the different aspects of the
invention. The noted aspects are exemplary summary observations of certain ideas of the various
concepts of the invention and are not intended to be exhaustive or essential. To gain an improved
understanding of the advantages and features of the invention, reference may be made to the
following description and accompanying Figures that describe and illustrate various configurations
and concepts related to the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[26]    Figure 1 is a side view of a mining excavator.
[27]    Figure 2 is a perspective view of a hoe bucket.
[28]    Figure 3 is a perspective view of a lip of a bucket with teeth and shrouds.
[29]    Figure 4 is a perspective view of one of the tooth assemblies shown in Figure 3.
[30]    Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of the tooth assembly shown in Figure 4.
[31]    Figure 5A is a cross section view of the tip taken along line 5A-5A in Figure 5.
[32]    Figure 6 is an exploded perspective view of another example tooth assembly.
[33]    Figure 7A is a side view of the tooth assembly mounted on a lip.
[34]    Figure 7B is a scaled up partial cross-section view illustrating a monitoring device installed
in the tooth shown in Figure 7A.
[35]    Figure 8 is a side view of a first bucket with a remote device.

                                                   7
[36]    Figure 9 is a side view of a second bucket with a remote device.
[37]    Figure 10 is a side view of a vehicle with a remote device.
[38]    Figure 11 is a perspective view of a bucket and a handheld remote device.
[39]    Figure 12 is a side view of a mining excavator illustrating a number of signal paths.
[40]    Figure 13A is a side view of a bucket of a front loader and standalone device to pick up a
signal from a sensor
[41]    Figure 13B is a side view of a bucket of a front loader and a portion of a material receptacle.
[42]    Figure 14A is a schematic view illustrating an example monitoring device.
[43]    Figure 14B is a cutaway view illustrating an example monitoring device.
[44]    Figure 15 is a schematic view illustrating another example monitoring device.
[45]    Figure 16 is a perspective view of a pin component of a lock with a monitoring device.
[46]    Figure 17 is an exploded perspective view of the pin component.
[47]    Figure 18 is a cross-sectional view taken along line 18-18 in Figure 16.
[48]    Figure 19 is a perspective view of an alternative lock.
[49]    Figure 20 is a side view of the alternative lock with a monitoring device.
[50]    Figure 21 is a top view of a fines plug with a monitoring device.
[51]    Figure 22 is a top perspective view of the fines plug shown in Figure 21.
[52]    Figure 23 is a bottom perspective view of the fines plug shown in Figure 21.
[53]    Figure 24 is a side view of the fines plug shown in Figure 21.
[54]    Figure 25 is a sectional view of the fines plug taken along line 25-25 in Figure 21.
[55]    Figure 26 is a sectional view of a handling plug.
[56]    Figure 27 is a sectional view of a shroud with the handling plug of Fig. 26.

                                                   8
[57]    Figure 28 is a sectional view of a lifting eye with a wear monitoring device.
[58]    Figure 29 is a sectional view of another lifting eye with a monitoring device.
[59]    Figure 30 is a top view of a tip with the lifting eye of Fig. 28.
[60]    Figure 31 is a top view of a tip and adapter with lifting eyes of Fig. 28 attached.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[61]    The present invention pertains to products and monitoring systems for monitoring
characteristics such as the part identification, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of
ground-engaging products for use on earth working equipment. As examples, the system can be
used to monitor ground-engaging products secured to dozers, loaders, dragline machines, cable
shovels, face shovels, hydraulic excavators, dredge cutters, buckets, lips, blades, rippers, shear
drums, continuous miners, etc. Examples of such ground-engaging products include buckets, lips,
blades, points, adapters, intermediate adapters, shrouds, runners, picks, wear plate, truck trays, etc.
The system can identify and/or monitor characteristics including, e.g., the part ID, presence,
condition, usage and/or performance of one or more of the ground-engaging products on earth
working equipment.
[62]    Relative terms such as front, rear, top, bottom and the like are used for convenience of
discussion. The terms front or forward are generally used to indicate the usual direction of travel
of the ground engaging product relative to the earthen material during use (e.g., while digging),
and upper or top are generally used as a reference to the surface over which the material generally
passes when, for example, it is gathered into the bucket. Nevertheless, it is recognized that in the
operation of various earth working equipment the ground engaging products may be oriented in
various ways and move in all kinds of directions during use.
[63]    For ease of discussion, this application generally discusses monitoring a ground engaging
product on a base secured to an excavating bucket, and in particular monitoring one kind of
excavating tooth. However, the invention could be used to identify or monitor other kinds of teeth,
other kinds of ground-engaging products, and products on various types of earth working
equipment. As examples only, the monitoring system may monitor a point on an adapter, a point
on an intermediate adapter, an intermediate adapter on an adapter or integral cast nose, a shroud
on a lip or base, a lip on a bucket, a wear runner on a bucket, modular wear pads, a blade on a
mold board, a bucket on a boom, teeth on a dredge cutter head, picks on a shearer drum, wear plate

                                                   9
on a bucket, liners on a chute or truck tray, a truck tray on a haul truck, and the like. The ground
engaging products may be attached to various other ground engaging products, and may be
attached using mechanical attachments, including locks and the like, or may be welded, adhered,
or otherwise secured in place.
[64]     As an example, a mining excavator 1 is equipped with a bucket 3 for gathering earthen
material while digging (Fig. 1). The bucket 3 includes a frame or shell 4 defining a cavity 16 for
gathering material during the digging operation (Fig. 2). Shell 4 includes a top wall 6 having
attachment supports 8 to attach the bucket 3 to excavator 1, a bottom wall 10 opposite the top wall
6, a rear wall 12, and a pair of opposing sidewalls 14. Multiple configurations of buckets are
known and variations in bucket geometry exist for excavating buckets and, of course, other
excavating machines. For example, the bucket may not have a top wall as in a dragline bucket,
the bottom wall may be hinged as in a dipper bucket, or a portion of the side walls may be hinged
as in a hydraulic face shovel. The specific geometry of the bucket is not intended to be limiting
as the present system can be used with various types of buckets and with various types of ground
engaging products used on the buckets or other earth working equipment.
[65]     In this embodiment, bucket 3 has a digging edge 5 (Figs. 2-3, 5 and 7). The digging edge
is that portion of the equipment that leads the contact with the ground and in an excavator bucket
is generally formed by a lip. Sidewalls 14 of a bucket 3 commonly also form a portion of the
digging edge and at times include wear parts. Teeth and/or shrouds are often secured to the digging
edge to protect the edge and break up the ground ahead of the bucket 3. Multiple tooth assemblies
7 and shrouds 9, such as disclosed in US Patent No. 9,222,243, which is incorporated by reference
in its entirety, may be attached to lip 5 of bucket 3. The illustrated tooth 7, provided only as an
example, includes an adapter 11 welded to lip 5, an intermediate adapter 13 mounted on
adapter 11, and a point (also called a tip) 15 mounted on intermediate adapter 13 (Figs. 1-5 and 7).
Point 15 includes a rearward-opening cavity 18 in a mounting portion to receive nose 17, and a
front end or bit portion 19 to penetrate the ground (Fig. 5). Locks (also called retainers) 21 are
used to secure point 15 to intermediate adapter 13, and intermediate adapter 13 to a nose 23 of the
adapter 11. In this embodiment, the locks 21 are all the same but they would not need to be. Other
tooth arrangements are possible (See, e.g., Fig. 6).
[66]     When a ground engaging product becomes unexpectedly separated from the base or the
ground engaging product reaches a minimum recommended wear condition (e.g., the ground
engaging product is considered fully worn), the ground engaging product is replaced so production

                                                   10
does not decrease and the base, upon which the ground engaging product is attached, does not
experience unnecessary wear.
[67]     In one embodiment, a monitoring device 25 is provided to monitor a ground-engaging
product (in this case, tip 15 on intermediate adapter 13) mounted on a bucket (Figs. 2-5). A
plurality of monitoring devices 25 could be provided in a single product 15 to monitor the wear
(or other characteristic) on different surfaces or at different portions of the same surface, or to
monitor different characteristics of the use (e.g, wear, impact, strain, etc.). Additionally, a plurality
of monitoring devices 25 could be provided to monitor multiple ground engaging products (points,
intermediate adapters, etc.) connected to the bucket.
[68]     Monitoring device 25 may generally include: one or more electronic devices or sensors 35
for identifying characteristics such as part ID, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of
the ground engaging product; a communication device 36 (e.g., a transmitter and/or receiver) for
communicating information to and/or from the monitoring device to or from a remote device 38
(discussed below); and a battery 37. These can be different components working together or they
may be combined (e.g., with the sensor 35 and transmission device 36 being the same component).
Monitoring devices 25 also could have other constructions. For example, monitoring devices can
include multiple sensors for redundancy or sensing other characteristics (e.g., high impact events,
digging cycles, etc.), a receiver for receiving information from a remote device, storage mediums
for holding data (e.g., the part ID), a GPS device, and/or a microprocessor for processing data or
other information. A monitoring device 25 may also be a passive system without a transmitter or
battery.
[69]     Monitoring devices 25 may communicate with a remote device 38, which simply means a
device remote from the monitoring device 25. The remote device 38 can be secured to a different
portion of the ground engaging product being monitored. For example, when the ground engaging
product is a bucket 3, the monitoring device 25 could be in a ground-engaging portion of a sidewall
14 and the remote device 38 could be on the top wall 6 of the bucket 3. The remote device 38
could be indirectly connected to the monitored ground engaging product. For example, the
monitoring device 25 could be retained in a tip 15 and the remote device 38 could be on the bucket
3 (Figs. 8-9), on the boom 2, on the stick 20, or in the cab 24 of the digging machine 1. The remote
device 38 could also be separately supported such as on a service truck (Fig. 19), drone, handheld
device 39 (Fig. 11), station, etc. (Figs. 10-11). A single remote device 38 may be used or a
collection of remote devices 38 working together or separately may be used. As examples, a

                                                  11
remote device may include a processer (PC, microprocessor, etc.), a database, a transmitter, a
receiver, etc. The remote device 38 may communicate with additional sensors on the ground
engaging product, other ground engaging products, multiple ground engaging products, earth
working equipment 1 and/or with a database or computer. The remote device 38, for example,
may be a wireless device or a wired device.
[70]    The monitoring device 25 and the remote device 38 can be designed to communicate with
each other in different ways and no one particular way is needed. For example, the monitoring
device 25 could be designed to only transmit information and the remote device 38 designed to
only receive information from the monitoring device 25. In other examples, the monitoring device
25 and the remote device 38 could be designed to communicate back and forth with each other.
The communication may use various communication protocols, for example, without limitation,
continuous, event driven, on demand, batch communication. Irrespective of the manner or timing
of the communication, the information can be received and processed historically or as a real-time
assessment. For example, if the signal is only available during a portion of the digging cycle, the
remote device can still receive batch information of all the characteristics detected when the signal
could not be accessed.
[71]    The remote device 38 and the monitoring device 25 may on their own, collectively, and/or
with other devices, and/or software applications, and the like (e.g., data from a database 194 in,
for example, a cloud database, other processors, etc.) store, process and/or communicate
information related to characteristics such as part ID, usage, condition, performance and/or
presence of the ground engaging product on earth working equipment (Fig. 12). Information
related to the part ID of ground engaging product can include such things as ground engaging
product type, product number, customer number, brand name, trademark, manufacturer, bill of
materials, etc. Information related to usage of the ground engaging product can include such things
as the kind of machine using the ground engaging product, time the ground engaging product went
into service, how many digging cycles the ground engaging product has experienced, average time
of the digging cycle, location of the ground engaging product on the machine, impact events, etc.
The part ID may be used as search criteria in order to retrieve additional information regarding the
specific ground engaging product. The search criteria may be used to query one or more relational
databases and/or broader data structures. Information related to condition of the ground engaging
product can include such things as wear, strain in the ground engaging product, etc. Information
related to performance can include such things as the rate of digging, force needed to penetrate the
ground, tons moved per each increment of wear, etc. These characteristics could also be used in

                                                  12
connection with information regarding the mine geology, material fragmentation and/or other
information for, e.g., determining timetables for excavating material, replacement schedules for
ground engaging products, etc. Devices 25 can also be used to detect ground engaging product
loss (i.e., presence of the ground engaging product). These monitored characteristics are given as
examples only and are not intended to be limiting. Information may be shared with, i.e. sent to
and received from, various other machines including programmable logic, other networks, and
used with various software applications, and routines.
[72]     In one embodiment, the ground-engaging product 15 includes an external surface 40
having a top surface 42, a bottom surface 44 and side surfaces 46 (Figs. 5-7). A cavity 18 is formed
to open in the rear end of the product 15 to receive the base 13 for mounting the product on the
equipment. A lock opening 48 is formed in the product to receive a lock 21 that holds the product
to the base 13 (Fig. 5). In one embodiment, a recess 50 is defined in the external surface 40 of the
product for receiving a monitoring device 25 (Fig. 5A).          In the illustrated embodiment, a
monitoring device is provided in a recess 50C in the mounting portion of tip 15, and in a recess
50D in a working portion or bit portion of tip 15. Product 15 may include only one or more than
two recesses and monitoring devices. As discussed further below, in other embodiments, a recess
50 may also, or instead, be defined in a component of the assembly that may be located proximate
the external surface 40. Components with a monitoring device 25 may include, but may not be
limited to, locks 21, lifting eyes 22, and/or plugs 75. The component(s) may in turn be located in
an appropriate recess or socket of the assembly. In any of the embodiments, the monitoring device
25 is preferably positioned proximate the external surface 40 and outward of the mounting cavity
18 to lessen the signal blocking effects of the heavy steel walls of the ground engaging product
(though the monitoring device can be differently positioned relative to the ground engaging
product). In the illustrated embodiment, monitoring devices 25 in recesses 50C, 50D are both
outward of the mounting cavity 18. This arrangement enables the signal transmitted to or by
monitoring device 25 to be more easily and reliably received by remote device 38 or monitoring
device 25 to provide a more reliably received signal for the system as compared to installing
monitoring device 25 on the inside of the part, e.g., within the mounting cavity 18 of the product
as has been done in prior systems. This same benefit would exist for a monitoring device receiving
signals from the remote device or other monitoring devices. The monitoring device 25 can
generally survive the rigors associated with an earth working operation in a more shallow recess
and does not need to be placed in an innermost portion of the ground engaging product. Past
systems have generally suffered from reliability in detecting loss and wear of ground engaging

                                                    13
products resulting in false alarms and undetected loss or wear. Reliability can be improved by
moving the monitoring device 25 or at least the communication device (e.g., a transmitter and/or
receiver) of the monitoring device 25 closer to the external surface of the ground engaging product
(i.e., outside of the inner surface). While the recess 50 can be a blind hole, it need not be. Generally,
at least the communication device 36 (e.g., a transmitter) of the monitoring device is located just
far enough into the ground engaging product to avoid being worn away during the expected useful
life of the ground engaging product. Depending on the sensor 35, the sensor portion of the
monitoring device can lie below the maximum wear point or can extend into the wearable portion
and be worn away during use. Alternatively, the monitoring device 25 can be positioned entirely
within the wearable portion if it is intended to only provide monitoring for a portion of the useful
life of the ground engaging product.
[73]     U.S. Patent Application 2014/0311762 discloses a sensor within the mounting cavity of the
wear part to measure the level of wear in the part. Fitting the sensor at the inner end of the cavity
protects the sensor from wear and damage. However, the signal is at risk of being lost and not
successfully transmitted to the processor on account of blockage by the heavy steel of the ground
engaging product, the ground the ground engaging product engages, and/or the bulk, electronics,
hydraulics, etc. of the earth working equipment. Similarly, PCT Application WO 2012/0122587
discloses a system for monitoring wear in a liner or other ground engaging product by installing a
sensor through the thickness of the part and connecting the remote end of the sensor to a processor
for determining the level of wear. The remote end can connect to the processor via a cable or a
wireless connection. However, the use of a cable to hard wire the sensor to the processor is not
feasible in many earth working operations, and similar wireless communication difficulties exist
by locating the transmitter on the inside of the wear part.
[74]     In one embodiment, the sensor 35 is a wearable resistor ladder 52 positioned in a recess 50
defined in a bottom surface 44 of tip 15 (Figs. 5A and 14A). As the surface 40A wears resistors
52A are disconnected. Resistors 52B below an unworn surface 40B remain in the circuit 53. As
the resistor ladder 52 wears, the resistance changes providing an indication of the amount or degree
of wear that the ground engaging product has experienced. A transmitter 36 and a battery 37 are
provided at, or near, the base 54 of the recess 50 to send a signal to the remote device 38. A
processing, and/or memory device may be included. A micro-control unit (MCU) 199 is illustrated
in this example embodiment. The MCU may optionally include a processor and a storage device
to process and store data from the sensor, and/or other data devices in the system in accordance
with the disclosure. The MCU may optionally include an onboard antenna. The monitoring device

                                                  14
25 may provide collected data using various mechanism, and may be, for example, an active
responder, or a passive responder. The monitoring device 25 may be a near field communicator
(NFC). Other variations are possible. For example, a circuit board with a series of wired loops
could be used. As another example, a pair of elongate capacitor plates 56 could extend along the
sides of the recess and wear away as the ground engaging product wears (Fig. 15). A metering
device 55 may measure the capacitance, resistance or other value. A cylindrical capacitor having
concentric plates may also, or instead, be used. A plurality of discrete capacitors or other devices
may also, or instead, be used. Other kinds of sensors (e.g., ultrasonic) could be used to measure
the degree of wear or other desired characteristic of the ground engaging product or its use.
Monitoring device 25 could also be a passive system that is detected by signals transmitted by the
remote device.
[75]    Recess 50 may be filled in with a filler or body 31 in the form of resin, polymer or other
suitable material once the monitoring device 25 has been installed within the recess. The filler 31
may be a dielectric material. The monitoring device 25 may be secured by means other than the
body (e.g., an adhesive, mechanical means, etc.) or secured in the recess by body 31. In one
embodiment, body 31 is a polymer selected from a group consisting of elastomers, thermoplastics,
and thermosets. In alternative embodiments, the recess 50 may be filled in with a material other
than polymers or may not be filled in. Securing the devices 25 in a polymer and/or filling the
recess 50 with a polymer may further protect the device 25 from fines, vibration and impact as the
ground engaging product engages the material to be excavated and/or secure the monitoring device
in the recess.
[76]    The monitoring device 25 sends, e.g., a continual, intermittent, batch, or event driven signal
concerning, e.g., the characteristic of the ground-engaging product 15. In the illustrated example,
the signal is received by a receiver 60, which in this example includes an antenna of the remote
device 38 mounted on the boom 2 of the excavator 1 (Fig. 12). An antenna 60 can be provided in
other positions and mounted on different supports (e.g., on the bucket 3, in the cab 24, etc.) in lieu
of or in addition to the antenna on the boom. An antenna 60 on the boom 2 is provided in this
embodiment to improve the reliability of receiving the signal from monitoring device 38. The
antenna 60 on the cab 24 in this embodiment is shown wired 197 to a processor 198 in the cab 24
but could have a different connection. For example, an antenna or other receiver could be mounted
in the cab, on a truck, on a handheld device 39, etc. The antenna 60 could be coupled to a wireless
transmitter such that the information received from the monitoring device 25 and sent to the remote
device 38 in the cab, may be provided to and/or combined with data from a handheld device 39,

                                                   15
cloud database 194, other data sources, etc. to provide helpful information and analysis. Multiple
antennas and/or remote devices 38 could be used to increase the reliability of picking up the signal
if desired or needed for the particular operation. For example, a remote device may also be located
on the stick 20. The processor 198, or other elements of the system, may be operatively coupled
with an Engine Control Unit ECU 200. The ECU 200 may provide or receive information from
the processor 198 and/or directly from the sensor(s) 35. The ECU 200 may provide data pertaining
to, but not limited to, engine torque, fuel consumption, atmospheric temperature, engine
temperature and the like. The ECU data may be coupled with sensor data, and/or data from other
sources, and processed by the processor to provide various outputs.
[77]     This embodiment provides a relatively unobstructed signal path 62 for the monitoring
device 25 to provide information to remote device 38, i.e., by way of the antenna 60 of remote
device 38. Nevertheless, other variations are possible that have more obstructions, limited time
periods where signals can be received, etc. In cases where signals can only be received at certain
times, monitoring device 25 and/or remote device 38 may transmit only during certain times (e.g.,
when the bucket is oriented in a particular way, when a trigger signal is received, etc.) or may
continue to transmit continually. Further, multiple remote devices and/or antennas could be used
to receive information from the monitoring device continually or during longer periods even if the
signal can only be accessed by the antenna on the boom 2 during certain intervals. A remote device
may receive a signal from a monitoring device and relay the signal to a second or third remote
device. Any number of remote devices may be used to relay the signals as needed. The movement
of the digging machine 1, including the individual articulated components thereof, and/or other
vehicles at the worksite may tend to establish and reestablish the interrelationships of the sensors
and communication devices. In this way, various and numerous communication paths may be
established despite the great number of potentially shielding surfaces at the worksite.
[78]     In one other embodiment, a monitoring device 25 is located in a recess in a bottom surface
44 of a tip 15 for a bucket 3 on earth working equipment such as a wheel loader. A remote device
38 may be located on, for example, a standalone stanchion 64A (Fig. 13A) or an edge of a crusher
hopper 64B (Fig. 13B) (or other receptacle) to pick up a signal from the monitoring device. Figure
13B shows the bucket 3 having just dumped a load of material into the hopper 64B. In doing so,
the product 15 with a monitoring device 25 passes over remote device 38 in the hopper 64B in
wireless communication with the remote device. The remote device 38 on the stanchion 64A or
the hopper 64B, or the like can be in addition to, or in lieu of, one or more remote devices located
on the earth working equipment, service truck, etc. Remote devices 38 can be in other locations as

                                                   16
well. For example, a remote device(s) could be on a stanchion, or threshold device, through which
haul trucks pass to detect when a separated ground engaging product is within the bed of material
carried in the truck tray. As another example, a remote device could be provided on a truck tray to
monitor when the bucket dumps a load into the truck tray (like as disclosed for hopper 64B). The
device 25 may also provide data that is subject to real-time processing to assist, e.g., in efficient
loading of a truck tray. For example, the system may provide information to the operator on the
load to gather (e.g., half a bucket) to completely fill the awaiting haul truck. The device 25 can
work in harmony with additional devices configured in accordance with the disclosure, and/or with
other machine based sensors including, but not limited to, inclinometers, hydraulic pressure
sensors, etc.
[79]    In this way various characteristics (e.g., wear) can be monitored in a plurality of ways to
improve reliability, though multiple remote devices is not necessary. Providing truck tray 64 with
a remote device 38 may also permit other characteristics to be monitored such as time between
dumping cycles, number of dumps per truck load, height of bucket above the truck tray edge, etc.
Other sensors located, e.g., on the top surface 42 (or other component or the lip) can measure other
characteristics such as time to dump the load, the speed at which the material dumps from the
bucket, etc. The signals from these sensors may be picked up by a remote device on the machine,
on the truck tray or elsewhere.
[80]    Various embodiments may locate one or more remote devices 38 at predetermined points
on the digging machine 1 and/or other vehicles and pieces of equipment. Various embodiments
may provide mobile and handheld devices with remote devices.            Embodiments may provide
electronic canvassing of the sensors and/or communication devices to inventory the data collected.
The data may be combined with previously known data and/or data collected from other locations.
One or more programmable logic devices may be utilized to manipulate the data into various
machine usable and human usable formats.
[81]    Recesses 50 and monitoring devices 25 can similarly be provided in other kind s of ground
engaging ground engaging products such as the lip 5 (Fig. 7A). The monitoring device in the lip
can, e.g., identify wear (e.g., with an ultrasonic sensor), impact events, digging cycles, etc. Other
similar ground-engaging implements such as blades, bucket sidewalls, etc. could also be provided
with similar recesses and monitoring devices.
[82]    Figures 5B and 6 shows a monitoring device 25 including a sensor 35 in a recess or cavity
220 located at a top rear corner of tooth 15a. The monitoring device 25 may be positioned in a

                                                   17
bore 220 defined along the rear wall 222 of the tooth (Fig. 14B). In this example, hole 220 has an
open channel 228 in rear wall 224 and opens in the top surface 224 of the mounting cavity. The
channel 228 being open on one side provides a relatively unobstructed signal path for signals sent
to or by monitoring device and/or antenna 36. In this embodiment, hole is closed along its top
end, but could be open. The hole is preferably filled with a resin or other material as the body 31.
The monitoring device 25 may include a sensor such as a resistor ladder 52 or multi-loop circuit.
The monitoring device 25 may be positioned in hole 220 formed into the tooth 15a such as in a
casting operation. The hole or hollow may also be formed in other ways, such as by machining.
The hollow may extend from the top surface to the cavity 18 but need not. In other cases, the
monitoring device may be form fitted over a portion of the tooth or other ground engaging product.
[83]     In another embodiment, Figure 7B illustrates a monitoring device including an extended
portion 244 located in a hole 246 configured to wear as the tooth 15 wears. The monitoring device
25 can be secured in recess 242 in various ways including, e.g., a mechanical attachment, welding,
resin, etc. As examples, the monitoring device can include a sensor for detecting data regarding a
characteristic, a transmitter and/or receiver, a battery, a microprocessor, a storage device and/or a
GPS device. A hole may optionally be drilled or otherwise formed forward of recess 242 to receive
a sensor (e.g., a resistor ladder) to monitor wear of the point. In this example, the hole extends at
least forward of the fully worn condition, though other lengths could be used. The hole can extend
toward the front end of the point or be at an angle upward toward the exterior wear surface.
[84]     In one other embodiment, monitoring device 25 is provided in a lock 21, such as a lock
disclosed in US Patent 9,222,243. The monitoring device 25 can be provided in only the lock or
in the lock and one or more recess in the wearable surface 40 of the product 15. In another example,
a monitoring device 25 could be secured in each of a pair of locks securing a product such as
intermediate adapter 13 in place (Figs. 16-18).
[85]     Returning briefly to Fig. 5, locks 21 are shown in a partially assembled configuration
wherein, for each lock 21, a pin 150 is threaded into a collar 122. The collar 122 can be inserted
into through-hole 48 in the tip 15 and a pin 150 threaded into the collar to extend into a mating
hole 49 in the nose 17 to secure the tip 15 onto the nose 17. The pin 150 could be secured without
a collar. Referring now to Figs. 16-18, the pin 150 includes a head 152 and a threaded shank 154.
A recess 50 opens in an outside face 158 of the head 152. The recess 50 includes a main portion
160 and a side portion 162, though other arrangements are possible. The main portion 160 is

                                                 18
shaped and adapted to receive a tool (not shown) for turning the pin 150 for installation and
removal of the product.
[86]    A monitoring device 25 is located within the side portion 162. In one example, device 25
includes a sensor 35 mounted on a substrate 34 such as a printed circuit board. A transmitter 36
and a battery 37 are also mounted on the substrate 34. Other components may be mounted, or
coupled with the substrate, such as a logic device. The substrate 34, sensor 35, transmitter 36 and
the battery 37 are preferably embedded in a body 31, which in this embodiment is a resin though
other arrangements are possible. Another embodiment, not shown may include, a battery 37
provided at or near the inner end or bottom of the recess 50, e.g., beyond the depth needed for
electronic device 35 and transmitter 36. In one example, the battery is a % AA battery but other
kinds of batteries or energy sources can be used. An electronic device 35 is provided in the side
portion 162 of the recess. In this embodiment, the chip is the sensor and the transmitter, and the
transmitter is, e.g., a radio communication device. In this case also the battery and the chip are
preferably embedded in a body 31, which may be a resin. The resin fixes the battery and chip in
the recess, protects the components of the monitoring device from earthen material and vibration,
and overlies the battery to shield the battery from insertion of a tool to adjust the lock between
hold and release positions. The battery and the chip could be provided in separate recesses. The
recess or multiple recesses could be unique for the monitoring device and not have a dual purpose
such as receiving a tool. One or more chips or other electronic devices could be provided in the
recess. A wire or other arrangement extend through the body to electronically connect the chip to
the battery. Other arrangements are possible. The one or more electronic device 35 is provided to
monitor characteristics such as part ID, presence, condition, usage and/or performance of the
ground engaging product to which it is attached.
[87]    Locks 21 are generally positioned along the exterior of a product to be accessible by an
operator for movement between its hold and release positions, which may be different positions
while secured to the product, or may be inserted and removed positions. By providing the
monitoring device 25 in (or on) the lock 21, rather than within the mounting cavity of the product,
signal blockage caused by the steel (or other material) of the ground engaging product is reduced.
A stronger, more reliable signal(s) from the monitoring device(s) reduces the risk of losing the
signal(s) or receiving false reads, and provides more flexibility in the positioning of the remote
device. Nevertheless, monitoring devices 25 secured to locks could be positioned within the
mounting cavity 18 when monitoring conditions, e.g., of cavity wear or relative movement
between the product and the base.

                                                  19
[88]     In another embodiment, a monitoring device 25 is secured to a lock 21 with or in the form
of a plug 75 (Figs. 5, 21-25). In this example, plug 75 is received into recess 50 to resist entry of
earthen fines into the recess 50 in lock 21 during use of the earth working equipment. In another
example, the plug can cover the entire opening receiving the lock to provide protection against the
entry of fines in the opening. A plug with a monitoring device can be in lieu of or in addition to
the monitoring device in side portion 162 of the recess in the pin. Plug 75 can be removed when a
tool (e.g., for removal of the product 15) needs to be inserted into recess 50. In this embodiment,
at least one monitoring device 25 is secured to, or within, a plug body 76. In the illustrated
embodiment, the plug member 75 is the body for the monitoring device 25. In other embodiments,
monitoring device 25 may, e.g., be encased in a body that is then secured to the plug body 76. A
plug 75 of this kind could also be secured into a recess 50 defined directly into an external surface
40 of product 15.
[89]     The monitoring device(s) 25 or sensor(s) 35 are preferably embedded in the body 76 but
could be secured in other ways. In one embodiment, only one device 35 is embedded within body
76 (Fig. 22).     In an alternative embodiment, more than one device 25 is embedded within the
body. Each device 25 may be embedded in a bottom end 63 of body 76 to minimize the impact
on performance and from the environment in which the device 25 is used.
[90]     Body 76 is a removable member that may be inserted and removed from recesses within
the product 7, though it could be fixed if received in a recess that did not receive a tool. Securing
the device 25 to a body 76 that is removable allows the device 25 to be temporarily installed in a
product 15 or lock 21 (e.g., the device 25 may be used with multiple products 15 during the life of
the device 25). Body 76 is preferably made of a polymer though other materials can be used. In
one preferred embodiment, the polymer is selected from a group consisting of elastomers,
thermoplastics, and thermosets. In one embodiment, the body 76 is an elastomer. The elastomeric
body may also be one part of a plug that may consist of parts composed of other materials.
[91]     In the illustrated embodiments, the plug 75 has a top end 61 and a bottom end 63 (Figures
22-25). Bottom end 63 is preferably shaped to generally match the shape of recess 50A. This
minimizes that amount of fines that may be introduced into the recess when the product 15 is used.
It should be appreciated that recess 50 may have a variety of shapes and bottom end 63 may have
a variety of shapes to generally correspond to the shapes of the recesses.              In alternative
embodiments, the body 76 may have a shape that is varied from the shape of the recess in which
it is received. Inserting plug 75 into a recess of the lock works to mitigate the collection of fines

                                                    20
in the lock opening for easier release of the lock in addition to the plug also functioning as a
monitoring device. Plug 75 could be inserted into other recesses having other specific purposes,
or provided for the sole purpose of receiving plug 75 in the lock or product.
[92]     In the illustrated embodiment, the bottom end 63 has one or more retainers 69 to hold the
body 76 within the recess 50. In Figures 22-25, the retainers 69 are shown as ribs that generally
extend around the sides of the outer edges of the bottom end 63. The body 76 is secured within
the recess 50 via an interference fit so that the ribs of retainers 69 contact the sides of the recess to
secure the body 76 within the recess 50. Other retainers are possible and the ribs are only one
example of a retainer that may be used to secure the body within the recess. Other ways of securing
the body within the recess 50 are possible. For example, the retainer 69 may be a series of helical
ridges that correspond to grooves in the recess. The body 76 may be rotated so that the retainer
69 engages the corresponding grooves in the recess. Alternatively, as an example, one or more
latches could be used to secure the plug 75 in place. Further, retainers could be formed in the
recess instead of or in addition to retainers on the plug 75.
[93]     Bottom end 63 preferably has a removal feature 71 to remove the plug 75 from the recess
50. In the embodiment illustrated in Figs. 21-22, a removal tool engages removal feature 71 to
pry the body 76 out of the recess. The removal tool, for example, may be a pry bar or another tool
capable of prying the body out of the recess. Other removal features are possible and the body
may be rotated, pivoted or otherwise removed from the recess in which it is received. In alternative
embodiments, the body may be removed with a removal feature located outside of the bottom end.
In this embodiment the removal feature 71 is configured as a cavity having a bottom portion sized
and located to receive and house the monitoring device 25, including a sensor, and other
components. The device 25 and other components may be embedded in body 31, for example a
resin.
[94]     In the illustrated embodiments, the top end 61 is shown as being wider than the bottom end
63 and defining a cap or top flange. A top end 61 that is wider than the bottom end 63 may
minimize fines collecting between the body and the recess. In alterative embodiments, the top end
may have a width that generally matches the width of the bottom end or may have a width that is
smaller than the bottom end. Top end 61 is generally planar and has a generally circular shape;
other shapes are possible.

                                                  21
[95]     In the embodiment illustrated in Figs. 21, 21, and 25, top end 61 has a removal feature 65
that may be used by an operator to pull or pry the body 31A out of the recess. The operator may
manually grab the removal feature 65 with one or both hands or may use a tool to engage the
removal feature 65. In the illustrated embodiment, the removal feature 65 is shown as a tab that
is flush with the top surface 61 of the body, though other configurations are possible. The removal
feature 65 may be engaged and moved in an outward direction away from the recess so that the
removal feature 65 is above the top surface 61 of the body. The removal feature 65 may be used
to initially effect movement of the body out of the recess, and removal feature 71 may be used to
completely remove the body 76 from the recess. In alternative embodiments, the removal feature
65 may be used to completely remove the body from the recess. In alterative embodiments, the
top end 61 may not have a removal feature 65 or an alternative removal feature may be used to
remove the body from the recess 50. For example, the top end 61 may have a removal feature (not
shown) in the form of a recess or protrusion that is designed to be engaged with a tool. The tool
may engage the removal feature to rotate the body out of the recess 50.
[96]     As noted above, the recess for receiving plug 75 (i.e., the monitoring device) may be a
recess 50 in a product 15, a recess 162 in a lock 21, a portion of a recess 71 in a plug 75, or a
recess 51 in the base 13 (Fig. 5). The recesses may be pre-established for other reasons and not
be specifically designed for receiving the monitoring device. For example, the recess may be a
recess in a lock that is designed to receive a removal tool to adjust the lock during installation and
removal of the product 15. When the product is not being removed or installed, the recess may be
used to receive the monitoring device in the form of plug 75.          When the lock 21 needs to be
adjusted, the plug 75 may be removed from the recess 50.
[97]     In alternative embodiments, the recess may be a recess 50 specifically designed for
receiving a plug having the configuration of plug 75 (Fig. 7A) or another configuration. The recess
may have a variety of shapes. Preferably, the recess has a shape that generally corresponds to
body of the plug, although other configurations are possible. The recess 50 is preferably located
in or adjacent an exterior surface 40 of the ground engaging product in which it is received so that
signal blockage due to the metal of the ground engaging product is reduced. In some embodiments,
the recess specifically designed for receiving the plug may be located, e.g., in a lock, a point, an
intermediate adapter, an adapter, a nose of a cast lip, a shroud, a lip, a blade, a wear runner, a truck
liner, bucket or other ground engaging product of other kinds of earth working equipment. In
addition, the recesses can be located where the body will experience minimal wear. In alternative
embodiments, the body may be placed in a location that is known to experience wear so that the

                                                  22
monitoring device experiences wear and the monitoring device may detect the wear of the product
15.
[98]     In another embodiment, as a second lock-style example, monitoring device 25 is retained
in a lock 21A such as disclosed in U.S. Patent 7,536,811, which is herein incorporated by reference
in its entirety. Lock 21A includes a pair of lock bodies 102 pivotally joined together (Figs. 19
20). Briefly, the lock bodies 102 pivot such that their outer ends 104 move toward each other so
the lock can be inserted into the inlet of an opening in a product such as a shroud 9. The lock
expands to a linear position when in the opening so the lock is longer than the inlet of the opening.
A tapered, threaded retainer 106 is installed at the seam between the bodies 102 to prevent relative
movement of the bodies 102 when the lock is inserted in the opening to prevent removal of the
lock from the opening of the product. At least one of the lock bodies 102 includes a recess 50A.
In one embodiment, monitoring device 25 includes an electronic device, such as sensor 35, and a
battery 37 in the recess 50B. A body 31 encapsulates a chip (acting as the sensor and the
transmitter) and battery to protect them. Body 31 can be a resin or other material. The monitoring
device 25 could be secured and/or protected in the recess 50A in other ways. In one embodiment
the monitoring device 25 is disposed in the threaded retainer 106.
[99]     In a digging operation, the ground engaging product experiences loading and impact from
various directions, and in a wide range of severity and duration. The lock securing the product is
affected by the various loads through stresses, movement, vibration, jostling, etc. that can be
detected and monitored by the monitoring device. Through this process, the monitoring device
and/or remote device can determine, e.g., the condition of the ground engaging product when the
gathered information is processed by programmable logic, e.g., in consideration of the type of
ground engaging product, the kind of earthen material (e.g., abrasiveness, hardness, etc.), the earth
working machine etc. to determine the anticipated useful life of the ground engaging product
(and/or base). When coupled with information concerning operation of the machine, and/or
worksite, an anticipated replacement date can be determined to permit efficient planning for
ground engaging product replacement. The monitoring device can, for example, be used to detect
the number of passes of the bucket through earthen material. The monitoring device can also be
used to detect the loads, stresses, duration of loading, etc. in the ground-engaging product to
determine, for example, penetrability and digging rate. The monitoring device can also be used to
determine the presence or absence of a product on the earth working equipment.

                                                   23
[100]    The monitoring device 25 can also be provided outside the primary wearable exterior
surface 40 of the ground engaging product. In one embodiment, a monitoring device can be in the
form of a lifting eye 22 (Figs. 5-6, 28-31). Due to the size and weight, the larger ground engaging
products may have a lifting eye 22 to connect the ground engaging product to a lifting device in
order to maneuver the ground engaging product from one place to another. These lifting eyes 22
may be an integral part of the ground engaging product formed during the manufacturing of the
ground engaging product (Fig. 5) or may be mechanically separable from the ground engaging
products, as disclosed in US Patent Publication 2015/0013134, which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety. Figures 26 and 27 are cross-section views showing a handling plug 250
fitted into a collar 252 fastened into a hole in a shroud 9. A lifting eye (discussed below) may be
removed from the collar 252 after it is no longer needed to lift the shroud 9, whereupon the
handling plug 250 may be installed. The handling plug 250 may include a sensor 35 in accordance
with the disclosure.
[101]    In the illustrated embodiment, the monitoring device 25 includes a lifting eye 22 in which
is secured a monitoring device 25 including a plurality of devices or sensors 35 (Figs. 28-29). The
devices or sensors 35 are embedded in the mounting portion of the lifting eye 22 but could be
secured in other ways and to other portions of the lifting eye device. In one embodiment, only one
device 35 is embedded within lifting eye 22.          The electronic device 35 is, in this example,
embedded in a mounting end 163 of a mechanically separable lifting eye 22 to minimize the effects
of the environment in which the device 25 is used. In alternative embodiments, the device may be
secured to a lifting eye that is cast or otherwise manufactured as part of the ground engaging
product and/or may be secured to the working end 161 of the lifting eye 22 that is used for
maneuvering the ground engaging product. The lifting eye 22 can form the body 31 for monitoring
device 25, or the monitoring device 25 can be encapsulated in a body that is, in turn, secured in
the lifting eye 22.
[102]    Lifting eye 22 is similar to the lifting eyes disclosed in US Patent Publication
No. 2015/0013134. Other shapes are possible. In this embodiment, the lifting eye 22 is removable
such that the lifting eye may be inserted and removed from holes within the product 7. The lifting
eye 22 is mechanically secured and mechanically separable from the ground engaging product.
Securing device 25 to a lifting eye 22 that is removable allows the monitoring device 25 to be
temporarily installed in a replaceable product 15. In addition, the lifting eye 22 can be used with
a variety of different types of ground engaging products with minimal modification to existing
ground engaging products (e.g., the ground engaging products can be manufactured or retrofitted

                                                  24
with an additional recess or hole to receive the lifting eye or may utilize an existing recess or hole
to receive the lifting eye). In alternative embodiments, the device 25 and/or lifting eye 22 may be
permanently secured to the ground engaging product and may not be removable.
[103]    In one example, the lifting eye 22 of device 25 is secured within a recess or hole 133 in the
ground-engaging product 15 (as discussed below). In the illustrated embodiments, the lifting
eye 22 has a working end 161 for engaging lifting devices and a mounting end 163 to secure the
lifting eye to the product (Figs. 28-31). As disclosed in US Patent Publication 2015/0013134, a
collar (not shown) may be provided with an opening to receive the mounting end 163 of the lifting
eye. The collar may be a part of the lifting eye 22 or may be a part of the product 15. In alternative
embodiments, the collar may be omitted and the lifting eye 22 may directly engage other features
of the product 15 to secure the lifting eye 22 to the product 15.
[104]    Mounting end 163 is preferably shaped to generally match the shape of hole 133 or the
opening within collar. This minimizes the amount of fines that may be introduced into hole 133
or opening when the product 15 engages the ground to be excavated.            It should be appreciated
that hole 133 and/or opening may have a variety of shapes and mounting end 163 may have a
variety of shapes to generally correspond to the shapes of the hole 133 or opening. In alternative
embodiments, the lifting eye 22 may have a shape that is varied from the shape of the hole or
opening in which it is received.
[105]    Inserting sensors 35 into a recess 171 of the lifting eye permits the device 25 to function as
a tool for maneuvering the product in addition to its monitoring functions. Nevertheless, sensors
35 could be inserted into other recesses, holes, or openings having other specific purposes or
provided for the sole purpose of receiving monitoring device 25 in the ground engaging product.
[106]    The mounting end 163 preferably has one or more retainers 169 to hold the lifting eye 22
within the hole 133 or 166. In the embodiment illustrated in Figures 28-29, the retainers 169 are
shown as helical ridges 175 in the form of threads.           As described in US Patent Publication
2015/0013134, the threads generally extend around the sides of the outer edges of the mounting
end 163. The lifting eye 22 is preferably secured within the hole 133 or opening with the threads
175. Other securement mechanisms and retainers are possible and the helical ridges are only one
example of a retainer that may be used to secure the lifting eye 22 within the hole 133 or opening
166. Other ways of securing the lifting eye 22 within the hole 133 or opening 166 are possible.
For example, one or more latches could be used to secure the lifting eye in place.

                                                   25
[107]    In the illustrated embodiment, the lifting eye is further provided with a retainer 169 in the
form of a latching detent 177. The latching detent 177, preferably, enables lifting eye 22 to stop
at a fixed position with a predetermined orientation relative to collar or hole 133. Further, the
latching detent 177 maintains the lifting eye 22 in a preferred orientation so that if the ground
engaging product spins while secured to the lifting device the latching detent 177 of lifting eye 22
ensures that the ground engaging product does not rotate relative to the lifting eye or otherwise
become separated from the lifting eye 22 (i.e., the latching detent 177 prevents the lifting eye 22
from rotating further into or out of the collar as the ground engaging product is lifted with the
lifting device). Latching detent 177, preferably, keeps lifting eye 22 outside of hole 133 or opening
with sufficient clearance, so that the ground engaging product can be removed (and installed).
Other kinds of latching formations could be used that latch in other ways such as to engage the
inner wall of the product cavity or the lifting eye may not be provided with a latching formation.
[108]    Mounting end 163 preferably has a recess 171 for receiving monitoring device 25.
Recess 171 preferably extends from an exterior surface 179 of the mounting end 163 that is
adjacent the working end 161 to a depth short of an opposing exterior surface 181. In alternative
embodiments not shown, the recess may, for example, extend from an exterior surface in the
mounting end that is opposite the working end to a depth short of an exterior surface adjacent the
working end or the recess may extend through the entire mounting end of the lifting eye. The
recess 171 may have a width that is the same through its length or may have a width that is varied
as it extends into the mounting end 163 of the lifting eye 22.
[109]    One or more devices 25 may be secured within recess 171 of lifting eye 22. There are
multiple ways to secure the devices 25 within recess 171. For example, the devices 25 may be
mechanically secured within recess 171 or an adhesive may be used to secure the device within
the recess 171. In alternative embodiments, the devices 25 may be secured to, or embedded in, a
polymer that is secured within the recess 171.
[110]    In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 29, an antenna 183 extends from the device 35 to an
exterior surface 179 of the mounting end 163 that is adjacent the working end 161 of the lifting
eye 22. In alternative embodiments, the antenna may extend to a point shy of the exterior surface
179.    With this arrangement there is minimal signal blockage from the metal of the ground
engaging product. The antenna 183 is preferably wearable to function as a wear monitoring device.
As the ground engaging product engages the ground the lifting eye 22 wears and the antenna 183
wears to provide an indication of the wear that the ground engaging product has experienced. In

                                                 26
an alternative embodiment illustrated in Fig. 28, the electrical devices 35 are in the form of a
wearable resistor ladder 52A. As the resistor ladder 52A wears, the resistance changes providing
an indication of the degree of wear that the ground engaging product has experienced.             In
alternative embodiments, the devices may be free of an antenna or may have an antenna that does
not extend generally in the direction of the exterior surface.
[111]    Recess 171 may be filled in with a polymer once the monitoring device(s) 25 has been
secured within the recess 171. In one embodiment, the polymer is selected from a group consisting
of elastomers, thermoplastics, and thermosets. In alternative embodiments, the recess 171 may be
filled in with a material other than polymers or may not be filled in. Securing the devices 25 to a
polymer and/or filling the recess 171 with a polymer may further protect the devices 35 from fines
as the ground engaging product engages the material to be excavated.
[112]    In the illustrated embodiments, the working end 161 is shown as being a load bearing ring.
Other types of working ends are possible. For example, the ring could be replaced with other
rigging engaging elements such as a plate with a hole, a c-shaped loop with a spring loaded gate,
a threaded socket, or an adapter that can be gripped by or otherwise secured to the lifting device.
In this application, lifting devices with any of these arrangements are referred to as a lifting eye
even if the working end does not include a traditional "eye."
[113]    The hole for receiving lifting eye 22 may be pre-established for other reasons and not be
specifically designed for receiving the lifting eye 22. For example, the hole may be a hole 133
that is normally used for receiving a lock 21 to secure the product to the base (Fig. 30). In other
embodiments, the hole 133 may be specifically designed for receiving the lifting eye 22 (Fig. 30).
In some embodiments, the hole specifically designed for receiving the monitoring device 25 may
be located in a point, an intermediate adapter, an adapter, a nose of a cast lip, a shroud, a lip, a
blade, a wear runner, a truck liner, or other products of other kinds of earth working equipment.
In addition, the holes 133 are preferably placed in a location that is known to experience wear so
that the lifting eye 22 experiences wear and the electronic device 35 may detect the wear of the
product 15 and/or the lifting eye 22. .
[114]    Monitoring device 25 may comprise more than one lifting eye 22, i.e., multiple lifting eyes
22 and multiple devices 25 may be used together to monitor multiple ground engaging products.
For example, a bucket 3 may have multiple ground-engaging products 7 and at least one lifting
eye 22 with at least one device 25 installed in each product 7 so that the programmable logic
receives the information from the multiple devises 25 and process the data from each device 25 to

                                                  27
identify and determine the condition and health of each product 7. Alternatively, multiple devices
25 may be secured to a single product. As one example, a device 25 could be secured to the
product and another device 25 secured to the base (Fig.5). As another example, a plurality of
devices 25 could be secured to the ground engaging product.
[115]     For all the embodiments, the monitoring device 25 and/or remote device 38 can use
programmable logic to process information generated from, e.g., devices 25 and/or the remote
devices 38 for identifying characteristics such as the part ID, presence, condition, usage and/or
performance of the ground engaging product being monitored and/or providing alerts to the
operator. Processors (e.g., microprocessors), using programmable logic may be part of monitoring
device 25 and/or a remote device 38. The programmable logic included in a remote device may,
for example, use information received from monitoring device 25 to identify that the product 15
is still secured to the base 13. When the product has unexpectedly been separated from the base
13, the monitoring device 25 may send a different signal indicating a change in the condition of
the product 15. In another example, the processor may use information about the geology of the
mine site in combination with the wear information from monitoring device 25 to determine, e.g.,
the estimated wear life remaining for the product. In another example, the programmable logic
may use the number of digging cycles or the duration that a ground engaging product has been in
service to determine the estimated wear life remaining.         The programmable logic may be
programed to produce a precautionary alert that a specific product is close to needing replacement.
The alert may be, for example, a visual alert, haptic feedback, and/or an audio alert. The devices
25 and/or 38 may wirelessly provide the alerts to equipment operators and/or wireless devises for
access by the operator or others such as maintenance personnel, mine site managers or the like. In
addition, the programmable logic may be programed to produce an alert if the condition indicates,
e.g., that the ground engaging product has been unexpectedly separated from the base, broken, or
is at or near a fully worn condition.
[116]     The monitoring device 25 and/or remote device 38 may be, for example, passive or active
and may include a receiver, transmitter, and/or a digital sensor. The receiver and/or transmitter
may be, for example, a radio communication device, an electromagnetic wave receiver and/or
transmitter, a mechanical wave receiver and/or transmitter, a laser receiver and/or transmitter, or
Global Positioning System (GPS).        The electromagnetic waves preferably have a wavelength
outside of the visible spectrum (e.g., infrared, microwave, or Radio Frequency [RF]), but may be
in the ultrasonic spectrum. Further, the devices 25, device 35 may include a temperature sensor,
a camera, a digital inclinometer unit, a digital compass, an RFID, an accelerometer, a timer, a

                                                 28
proximity sensor, a force sensor, a position sensor, and/or other sensors that provides information
regarding the operating conditions in which the ground engaging product is being used.
[117]   The results and alerts from the process may be sent to at least one Human Machine Interface
(HMI). The HMI could, e.g., be a handheld device 39 as shown in Figure 11, mounted in a cab of
a vehicle such as a digging machine or haul truck, or in an office location. The features, events,
data or the like detected by the monitoring device can be processed with other collected or stored
data by programmable logic to determine a wide variety of factors that may influence the mine
operator. As an example, the system may determine the anticipated fully worn condition using
data on past usage of the equipment, real-time monitoring of the equipment, outside factors such
as the hardness or abrasiveness of the earthen material being worked, the material composition of
the ground engaging product being monitored, etc. The data may also, as an example, be
coordinated with other scheduled maintenance to determine the most efficient time to replace or
maintain the product being monitored. In turn, the HMI can on the basis of the detected features
and/or processed information provide alerts, data, expected wear lives, and the like for more
efficient use of the earth working equipment.
[118]   The monitoring device 25 may also communicate with other computer systems, wirelessly
or through a cable, the specific ground engaging product(s) needing maintenance either because
the ground engaging product is separated or because there is an indication that the ground engaging
product may need maintenance. In addition the monitoring device may store all of the results from
the process. The HMI may be hard wired to a remote device or may be a wireless device, may be
integrated with a display system currently in the excavating equipment (e.g., with the OEM
display), integrated with a new display system within the excavating equipment, and/or may be
located in a remote location. The HMI may be configured to provide a graphical display of the
current condition of the ground engaging product. The HMI may, for example, provide visual
alerts (e.g., text and/or pictorial images), haptic feedback (e.g., vibrations), and audio alerts
regarding the condition of each ground engaging product. The visual alert may be, for example, a
graphical picture displaying each ground engaging product and the condition of each ground
engaging product (i.e., absent/present, acceptable wear, needing maintenance). The HMI may be
designed to display a live image of the ground engaging product so that an operator can visually
check that an alert is valid. The HMI may be designed to display a history chart so that an operator
can determine when an alert happened so that an operator can take the necessary actions if a ground
engaging product is unexpectedly separated. The HMI may include a display 41. The display 41
may include various visual indicators including but not limited to: photographs of, for example,

                                                   29
similar ground engaging products from a database; photographs taken with camera at the worksite,
such as with camera 190 on boom 2 (Fig. 12); remaining wear life; bucket configuration; etc.
[119]     In use, monitoring device 25 may be installed in recess 50 as a part of the manufacturing
process or in the field. When the monitoring device 25 is installed in recess 50 at the time of
manufacture, it may also be used to track shipping progress, inventory levels of the products 15,
and/or when products are removed from inventory for use. In addition, the monitoring device 25
may be able to detect if the product 15 experienced a condition that has the potential to damage
the ground engaging product during shipping.          Alternatively, monitoring device 25 may be
installed after the manufacturing process and may, for example, be installed in lock 21 (as
discussed below) while in inventory or at the time of installation of the a new ground engaging
product on the earth working equipment.
[120]     In another example, a monitoring device 25 can provide data for a real-time assessment of
characteristics of an operation. For example, the tool can monitor the load gathered in a bucket
and in the truck tray being filled to provide information to the operator on more efficiently filling
the truck tray. As an example, the system may indicate the awaiting haul truck will be completely
filled with the bucket being only partially (e.g., half) filled. In this way, the system can increase
the efficiency and production of the operation. Real-time assessments can be used in other ways
such as to optimize the digging path, schedule maintenance, estimate production, etc.
[121]     In another example, a monitoring device 25 can be used to generate data usable to map a
mine site or other earth working site to estimate characteristics of the ground-engaging products
on earth working equipment used at the site. For example, the gathered data could be used to
generate contour-style mapping of wear rates for ground-engaging products to better determine
such things as product replacement schedules, costs, etc. In one example, the data gathered by
device 25 could be combined with other data such as mine geology, GPS data, fragmentation, etc.
The data could be used to map other characteristics or process the site data in ways other than
mapping to generate similar information.
[122]     In one embodiment, with any of the monitoring devices, each ground-engaging product 15
on lip 5 includes a monitoring device 25. The monitoring devices 25 detect each other in
established positions for the equipment on which they are secured. Alternatively (or in addition
to), all the monitoring devices are detected by a remote device 38 (or a plurality of remote devices).
Loss of a product (e.g., through breakage or pin ejection) results in loss of the monitoring device
from the established electronic framework; i.e., a significant change in position of the monitoring

                                                  30
device is detected when one monitoring device deviates beyond a certain range of its established
position with the other monitoring devices. The range of expected motion caused, e.g., by digging
is determined by considering such things as the type of ground engaging product, wear, the
operation of the machine, etc. Alternatively, the remote device 38 detects the positions of the
monitoring devices 25 to ensure the presence of each product in its established position relative to
the other monitoring devices 25. In either case, by detecting the presence of the product through
its relative position and orientation with the other products, the system operates irrespective of the
movement and operation of the earth working equipment with the ground engaging products.
[123]    In one embodiment, a camera could be attached to, e.g., the bucket, boom, stick, machine,
drone, service truck, or other support to provide a visual double check for the operator. For
example, a camera 190 can be secured to the boom 2 to capture (at least part of the time) a visual
image of the ground engaging products attached to the bucket 3. When the machine operator (or
another) receives an alert that, e.g., a ground engaging product has separated, a display showing
the visual image within the cab can be checked to ensure the noted ground engaging product is
actually missing from the bucket. This backup system can reduce false alarms that cause the
operator to stop operation of the machine.
[124]    In another embodiment, systems involving cameras such as used in prior art systems or as
disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Applications 62/116,216, and 62/151,124, and the US Patent
Application 15/043,433 (attorney docket number 507-US) claiming priority on these two
applications and filed concurrently with this application on February 12, 2016, which is
incorporated by reference in its entirety, can be used in combination with the monitoring systems
described in this application. The information received from the camera-based systems can be used
as a backup double check to reduce the number of false alarms. Alternatively, the monitoring
devices disclosed herein could be a backup double check for the camera-based monitoring systems.
Further, the data collected by both a camera-based monitoring system and a non-camera based
monitoring system (such as disclosed herein) could be collectively processed to determine, e.g.,
the part ID, presence, usage, condition and/or performance of the ground engaging product. The
full data received by both systems could lead to more reliable conclusions and assessments.
[125]    The above disclosure describes specific examples products and systems for identifying
characteristics such as the part ID, condition, usage, presence and/or performance of a ground
engaging product used on earth working equipment. The features in one embodiment can be used

                                                  31
with features of another embodiment. The examples given and the combination of features
disclosed are not intended to be limiting in the sense that they must be used together.
[126]    In this specification where a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed,
this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document, act or item of knowledge or any
combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available, known to the public, part of the
common general knowledge or known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with
which this specification is concerned.
[127]    The word 'comprising' and forms of the word 'comprising' as used in this description and
in the claims does not limit the invention claimed to exclude any variants or additions.

                                                    32
CLAIMS:
1.    A monitoring system comprising:
       a ground-engaging product including a monitoring device to wirelessly transmit identity
information pertaining to a unique identity of the ground-engaging product, and to monitor and
wirelessly transmit data pertaining to a characteristic of the ground-engaging product when
secured to earth working equipment;
       at least one remote device to receive the identity information during shipping of the ground
engaging product between a source of manufacture and a worksite, and to receive the data during
operation of the earth working equipment; and
       at least one programmable logic device to process the identity information during shipping
of the ground-engaging product to track the shipping progress of the ground-engaging product,
and to process the data to provide information on the characteristic of the ground-engaging
product.
2.     The monitoring system of claim 1 wherein the monitoring device includes an electronic
device to include the identity information and to monitor the at least one characteristic, and a
communication device to wirelessly transmit the identity information and the data, and wherein
the ground-engaging product includes a mounting cavity defined by an interior surface for
receiving a base secured to the earth working equipment such that the interior surface opposes the
base, and wherein the communication device is closer to the exterior surface than at least a portion
of the interior surface is to the exterior surface.
3.     The monitoring system of claim 1 or 2 wherein the ground-engaging product is a ground
engaging product configured for attachment to a digging edge of a bucket.
4.     The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on whether the ground-engaging product remains secured to the
digging edge during operation of the earth working equipment.
5.     The monitoring system of claim 4 including a human display interface to provide real-time
information on whether the ground-engaging product remains secured to the digging edge.
6.     The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the amount the ground-engaging product has worn while
attached to the earth working equipment.

                                                 33
7.     The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides an estimate of the useful life remaining for the ground-engaging product
while attached to the earth working equipment.
8.     The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the condition of the ground-engaging product.
9.     The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the usage of the ground-engaging product by the earth
working equipment.
10.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the performance of the ground-engaging product during use
of the earth working equipment.
11.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the occurrences of impact on the ground-engaging product
that exceed an established target during use of the earth working equipment.
12.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device provides information on the number of impacts on the ground-engaging product
during shipping that exceed an established target.
13.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the at least one programmable
logic device identifies whether the ground-engaging product is included in an inventory of parts.
14.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the ground-engaging product
is a component of an excavating tooth.
15.    The monitoring system of any of the preceding claims wherein the ground-engaging product
includes an opening and a lock received in the opening to secure the ground-engaging product to
the earth working equipment, and wherein the monitoring device is secured to the lock.
16.    The monitoring system of claim 15 wherein the lock includes a collar secured in the opening,
and a pin threaded in the collar to secure the ground-engaging product to the earth working
equipment, and wherein the pin includes a recess to hold the monitoring device.
17.    The monitoring system of any of claims 1-14 wherein the ground-engaging product includes
an opening and a lifting eye secured in the opening, and wherein the monitoring device is secured
to the lifting eye.

                                                34
18.   The monitoring system of any of claims 1-14 wherein the ground-engaging product includes
an opening and a plug received in the opening, and wherein the monitoring device is secured to
the plug.
19.   The monitoring system of any of claims 1-13 wherein the ground-engaging product is a pick
configured for attachment to a holder secured to a drum of the earth working equipment.
20.   The monitoring system of any of claims 1-13 wherein the ground-engaging product is a lip
of an excavating bucket.
21.   The monitoring system of any of claims 1-13 wherein the ground-engaging product is a blade
configured for attachment to a moldboard of the earth working equipment.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
