    ANTIGEN-BINDING MOLECULE CAPABLE OF BINDING TO TWO OR MORE
                             ANTIGEN MOLECULES REPEATEDLY
                                             ABSTRACT
          It is found that a molecule of an antibody which exhibits a weaker antigen-binding
activity at a pH value in an early endosome compared with that at a pH value in a plasma can
bind to two or more antigen molecules, and it is also found that the antibody has a long half-life in
a plasma and is improved in the period during which the antibody can bind to an antigen.

                                                       1
                                               DESCRIPTION
          ANTIGEN-BINDING MOLECULE CAPABLE OF BINDING TO TWO OR MORE
                                 ANTIGEN MOLECULES REPEATEDLY
 5
   Technical Field
              The present invention relates to methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of
   antigen-binding molecules and methods for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding of
   antigen-binding molecules, as well as antigen-binding molecules having improved
 0 pharmacokinetics, antigen-binding molecules having increased number of times of
   antigen-binding, and methods for producing such molecules.
   Background Art
              Antibodies are drawing attention as pharmaceuticals as they are highly stable in plasma
 5 and have few adverse effects.      At present, a number of IgG-type antibody pharmaceuticals are
   available on the market and many more antibody pharmaceuticals are currently under
   development (Non-Patent Documents 1 and 2).           Meanwhile, various technologies applicable to
   second-generation antibody pharmaceuticals have been developed, including those that enhance
   effector function, antigen-binding ability, pharmacokinetics, and stability, and those that reduce
 0 the risk of immunogenicity (Non-Patent Document 3).          In general, the requisite dose of an
   antibody pharmaceutical is very high.      This, in turn, has led to problems, such as high
   production cost, as well as the difficulty in producing subcutaneous formulations.       In theory, the
   dose of an antibody pharmaceutical may be reduced by improving antibody pharmacokinetics or
   improving the affinity between antibodies and antigens.
25            The literature has reported methods for improving antibody pharmacokinetics using
   artificial substitution of amino acids in constant regions (Non-Patent Documents 4 and 5).
   Similarly, affinity maturation has been reported as a technology for enhancing antigen-binding
   ability or antigen-neutralizing activity (Non-Patent Document 6).        This technology enables
   enhancement of antigen-binding activity by introduction of amino acid mutations into the CDR
30 region of a variable region or such.     The enhancement of antigen-binding ability enables
   improvement of in vitro biological activity or reduction of dosage, and further enables
   improvement of in vivo efficacy (Non-Patent Document 7).
              The antigen-neutralizing capacity of a single antibody molecule depends on its affinity.
   By increasing the affinity, an antigen can be neutralized by smaller amount of an antibody.
35 Various methods can be used to enhance the antibody affinity.         Furthermore, if the affinity
   could be made infinite by covalently binding the antibody to the antigen, a single antibody

                                                      2
   molecule could neutralize one antigen molecule (a divalent antibody can neutralize two antigen
   molecules).    However, the stoichiometric neutralization of one antibody against one antigen
   (one divalent antibody against two antigens) is the limit of pre-existing methods, and thus it is
   impossible to completely neutralize antigen with the smaller amount of antibody than the amount
 5 of antigen.   In other words, the affinity enhancing effect has a limit (Non-Patent Document 9).
   To prolong the neutralization effect of a neutralizing antibody for a certain period, the antibody
   must be administered at a dose higher than the amount of antigen produced in the body during
   the same period.     With the improvement of antibody pharmacokinetics or affinity maturation
   technology alone described above, there is thus a limitation in the reduction of the required
 0 antibody dose.
             Accordingly, in order to sustain antibody's antigen-neutralizing effect for a target period
   with smaller amount of the antibody than the amount of antigen, a single antibody must
   neutralize multiple antigens.   Methods for neutralizing multiple antigens with a single antibody
   include antigen inactivation using catalytic antibodies, which are antibodies conferred with a
 5 catalytic function.   When the antigen is a protein, it can be inactivated by hydrolyzing its
   peptide bonds.     An antibody can repeatedly neutralize antigens by catalyzing such hydrolysis
   (Non-Patent Document 8).       There are many previous reports published on catalytic antibodies
   and technologies for producing them.      However, there have been no reports of catalytic
   antibodies having sufficient catalytic activity as a pharmaceutical agent.   Specifically, in an
 0 antibody in vivo study for a certain antigen, there has been no publication of catalytic antibodies
   which can produce a comparable or stronger effect even at low doses or produce a more
   prolonged effect even at a same dose as compared to an ordinary non-catalytic neutralizing
   antibody.
             As described above, there have been no reports of antibodies that can produce a more
25 superior in vivo effect than ordinary neutralizing antibodies through a single antibody
   neutralizing multiple antigen molecules.     Thus, from the viewpoint of dose reduction and
   prolongation of the durability, there is a need for new technologies that permit the production of
   novel antibody molecules having a stronger in vivo effect than ordinary neutralizing antibodies
   by individually neutralizing multiple antigen molecules.
30           Prior art documents related to the present invention are shown below:
   [Prior art documents]
   [Non-Patent Documents]
   Non-Patent Document 1: Monoclonal antibody successes in the clinic. Janice M Reichert, Clark
   J Rosensweig, Laura B Faden & Matthew C Dewitz, Nature Biotechnology 23, 1073-1078
35 (2005)

                                                    3
   Non-Patent Document 2: Pavlou AK, Belsey MJ. The therapeutic antibodies market to 2008. Eur
   J Pharm Biopharm. 2005 Apr;59(3):389-96
   Non-Patent Document 3: Kim SJ, Park Y, Hong HJ. Antibody engineering for the development
   of therapeutic antibodies. Mol Cells. 2005 Aug 31;20(1):17-29. Review
 5 Non-Patent Document 4: Hinton PR, Xiong JM, Johlfs MG, Tang MT, Keller S, Tsurushita N.
   An engineered human IgGI antibody with longer serum half-life. J Immunol. 2006 Jan
   1;176(1):346-56
   Non-Patent Document 5: Ghetie V, Popov S, Borvak J, Radu C, Matesoi D, Medesan C, Ober RJ,
   Ward ES. Increasing the serum persistence of an IgG fragment by random mutagenesis. Nat
 0 Biotechnol. 1997 Jul;15(7):637-40
   Non-Patent Document 6: Rajpal A, Beyaz N, Haber L, Cappuccilli G, Yee H, Bhatt RR,
   Takeuchi T, Lerner RA, Crea R. A general method for greatly improving the affinity of
   antibodies by using combinatorial libraries. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Jun
   14;102(24):8466-71. Epub 2005 Jun 6
 5 Non-Patent Document 7: Wu H, Pfarr DS, Johnson S, Brewah YA, Woods RM, Patel NK, White
   WI, Young JF, Kiener PA. Development of Motavizumab, an Ultra-potent Antibody for the
   Prevention of Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection in the Upper and Lower Respiratory Tract. J
   Mol Biol. 2007, 368, 652-665
   Non-Patent Document 8: Hanson CV, Nishiyama Y, Paul S. Catalytic antibodies and their
 0 applications. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2005 Dec;16(6):631-6
   Non-Patent Document 9: Rathanaswami P, Roalstad S, Roskos L, Su QJ, Lackie S, Babcook J.
   Demonstration of an in vivo generated sub-picomolar affinity fully human monoclonal antibody
   to interleukin-8. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2005 Sep 9;334(4):1004-13
25 Summary of the Invention
             The above noted circumstances led to the discoveries of the present invention.
   Accordingly, an objective of the present invention is to provide methods for binding
   antigen-binding molecules to the antigens multiple times and methods for improving the
30 pharmacokinetics of antigen-binding molecules, as well as antigen-binding molecules that are
   capable of binding to the antigens multiple times, antigen-binding molecules having improved
   pharmacokinetics, pharmaceutical compositions containing such antigen-binding molecules, and
   methods for producing such molecules and compositions.
35           Dedicated studies on methods for binding polypeptides having antigen-binding ability,
   such as antigen-binding molecules, to the antigens multiple times, and methods for improving

                                                      4
   the half-lives of such molecules in plasma (blood) (improving their pharmacokinetics) were
   conducted herein.     As a result, it was discovered that if the antigen-binding activity of an
   antigen-binding molecule at the early endosomal pH is lower than its antigen-binding activiy at
   the pH of plasma (blood), it would be able to bind to antigens multiple times and have a longer
 5 half-life in plasma.
             Accordingly, the present invention relates to methods for binding antigen-binding
   molecules to antigens multiple times, methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of
   antigen-binding molecules, and methods for producing antigen-binding molecules with improved
   pharmacokinetics; the present invention also relates to antigen-binding molecules that are
 0 capable of binding to antigens multiple times and antigen-binding molecules with improved
   pharmacokinetics.     Herein disclosed are the following:
   [1] an antigen-binding molecule having a KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value, defined as the ratio of
   KD for the antigen at pH 5.8 and KD for the antigen at pH 7.4, of 2 or higher;
   [2] the antigen-binding molecule of [1], wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is 10 or
 5 higher;
   [3] the antigen-binding molecule of [1], wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is 40 or
   higher;
   [4] the antigen-binding molecule of any one of [1] to [3], wherein at least one amino acid of the
   antigen-binding molecule has been substituted with histidine, or at least one histidine has been
 0 inserted into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [5] the antigen-binding molecule of any one of [1] to [4], wherein the antigen-binding molecule
   has an antagonistic activity;
   [6]. the antigen-binding molecule of any one of [1] to [5], wherein the antigen-binding molecule
   binds to a membrane antigen or a soluble antigen;
25 [7] the antigen-binding molecule of any one of [1] to [6], wherein the antigen-binding molecule
   is an antibody;
   [8] a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antigen-binding molecule of any one of [1] to
   [7];
   [9] a method for improving the pharmacokinetics of an antigen-binding molecule by impairing
30 the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH
   7.4;
   [10] a method for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding for an antigen-binding
   molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as
   compared to that at pH 7.4;

                                                       5
   [11] a method for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as
   compared to that at pH 7.4;
   [12] a method for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound
 5 antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding
   molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4;
   [13] a method for releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen
   and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell by impairing the
   antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4;
 0 [14] a method for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate an antigen in
   plasma by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as
   compared to that at pH 7.4;
   [15] the method of any one of [9] to [14], wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value, defined as
   the ratio of KD for the antigen at pH 5.8 and KD for the antigen at pH 7.4, is 2 or higher;
 5 [16] the method of any one of [9] to [14], wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is 10 or
   higher;
   [17] the method of any one of [9] to [14], wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is 40 or
   higher;
   [18] a method for improving the pharmacokinetics of an antigen-binding molecule by
 0 substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or inserting at
   least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [19] a method for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding for an antigen-binding
   molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine,
   or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
25 [20] a method for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine,
   or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [21] a method for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound
   antigen-binding molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule
30 with histidine, or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [22] a method for releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen
   and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, by substituting at
   least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or inserting at least one
   histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;

                                                      6
   [23] a method for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate an antigen in
   plasma by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or
   inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [24] the method of any one of [18] to [23], wherein the histidine substitution or insertion
 5 increases the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value, defined as the ratio of the antigen-binding activity at
   pH 5.8 and the antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4, as compared to the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4)
   value before the histidine substitution or insertion;
   [25] the method of any one of [9] to [24], wherein the antigen-binding molecule has an
   antagonistic activity;
 0 [26] the method of any one of [9] to [25], wherein the antigen-binding molecule binds to a
   membrane antigen or a soluble antigen;
   [27] the method of any one of [9] to [26], wherein the antigen-binding molecule is an antibody;
   [28] a method of screening for an antigen-binding molecule, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) determining the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH
 5 10.0;
   (b) determining the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   and
   (c) selecting an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   greater than the antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
 0 [29] the screening method of [28], which comprises the step of selecting an antibody whose
   antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is twice or higher that of the antigen-binding
   activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   [30] a method of screening for an antigen-binding molecule, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen under a condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0;
25 (b) placing the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen of (a) under a condition of pH
   4.0 to pH 6.5; and
   (c) obtaining an antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5;
   [31] a method of screening for an antigen-binding molecule whose binding activity at a first pH
30 is greater than that at a second pH, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen-immobilized column under the condition
   of a first pH;
   (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule that had bound to the column at the first pH from the
   column under the condition of a second pH; and
35 (c) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;

                                                     7
   [32] a method of screening for an antigen-binding molecule whose binding activity at a first pH
   is greater than that at a second pH, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule library to an antigen-immobilized column under the
   condition of a first pH;
 5 (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule from the column under the condition of a second pH;
   (c) amplifying the gene encoding the eluted antigen-binding molecule; and
   (d) obtaining the eluted antigen-binding molecule.
   [33] the screening method of [31] or [32], wherein the first pH is 6.7 to 10.0 and the second pH
   is 4.0 to 6.5;
 0 [34] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], wherein at least one or more amino acids of
   the antigen-binding molecule has been substituted with histidine, or at least one histidine has
   been inserted into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [35] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that is superior in retention in the plasma;
 5 [36] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that is capable of binding to an antigen two or more times;
   [37] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that is capable of binding to more antigens as compared to the number of its antigen-binding
   sites;
 0 [38] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that dissociates an extracellularly-bound antigen within a cell.
   [39] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that is bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, and released to the outside of the cell in
   an antigen-free form;
25 [40] the screening method of any one of [28] to [33], for obtaining an antigen-binding molecule
   that has increased ability to eliminate an antigen in plasma;
   [41] the screening method of any one of [28] to [40], wherein the antigen-binding molecule is
   used as a pharmaceutical composition;
   [42] the screening method of any one of [28] to [41], wherein the antigen-binding molecule is an
30 antibody;
   [43] a method for producing an antigen-binding molecule, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) determining the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH
   10.0;
   (b) determining the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
35 (c) selecting the antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;

                                                     8
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule selected in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d);
   [44] a method for producing an antigen-binding molecule, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen under a condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0;
 5 (b) allowing the antigen-binding molecule bound to the antigen of (a) to stand under a condition
   of pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (c) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule obtained in (c); and
 0 (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d);
   [45] a method for producing an antigen-binding molecule whose binding activity at a first pH is
   greater than that at a second pH, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen-immobilized column under the first pH
   condition;
 5 (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule, which is bound to the column at the first pH, from the
   column under a second pH condition;
   (c) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule obtained in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d);
 0 [46] a method for producing an antigen-binding molecule whose binding activity at a first pH is
   greater than that at a second pH, which comprises the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule library to an antigen-immobilized column under the first
   pH condition;
   (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule from the column under the second pH condition;
25 (c) amplifying the gene encoding the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (d) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (e) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (d); and
   (f) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (e);
   [47] the production method of [45] or [46], wherein the first pH is 6.7 to 10.0 and the second pH
30 is 4.0 to 6.5.
   [48] the production method of any one of [43] to [47], which further comprises the step of
   substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or inserting at
   least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule;
   [49] the production method of any one of [43] to [48], wherein the antigen-binding molecule is
35 an antibody;

                                                    9
   [50] a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antigen-binding molecule produced by the
   production method of any one of [43] to [49].
            The present invention provides methods for making single antigen-binding molecules to
 5 repeatedly bind to multiple antigen molecules.    When an antigen-binding molecule binds to
   multiple antigen molecules, the pharmacokinetics of the antigen-binding molecule can be
   improved and such molecule can exert more superior in vivo effects than those of ordinary
   antigen-binding molecules.
 0 Brief Description of the Drawings
            FIG. 1 is a diagram depicting a degradation pathway of antibodies bound to
   membrane-bound antigen.
            FIG. 2 is a diagram depicting a mechanism by which IgG molecules are salvaged by
   FcRn.
 5          FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram depicting the re-binding of IgG molecules to new antigen
   following dissociation from membrane-bound antigen within endosomes.
            FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram depicting the re-binding of IgG molecules to new antigen
   following dissociation from soluble antigen within endosomes.
            FIG. 5 is a diagram depicting the process of panning using an antigen-immobilized
 0 column.
            FIG. 6 presents graphs depicting the results of phage ELISA for clones acquired by
   column panning.     The upper graph depicts WT and the lower graph depicts CL5.
            FIG. 7 is a graph depicting the biological neutralization activity of
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies.
25          FIG. 8 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram for binding of
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to soluble IL-6 receptor at pH 7.4.   The
   top graph depicts WT; the second graph from the top depicts H3pI/L73; the third graph from the
   top depicts H170/L82; and the bottom depicts CLH5/L73.
            FIG. 9 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram for binding of
30 pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to soluble IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8.   The
   top graph depicts WT; the second graph from the top depicts H3pI/L73; the third graph from the
   top depicts H170/L82; and the bottom graph depicts CLH5/L73.
            FIG. 10 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram for association (pH 7.4)
   and dissociation (pH 5.8) of pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to
35 membrane-type IL-6 receptor.      The top graph depicts WT; the second graph from the top

                                                    10
   depicts H3pI/L73; the third graph from the top depicts H170/L82; and the bottom graph depicts
   CLH5/L73.
            FIG. 11 is a Biacore sensorgram indicating repeated binding of pH-dependently-binding
   anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to SR344.
 5          FIG. 12 is a graph depicting the total amount of bound antigen in a repetitive binding
   experiment of pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to SR344.
            FIG. 13 is a graph depicting time courses of antibody plasma concentrations of
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies in human IL-6 receptor transgenic mice.
            FIG. 14 is a graph depicting time courses of antibody plasma concentrations of
 0 pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies in cynomolgus monkeys.
            FIG. 15 is a graph depicting time courses of CRP concentrations in cynomolgus
   monkeys, in relation to pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies.
            FIG. 16 is a graph depicting time courses of unbound-type cynomolgus monkey IL-6
   receptor concentrations in cynomolgus monkeys, in relation to pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6
 5 receptor antibodies.
            FIG. 17 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram of association (pH 7.4)
   and dissociation (pH 5.8) of pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor.     In order moving from the top, the results for WT,
   H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 are shown.
 0          FIG. 18 is a graph depicting time courses of plasma antibody concentrations of
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies (WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1, and
   Fv4-IgG1) in human IL-6 receptor transgenic mice.
            FIG. 19 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram for association (pH 7.4)
   and dissociation (pH 5.8) of pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to
25 membrane-type IL-6 receptor.     Moving from the top down, the results for WT, Fv4-IgG 1,
   Fv4-IgG2, and Fv4-M58 are shown.
            FIG. 20 is a graph showing time courses of antibody plasma concentrations of
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies (WT, Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, and Fv4-M58)
   in human IL-6 receptor transgenic mice..
30          FIG. 21 presents graphs depicting results of Biacore sensorgram of association (pH 7.4)
   and dissociation (pH 5.8) of pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies to
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor.     Moving from the top down, the results for Fvl-M71, Fv-M73,
   Fv3-M71, and Fv3-M73 are shown.
            FIG. 22 is a graph depicting time courses of antibody plasma concentrations of
35 pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies in cynomolgus monkeys, during

                                                      11
   administration of H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv-M71, Fv-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M73, and Fv4-M73 at
   0.5 mg/kg and during administration of high affinity Ab at 1.0 mg/kg.
            FIG. 23 is a graph depicting time courses of CRP concentrations in cynomolgus
   monkeys, in relation to pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies (H3pI/L73-IgG1-,
 5 Fvl-M71-, Fvl-M73-, Fv2-IgG1-, Fv3-M73-, Fv4-M73-, and high-affinity-Ab-administered
   groups).
            FIG. 24 is a graph depicting time courses of unbound-type cynomolgus monkey IL-6
   receptor concentrations in cynomolgus monkeys, in relation to pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6
   receptor antibodies (H3pI/L73-IgG1-, Fvl-M71-, Fvl-M73-, Fv2-IgG1-, Fv3-M73-, Fv4-M73-,
 0 and high-affinity-Ab-administered groups).
            FIG. 25 is a diagram depicting FRI, FR2, FR3, and FR4 along with CDR1, CDR2, and
   CDR3 of heavy chains (VH1, VH2, VH3, VH4) and light chains (VL1, VL2, VL3).               Asterisks
   indicate locations where amino acid mutations exist in the aligned sequences.
            FIG. 26 presents a Biacore sensorgram depicting the pH-dependent binding of an
 5 anti-IL-6 antibody, Anti-IL6 clone 2, to IL-6 at pH 7.4 and pH 5.5.      The curves in the
   sensorgram at pH 7.4 correspond to 100, 50, 25, 12.5, and 6.25 ng/mL IL-6, from above.
            FIG. 27 presents a Biacore sensorgram depicting the pH-dependent binding of an
   anti-IL-31 receptor antibody, Anti-IL31R clone 1, to the IL-31 receptor at pH 7.4 and pH 5.5.
   The curves in the sensorgram at pH 5.5 correspond to 100, 50, 25, and 12.5 ng/mL IL-31
 0 receptor, from above.
            FIG. 28 depicts the time course of plasma antibody concentration after intravenous
   administration of a mixture solution containing SR344 and an anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody
   to mouse.
            FIG. 29 depicts the time course of plasma SR344 concentration after intravenous
25 administration of a mixture solution containing SR344 and an anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody
   to mouse.
   Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
            The present invention provides methods for increasing the number of times of
30 antigen-binding in antigen-binding molecules.       More specifically, the present invention
   provides methods for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding in antigen-binding
   molecules by impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecules at acidic pH
   as compared to that at neutral pH.    Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for
   increasing the number of times of antigen-binding in antigen-binding molecules by substituting
35 histidine for at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecules or inserting at least one
   histidine into the antigen-binding molecules.     In addition, the present invention provides

                                                       12
   methods for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding in antigen-binding molecules by
   substituting, deleting, adding, and/or inserting amino acids in the antibody constant region of
   antigen-binding molecules.
             The present invention also provides methods for increasing the number of antigens that
 5 can be bound by an antigen-binding molecule.         More specifically, the present invention
   provides methods for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule by impairing the antigen-binding ability at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.
   Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for increasing the number of antigens that
   can be bound by an antigen-binding molecule by substituting histidine for at least one amino acid
 0 in the antigen-binding molecules or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding
   molecules.     In addition, the present invention provides methods for increasing the number of
   antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding molecule through substituting, deleting, adding,
   and/or inserting amino acids in the antibody constant region of antigen-binding molecules.
             The present invention also provides methods for dissociating within a cell an antigen
 5 from an extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule.         More specifically, the present
   invention provides methods for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an
   extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding ability at acidic
   pH as compared to that at neutral pH.       Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for
   dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule by
 0 substituting histidine for at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting at
   least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.      In addition, the present invention
   provides methods for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound
   antigen-binding molecule through substituting, deleting, adding, and/or inserting amino acids in
   the antibody constant region of antigen-binding molecule.
25           The present invention also provides methods for releasing an antigen-binding molecule,
   which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the
   outside of the cell.   More specifically, the present invention provides methods for releasing an
   antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an
   antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, by impairing the antigen-binding ability at acidic pH
30 as compared to that at neutral pH.      Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for
   releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into
   a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, by substituting histidine for at least one
   amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting at least one histidine into the
   antigen-binding molecule.       In addition, the present invention provides methods for releasing an
35 antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an

                                                       13
   antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, through substituting, deleting, adding, and/or
   inserting amino acids in the antibody constant region of antigen-binding molecule.
             The present invention also provides methods for increasing the ability of an
   antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens in plasma.        More specifically, the present
 5 invention provides methods for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate
   antigens in plasma by impairing the antigen-binding ability at acidic pH as compared to that at
   neutral pH.    Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for increasing the ability of
   an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens in plasma by substituting histidine for at least
   one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecules or inserting at least one histidine into the
 0 antigen-binding molecules.       In addition, the present invention provides methods for increasing
   the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens in plasma through substituting,
   deleting, adding, and/or inserting amino acids in the antibody constant region of antigen-binding
   molecule.
             The present invention also provides methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of
 5 antigen-binding molecules.       More specifically, the present invention provides methods for
   improving the pharmacokinetics of antigen-binding molecules (prolonging the retention in
   plasma) by impairing the antigen-binding ability at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.
   Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of
   antigen-binding molecules by substituting histidine for at least one amino acid in the
 0 antigen-binding molecules or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecules.
   In addition, the present invention provides methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of
   antigen-binding molecules by substituting, deleting, adding, and/or inserting amino acids in the
   antibody constant region of antigen-binding molecules.
             Further, the present invention provides methods for increasing the ability of the
25 antigen-binding molecules to eliminate antigens in plasma.        More specifically, the present
   invention provides methods for increasing the ability of the antigen-binding molecules to
   eliminate antigens in plasma by impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding
   molecules at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.        Furthermore, the present invention
   provides methods for increasing the ability of the antigen-binding molecules to eliminate
30 antigens in plasma by substituting at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecules with
   histidine or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecules.     In addition, the
   present invention provides methods for increasing the ability of the antigen-binding molecules to
   eliminate antigens in plasma by substituting, deleting, adding, and/or inserting amino acids in the
   antibody constant region of antigen-binding molecules.
35           Herein, "improvement of the pharmacokinetics", "amelioration of the
   pharmacokinetics", "superior pharmacokinetics" are interchangeable with "improvement of the

                                                      14
   retention in plasma (blood)", "amelioration of the retention in plasma (blood)", and "superior
   retention in plasma (blood)", respectively, and these phrases are synonymous.
             Herein, impairing the antigen-binding activity at acidic pH as compared to that at
   neutral pH means that the antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH
 5 6.5 is impaired as compared to that at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0, preferably that the antigen-binding
   activity of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.5 to pH 6.5 is impaired as compared to that at pH
   7.0 to pH 8.0, and more preferably that the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding
   molecule at pH 5.8 is impaired as compared to that at pH 7.4.       Accordingly, in the present
   invention, acidic pH is typically pH 4.0 to pH 6.5, preferably pH 5.5 to pH 6.5, and more
 0 preferably pH 5.8.     Alternatively, in the present invention, neutral pH is typically pH 6.7 to pH
   10.0, preferably pH 7.0 to pH 8.0, and more preferably pH 7.4.
             Herein, the phrase "impairing the antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding
   molecule at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH" is interchangable with the phrase
   "increasing the antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding molecule at neutral pH as compared
 5 to that at acidic pH".    In other words, in the present invention, the difference in the
   antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding molecule should be increased between acidic and
   neutral pHs.     For example, the value of KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) should be increased, as
   described below.      The difference in the antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding molecule
   between acidic and neutral pHs may be increased, for example, by either or both, impairing the
 0 antigen-binding ability at acidic pH and increasing the antigen-binding ability at neutral pH.
             Conditions other than the pH for determining the antigen-binding activity can be
   selected appropriately by those skilled in the art, and the conditions are not particularly limited.
   The antigen-binding activity can be determined, for example, under conditions of MES buffer
   and 37 0 C as described in the Examples herein.      Furthermore, the antigen-binding activity of an
25 antigen-binding molecule can be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art, for
   example, using Biacore (GE Healthcare) or the like, as described in the Examples herein.
   When the antigen is a soluble antigen, the activity of binding to the soluble antigen can be
   assessed by injecting the antigen as an analyte onto a chip immobilized with the antigen-binding
   molecule.     Alternatively, when the antigen is a membrane antigen, the activity of binding to the
30 membrane antigen can be assessed by injecting the antigen-binding molecule as an analyte onto
   an antigen-immobilized chip.
             In the present invention, the difference in the antigen-binding activity between acidic
   and neutral pHs is not particularly limited as long as the antigen-binding activity at acidic pH is
   lower than that at neutral pH.     However, the value of KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4), which is a ratio
35 of dissociation constant (KD) against an antigen at pH 5.8 and that at pH 7.4, is preferably 2 or
   greater, more preferably 10 or greater, and still more preferably 40 or greater.     The upper limit

                                                        15
   of KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is not particularly limited, and may be any value, for example,
   400, 1,000, or 10,000, as long as the molecule can be produced by technologies of those skilled
   in the art.   When the antigen is a soluble antigen, the antigen-binding activity can be presented
   in terms of the dissociation constant (KD).       Alternatively, when the antigen is a membrane
 5 antigen, the antigen-binding activity can be presented in terms of the apparent dissociation
   constant.    The dissociation constant (KD) and apparent dissociation constant (apparent KD) can
   be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, using Biacore (GE
   healthcare), Scatchard plot, or FACS.
             Alternatively, it is possible to use, for example, kd, a dissociation rate constant, as an
 0 indicator for the difference in the antigen-binding activity between acidic and neutral pHs.
   When the dissociation rate constant (kd) is used as an indicator for the difference in the binding
   activity instead of the dissociation constant (KD), the value of kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4), which is a
   ratio of dissociation rate constant (kd) against an antigen at pH 5.8 and that at pH 7.4, is
   preferably 2 or greater, more preferably 5 or greater, even more preferably 10 or greater, and still
 5 more preferably 30 or greater.      The upper limit of kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4) value is not particularly
   limited, and may be any value, for example, 50, 100, or 200, as long as the molecule can be
   produced by technologies common to those skilled in the art.
             When the antigen is a soluble antigen, the antigen-binding activity can be presented in
   terms of the dissociation rate constant (kd).     Alternatively, when the antigen is a membrane
 0 antigen, the antigen-binding activity can be presented in terms of the apparent dissociation rate
   constant.    The dissociation rate constant (kd) and apparent dissociation rate constant (apparent
   kd) can be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, using Biacore
   (GE healthcare) or FACS.
             In the present invention, when the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding
25 molecule is determined at different pHs, it is preferred that the measurement conditions except
   for pH are constant.
             The methods for impairing the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule
   at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4 (methods for conferring the pH-dependent binding
   ability) are not particularly limited and may be any methods.         Such methods include, for
30 example, methods for impairing the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH
   7.4 by substituting histidine for amino acids in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting
   histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.       It is already known that an antibody can be
   conferred with a pH-dependent antigen-binding activity by substituting histidine for amino acids
   in the antibody (FEBS Letter, 309(1), 8588 (1992)).          Such histidine mutation (substitution) or
35 insertion sites are not particularly limited, and any site is acceptable as long as the
   antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lowered than that at pH 7.4 (the value of

                                                       16
   KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) gets greater) as compared to before mutation or insertion.             When the
   antigen-binding molecule is an antibody, such sites include, for example, sites within an
   antibody variable region.    The appropriate number of histidine mutation or insertion sites can be
   appropriately determined by those skilled in the art.       Histidine may be substituted or inserted at
 5 a single site, or two or more sites.   It is also possible to introduce non-histidine mutation
   (mutation with amino acids other than histidine) at the same time.        Furthermore, histidine
   mutation may be introduced simultaneously with histidine insertion.         It is possible to substitute
   or insert histidine at random using a method such as histidine scanning, which uses histidine
   instead of alanine in alanine scanning known to those skilled in the art. Alternatively,
 0 antigen-binding molecules whose KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) is increased as compared to before
   mutation can be selected from an antigen-binding molecule library with random histidine
   mutation or insertion.
             When histidine is substituted for amino acids of an antigen-binding molecule or inserted
   between amino acids of the molecule, it is preferred, but not required, that the antigen-binding
 5 activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 7.4 after histidine substitution or insertion is
   comparable to that at pH 7.4 before histidine substitution or insertion.      The "antigen-binding
   activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 7.4 after histidine substitution or insertion is
   comparable to that at pH 7.4 before histidine substitution or insertion" means that even after
   histidine substitution or insertion, the antigen-binding molecule retains 10% or more, preferably
 0 50% or more, more preferably 80% or more, and still more preferably 90% or more of the
   antigen-binding activity of before histidine substitution or insertion.     When the antigen-binding
   activity of the antigen-binding molecule has been impaired due to histidine substitution or
   insertion, the antigen-binding activity may be adjusted by introducing substitution, deletion,
   addition, and/or insertion of one or more amino acids into the antigen-binding molecule so that
25 the antigen-binding activity becomes comparable to that before histidine substitution or insertion.
   The present invention also includes such antigen-binding molecules having a comparable
   binding activity as a result of substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion of one or more
   amino acids after histidine substitution or insertion.
             Alternative methods for impairing the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding
30 molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4 include methods of substituting non-natural
   amino acids for amino acids in an antigen-binding molecule or inserting non-natural amino acids
   into amino acids of an antigen-binding molecule.        It is known that the pKa can be artificially
   controlled using non-natural amino acids (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 34; Chem Soc Rev.
   2004 Sep 10;33(7):422-30; Amino Acids. 1999;16(3-4):345-79). Thus, in the present invention,
35 non-natural amino acids can be used instead of histidine described above. Such non-natural
   amino acid substitution and/or insertion may be introduced simultaneously with the histidine

                                                      17
   substitution and/or insertion described above.     Any non-natural amino acids may be used in the
   present invention.    It is possible to use non-natural amino acids known to those skilled in the
   art.
             Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule is a substance having an antibody
 5 constant region, alternative methods for impairing the antigen-binding activity of the
   antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4 include methods for modifying
   the antibody constant region contained in the antigen-binding molecule.      Such methods for
   modifying the antibody constant region include, for example, methods for substituting a constant
   region described in the Examples herein.
 0           Alternative methods for modifying the antibody constant region include, for example,
   methods to assess various constant region isotypes (IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4) and select an
   isotype that impairs the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 (increases the dissociation rate at pH
   5.8).   Alternatively, methods include those for impairing the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8
   (increasing the dissociation rate at pH 5.8) by substituting amino acids in the amino acid
 5 sequence of a wild-type isotype (the amino acid sequence of wild type IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or
   IgG4).     The sequence of the hinge region of an antibody constant region is considerably
   different among isotypes (IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4), and the difference in the hinge region
   amino acid sequence has a great impact on the antigen-binding activity.      Thus, it is possible to
   select an appropriate isotype to impair the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 (to increase the
 0 dissociation rate at pH 5.8) by considering the type of antigen or epitope.   Furthermore, since
   the difference in the hinge region amino acid sequence has a significant influence on the
   antigen-binding activity, preferred amino acid substitution sites in the amino acid sequence of a
   wild type isotype are assumed to be within the hinge region.
             When the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding substance at pH 5.8 is
25 weakened compared to that at pH 7.4 (when KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is increased) by the
   above described methods and such, it is generally preferable that the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4)
   value be two times or more, more preferably five times or more, and even more preferably ten
   times or more as compared to that of the original antibody, although the invention is not
   particularly limited thereto.
30           Herein, the "improvement of the pharmacokinetics" means prolongation of the time
   required for the elimination of the antigen-binding molecule from plasma (for example, reaching
   the state where the antigen-binding molecule cannot return to the plasma due to degradation in
   cells, or other reasons) after administration to an animal such as human, mouse, rat, monkey,
   rabbit, or dog, as well as prolongation of the plasma retention time of the antigen-binding
35 molecule being in a form capable of binding to antigens (for example, being in an antigen-free
   form) during the period until it is eliminated from the plasma after administration.     Even if an

                                                      18
   antigen-binding molecule is circulated in plasma, it cannot bind to an antigen when it already
   binds to another antigen.     Accordingly, the period where the antigen-binding molecule can
   newly binds to another antigen is prolonged (the chance to bind another antigen increases) by
   prolonging the period where the antigen-binding molecule is in an antigen-free form.        This
 5 makes it possible to shorten the period where the antigen is free from antigen-binding molecules
   in vivo (in other words, to prolong the period where the antigen is bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule).     For example, the ratio of antigens bound to antigen-binding molecules against the
   antigens in the body in plasma (total of antigen molecules bound to and free from the
   antigen-binding molecules) generally decreases in a certain period of time after the
 0 administration of the antigen-binding molecules.       However, such decrease can be suppressed
   (for example, the degree of decrease can be made smaller) by prolonging the retention time of
   the antigen-binding molecules in a form capable of binding to antigens.      This results in an
   increase in the ratio of antigens bound to antigen-binding molecules against the antigens in the
   body in a certain period of time after antibody administration.
 5           Specifically, in the present invention, the "improvement of the pharmacokinetics" does
   not necessarily mean the prolongation (extension) of the time required for the elimination of the
   antigen-binding molecule after administration.      Even if the time required for the elimination of
   the antigen-binding molecule after administration remains unchanged, the pharmacokinetics can
   be said "improved" in the present invention if
 0           the plasma retention time of the antigen-binding molecule being in a form capable of
   binding to an antigen (for example, the antigen-binding molecule being in an antigen-free form)
   is prolonged;
             the period where the antigen is free from an antigen-binding molecule in the body is
   shortened (in other words, the period where the antigen-binding molecule is bound to an antigen
25 is prolonged); and
             the ratio of antigens bound to antigen-binding molecules against the antigens in the
   body is increased.     Thus, in the present invention, the "improvement of the pharmacokinetics"
   encompasses at least:
             (1) prolongation of the time required for the elimination of the antigen-binding molecule
30 from plasma after administration of the antigen-binding molecule;
             (2) prolongation of the plasma retention time of the antigen-binding molecule in a form
   capable of binding to an antigen after administration of the antigen-binding molecule;
             (3) shortening of the period where the antigen is free from an antigen-binding molecule
   in the body after administration of the antigen-binding molecule (prolongation of the period
35 where the antigen-binding molecule is bound to an antigen in the body); and

                                                     19
            (4) increase in the ratio of antigens bound to antigen-binding molecules to the antigen in
   the body.
            When the antigen is a soluble antigen present in plasma, even if the pharmacokinetics of
   the antigen-binding molecule (rate of elimination from plasma) is equivalent, there are cases
 5 where elimination of antigen bound to the antigen-binding molecule is accelerated.     Reducing
   the pharmacokinetics of the antigen (accelerating elimination from plasma) results in the relative
   improvement of the pharmacokinetics of the antigen-binding molecule, and thus, leads to the
   prolongation of the time of the antigen-binding molecule present in plasma in a form capable of
   binding to antigens.   Thus, in one embodiment, the "improvement of the pharmacokinetics" of
 0 antigen-binding molecules of the present invention includes increasing the rate of eliminating
   soluble antigens from plasma after administration of the antigen-binding molecules (the ability
   of the antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens from plasma).
            In the present invention, when the antigen is a membrane antigen, whether a single
   antigen-binding molecule binds to multiple antigens can be assessed by testing whether the
 5 pharmacokinetics of the antigen-binding molecule is improved.       Whether the
   "pharmacokinetics is improved" can be assessed by the following method. For example,
   whether the time required for the elimination of an antigen-binding molecule after administration
   is prolonged can be assessed by determining any one of parameters for the antigen-binding
   molecule, such as half-life in plasma, mean plasma retention time, and clearance in plasma
 0 ("Pharmacokinetics: Enshu-niyoru Rikai (Understanding through practice)" Nanzando).         For
   example, when the half-life in plasma or mean plasma retention time of an antigen-binding
   molecule administered to mice, rats, monkeys, rabbits, dogs, humans, or other animals is
   prolonged, the pharmacokinetics of the antigen-binding molecule is judged to be improved.
   These parameters can be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art.       For example,
25 the parameters can be appropriately assessed by noncompartmental analysis using
   pharmacokinetics analysis software WinNonlin (Pharsight) according to the appended instruction
   manual.
            Alternatively, whether the plasma retention time of an antigen-binding molecule in a
   form capable of binding to antigens after administration of the antigen-binding molecule is
30 prolonged can be assessed by measuring the plasma concentration of the antigen-free
   antigen-binding molecule and determining any one of parameters for the antigen-free
   antigen-binding molecule, such as half-life in plasma, mean plasma retention time, and clearance
   in plasma.    The concentration of the antigen-free antigen-binding molecule in plasma can be
   measured by methods known to those skilled in the art.      For example, such measurements are
35 described in Clin Pharmacol. 2008 Apr;48(4):406-17.

                                                      20
            Furthermore, whether the period where an antigen is free from the antigen-binding
   molecules in the body after administration of the antigen-binding molecules is shortened (the
   period where the antigen-binding molecule is bound to an antigen in the body is prolonged) can
   be assessed by determining the plasma concentration of the unbound antigen that is free from
 5 antigen-binding molecules, and considering the period where the concentration of free antigen in
   plasm or the amount ratio of free antigen against the total antigen remains low.     The plasma
   concentration of the free antigen or amount ratio of free antigen against total antigen can be
   determined by methods known to those skilled in the art.        For example, such measurements are
   described in Pharm Res. 2006 Jan;23(1):95-103.         Alternatively, when the antigen exerts some
 0 function in vivo, whether the antigen is bound by an antigen-binding molecule that neutralizes
   the antigen's function (antagonistic molecule) can be assessed by testing whether the function of
   the antigen is neutralized.  Whether the function of the antigen is neutralized can be assessed by
   assaying an in vivo marker that reflects the function of the antigen.    Whether the antigen is
   bound by an antigen-binding molecule that activates the function of the antigen (agonistic
 5 molecule) can be assessed by assaying an in vivo marker that reflects the function of the antigen.
            There is no particular limitation on the determination of the plasma concentration of free
   antigen and amount ratio of free antigen against total antigen, and in vivo marker assay, but the
   determination is preferably carried out after a certain period following administration of an
   antigen-binding substance.     In the present invention, such a period following administration of
 0 an antigen-binding substance is not particularly limited, and an appropriate period can be
   determined by those skilled in the art depending on the properties of the administered
   antigen-binding substance and the like.      Examples of the period are: one day after
   administration of an antigen-binding substance; three days after administration of an
   antigen-binding substance, seven days after administration of an antigen-binding substance, 14
25 days after administration of an antigen-binding substance, and 28 days after administration of an
   antigen-binding substance.
            In the present invention, it is preferred to improve the pharmacokinetics in human.
   Even when the plasma retention in human is difficult to determine, it can be predicted based on
   the plasma retention in mice (for example, normal mice, human antigen-expressing transgenic
30 mice, and human FcRn-expressing transgenic mice) or monkeys (for example, cynomolgus
   monkeys).
            Methods for determining the retention in plasma are not particularly limited.      The
   determination can be carried out, for example, according to the methods described in the
   Examples herein.
35          Whether an antigen-binding molecule is capable of binding to antigens multiple times
   can be assessed by testing whether the antigen bound to an antigen-binding molecule under the

                                                     21
   same neutral condition as plasma dissociates under the same acidic condition as endosome and
   how many antigens the antigen-binding molecule can rebind to under the neutral condition.
   Specifically, the assessment can be carried out by allowing the antigen-binding molecule and
   antigen to form a complex under the neutral condition, exposing the complex to an acidic
 5 condition for a predetermined period, and then testing whether the antigen-binding molecule can
   rebind to an antigen under the neutral condition, using a device for assaying antigen-binding
   molecule-antigen reactions, such as Biacore.     When the antigen-binding capacity of the
   antigen-binding molecule conferred with the pH-dependent binding ability has been improved to
   twice that of the antigen-binding molecule before modification, the number of times of binding
 0 of the antigen-binding molecule conferred with the pH-dependent binding ability can be judged
   to be increased to twice that of the antigen-binding molecule before modification.     Alternatively,
   when the antigen is a membrane antigen and thus the antigen-binding molecule is eliminated
   from plasma through antigen-mediated uptake and degradation in a lysosome, whether the
   number of times of binding of the antigen-binding molecule conferred with the pH-dependent
 5 binding ability is increased as compared to that before modification can be assessed by
   comparing the pharmacokinetics or duration of antigen binding between the antigen-binding
   molecule conferred with the pH-dependent binding ability and the antigen-binding molecule
   before modification.     For example, when the antigen-binding duration of the antigen-binding
   molecule conferred with the pH-dependent binding ability is prolonged twice that of the
 0 antigen-binding molecule before modification, the number of times of binding of the
   antigen-binding molecule conferred with the pH-dependent binding ability is judged to be
   increased to twice that of the antigen-binding molecule before modification.     Alternatively,
   when the plasma concentration of an unbound antigen, which is free from the antigen-binding
   molecule, is determined and the period where the plasma concentration of the free antigen or the
25 amount ratio of the free antigen against the total antigen remains low is prolonged to twice, the
   number of times of binding of the antigen-binding molecule conferred with the pH-dependent
   binding ability is judged to be increased to twice that of the antigen-binding molecule before
   modification.
            When the antigen is a soluble antigen, if the antigen bound to an antigen-binding
30 molecule under the neutral condition in plasma dissociates in an endosome, and the
   antigen-binding molecule returns to the plasma, the antigen-binding molecule can again bind to
   an antigen under the neutral condition in plasma.     Thus, an antigen-binding molecule that has
   the characteristics to dissociate with an antigen in acidic condition of an endosome is capable of
   binding to antigens multiple times.     Compared to when the antigen bound to an antigen-binding
35 molecule does not dissociate in an endosome (the antigen remains bound to the antigen-binding
   molecule when returning to plasma), when the antigen bound to an antigen-binding molecule

                                                        22
   dissociates in endosomes, the antigen is delivered to a lysosome and then degraded, and thus, the
   rate of elimination of the antigen from plasma increases.        That is, it is also possible to determine
   whether the antigen-binding molecule is capable of binding to antigens multiple times using the
   rate of elimination of antigen from plasma as an index.        The rate of elimination of the antigen
 5 from plasma can be determined, for example, by administering the antigens (e.g., membrane
   antigen) and antigen-binding molecules in vivo, and then measuring the concentration of antigens
   in plasma.     When an antigen (e.g., membrane antigen) is produced or secreted in vivo, the
   plasma antigen concentration is reduced if the rate of elimination of the antigen from plasma is
   increased.     Thus, it is also possible to determine whether the antigen-binding molecule is
 0 capable of binding to antigens multiple times using the plasma antigen concentration as an index.
             Herein, "increasing the number of times of antigen-binding of the antigen-binding
   molecule" means that the number of cycles is increased when taking as one cycle the process
   where an antigen-binding molecule administered to human, mouse, monkey, or such binds to an
   antigen and is internalized into a cell.     Specifically, herein, "the antigen-binding molecule binds
 5 twice to an antigen" means that the antigen-binding molecule bound by an antigen is internalized
   into a cell and released in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, and the released
   antigen-binding molecule rebinds to another antigen and is internalized into a cell again.
             When the antigen-binding molecule is internalized into a cell, it may be in a form bound
   by a single antigen, or two or more antigens.
 0           Herein, "the number of times of antigen-binding of an antigen-binding molecule is
   increased" does not necessarily mean that the number of times of antigen-binding increases in
   every antigen-binding molecules.        For example, among antigen-binding molecules in an
   antigen-binding-molecule composition, the proportion of antigen-binding molecules that bind to
   antigens twice or more times may increase, or the average number of binding events of
25 antigen-binding molecules in an antigen-binding-molecule composition may increase.
             In the present invention, it is preferred that the number of times of antigen-binding of an
   antigen-binding molecule increases when the molecule is administered to a human.               However,
   when it is difficult to determine the number of times of antigen-binding in human, the number in
   human may be predicted based on the results obtained by in vitro assay or measurement using
30 mice (for example, antigen-expressing transgenic mice and human FcRn-expressing transgenic
   mice) or monkeys (for example, cynomolgus monkeys).
             In the present invention, it is preferred that an antigen-binding molecule binds to
   antigens twice or more times.       For example, it is preferred that, of the antigen-binding
   molecules in an antigen-binding-molecule composition, at least 10% or more, preferably 30% or
35 more, more preferably 50% or more, and still more preferably 80% or more (for example, 90%
   or more, 95% or more, and so on) bind to antigens twice or more times.

                                                       23
             Herein, "increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule" means increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding
   molecule during the period until the antigen-binding molecule is degraded in a lysosome of a cell
   after administration of the antigen-binding molecule to an animal such as human, mouse, or
 5 monkey.
             In general, antibodies such as IgG have two binding domains, and thus a single antibody
   binds to a maximum of two antigens.         An antibody bound to antigen(s) is internalized into a cell,
   and the antibody and antigen(s) are degraded in a lysosome.        In general, antibodies such as IgG
   can bind to a maximum of two antigens.         When the antigen-binding activity of an
 0 antigen-binding molecule such as an antibody at the endosomal pH is impaired as compared to
   that at the plasma pH by the methods of the present invention, the antigen-binding molecule such
   as an antibody internalized into a cell dissociates the antigen and is released to the outside of the
   cell, and thus can bind to another antigen again.      In other words, the methods of the present
   invention enable for an antigen-binding molecule to bind to more antigens than the number of its
 5 antigen-binding sites.    Specifically, by using the methods of the present invention, for example,
   IgG having two antigen-binding sites can bind to three or more antigens, preferably four or more
   antigens, during a period until the antibody is degraded after administration.      For example,
   when the antibody is a neutralizing antibody, "increasing the number of antigens that can be
   bound by an antigen-binding molecule" is interchangable with "increasing the number of
 0 antigens that the antigen-binding molecule can neutralize".       Thus, "bind" can be replaced with
   "neutralize" when the antibody is a neutralizing antibody.
             In the present invention, "increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an
   antigen-binding molecule" does not necessarily mean increasing the number of antigens that can
   be bound by every antigen-binding molecule.         For example, the average number of antigens
25 that can be bound by an antigen-binding molecule in an antigen-binding-molecule composition
   may increase, or the proportion of antigen-binding molecules that can bind to more antigens than
   the number of their antigen-binding sites may increase.
             In the present invention, it is preferred that the number of antigens that can be bound by
   an antigen-binding molecule increases when the molecule is administered to a human.
30 However, when it is difficult to determine the number in human, it may be predicted based on
   the results obtained by in vitro assay or measurement using mice (for example,
   antigen-expressing transgenic mice and human FcRn-expressing transgenic mice) or monkeys
   (for example, cynomolgus monkeys).          When the antibody is a neutralizing antibody, the
   above-described number of times of antigen-binding of the antigen-binding molecule is generally
35 assumed to correlates with the number of antigens which can be neutralized by an
   antigen-binding molecule.      Thus, the number of antigens which can be neutralized by an

                                                       24
   antigen-binding molecule can be determined by the same methods described above for
   determining the number of times of binding of an antigen-binding molecule.
             Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for binding an antigen-binding
   molecule to antigens twice or more times in the body, by administering an antigen-binding
 5 molecule whose antigen-binding activity at acidic pH is lower than that at neutral pH.
             The present invention also relates to methods for neutralizing antigens that are greater in
   number than the number of antigen-binding sites of an antigen-binding molecule having the
   neutralizing activity, by administering the antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding
   activity at acidic pH is lower than that at neutral pH.    Preferably, the present invention relates to
 0 methods for neutralizing three or more antigens, preferably four or more antigens by
   administering IgG whose antigen-binding activity at acidic pH is lower than that at neutral pH.
             The present invention also relates to methods for dissociating within a cell an antigen
   from an extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding ability
   of the antigen-binding molecule at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.        In the present
 5 invention, the antigen may be dissociated from the antigen-binding molecule anywhere within a
   cell; however, it is preferred that the antigen is dissociated within an early endosome.      In the
   present invention, "an antigen is dissociated within a cell from an extracellularly-bound
   antigen-binding molecule" does not necessarily mean that every antigen internalized into a cell
   via binding to the antigen-binding molecule is dissociated from the antigen-binding molecule
 0 within the cell.   It is acceptable that the proportion of antigen that is dissociated from the
   antigen-binding molecule within a cell increases when compared to before impairing the
   antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecule at acidic pH as compared to that at
   neutral pH.
             Furthermore, the present invention relates to methods for enhancing the intracellular
25 binding of an antigen-binding molecule free from an antigen to FcRn by impairing the
   antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecule at acidic pH as compared to that at
   neutral pH.    In general, FcRn binds to an antigen-binding molecule within an endosome.
   However, an antigen-binding molecule bound to a membrane antigen is assumed not to bind to
   FcRn.    Thus, in a preferred embodiment, when the antigen is a membrane-bound antigen, the
30 present invention includes methods for enhancing the endosomal dissociation of antigens from
   antigen-binding molecules and thus enhancing the FcRn binding of the antigen-binding
   molecules, by impairing the antigen-binding ability of an antigen-binding molecule at the
   endosomal pH (acidic pH) as compared to that at the plasma pH (neutral pH).           When the
   antigen is a soluble antigen, the antigen-binding molecule can bind to FcRn in the presence or
35 absence of the antigen.     If dissociation of the antigen from the antigen-binding molecule within
   endosomes can be promoted by impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding

                                                         25
   molecule at intraendosomal (acidic) pH as compared to that at plasma (neutral) pH, the FcRn
   binding of the antigen-binding molecule that is "free from an antigen" can be enhanced by the
   methods of the present invention.
             Regardless of whether an antigen is membrane-bound or soluble, if an antigen-binding
 5 molecule free from an antigen can return to plasma with FcRn, the antigen-binding molecule can
   bind to the antigen again.    By repeating this process, the antigen-binding molecule can bind to
   the antigen multiple times.     In the present invention, "enhancing the FcRn binding of an
   antigen-binding molecule within a cell" does not necessarily mean that every antigen-binding
   molecule binds to FcRn.      It is acceptable that the proportion of an antigen-binding molecule
 0 free from an antigen that binds to FcRn within a cell increases when compared to before
   impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecule at the endosomal pH as
   compared to that at the plasma pH.        Preferred antigen-binding molecules in the methods of the
   present invention for enhancing the intracellular binding between the antigen-binding molecule
   and FcRn include, for example, antigen-binding molecules that bind to membrane-bound
 5 antigens (membrane antigens) such as membrane proteins.             Other preferable antigen-binding
   molecules include antigen-binding molecules that bind to soluble antigens such as soluble
   proteins.
             The methods of enhancing the binding of an antigen-binding molecule and FcRn within
   a cell are alternatively expressed as the methods of promoting the FcRn binding of an
 0 antigen-binding molecule within a cell, for example, within endosomes.
             Furthermore, the present invention relates to methods for releasing an antigen-binding
   molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free
   form to the outside of the cell, by impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding
   molecule at acidic pH as compared that at neutral pH.          In the present invention, "releasing an
25 antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an
   antigen-free form to the outside of the cell" does not necessarily mean that every antigen-binding
   molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, is released in an
   antigen-free form to the outside of the cell.      It is acceptable that the proportion of
   antigen-binding molecules that are released to the outside of the cell increases when compared to
30 before impairing the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecule at acidic pH as
   compared to that at neutral pH.      It is preferred that the antigen-binding molecule released to the
   outside of a cell retains the antigen-binding ability.      Furthermore, the method of releasing an
   antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an
   antigen-free form to the outside of the cell can also be referred to as a method of conferring to
35 the antigen-binding molecule a property that the antigen-binding molecule becomes more easily

                                                      26
   released to the outside of the cell in an antigen-free form when the antigen-binding molecule is
   bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell.
             Furthermore, the present invention relates to methods for increasing the ability of the
   antigen-binding molecules to eliminate antigens in plasma by impairing the antigen-binding
 5 ability of the antigen-binding molecules at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.      In the
   present invention "the ability to eliminate antigens in plasma" refers to the ability to eliminate
   from plasma antigens that are present in plasma, when the antigen-binding molecules are
   administered in vivo or are secreted in vivo.    Thus, in the present invention, "increasing the
   ability of the antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigen in plasma" means that the rate of
 0 elimination of antigens from plasma when the antigen-binding molecules are administered in
   vivo is accelerated as compared to that before lowering the antigen-binding ability of the
   antigen-binding molecules at acidic pH as compared to that at neutral pH.       Whether the ability
   of the antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens in plasma is increased can be determined
   by, for example, administering soluble antigens and antigen-binding molecules in vivo, and then
 5 measuring the concentration of soluble antigens in plasma.       When the concentration of soluble
   antigens in plasma after the administration of soluble antigens and antigen-binding molecules is
   reduced by lowering the antigen-binding ability of the antigen-binding molecule at acidic pH
   than that at neutral pH, it can be determined that the ability of the antigen-binding molecule to
   eliminate antigens in plasma is increased.
 0           The present invention also relates to methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of an
   antigen-binding molecule by substituting histidine or non-natural amino acid for at least one
   amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting histidine or non-natural amino acid into
   the molecule.
             Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for increasing the number of times
25 of antigen-binding of an antigen-binding molecule by substituting histidine or non-natural amino
   acid for at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting histidine or
   non-natural amino acid into the molecule.
             In addition, the present invention relates to methods for increasing the number of
   antigens that can be bound by an antigen-binding molecule by substituting histidine or
30 non-natural amino acid for at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule or inserting
   histidine or non-natural amino acid into the molecule.
             The present invention also provides methods for dissociating an antigen within a cell
   from an extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule by substituting at least one amino acid
   in the antigen-binding molecule with histidine or non-natural amino acid, or inserting histidine or
35 non-natural amino acid into the molecule.

                                                       27
             The present invention also provides methods for releasing an antigen-binding molecule,
   which has been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the
   outside of the cell by substituting at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule with
   histidine or non-natural amino acid, or inserting histidine or non-natural amino acid into the
 5 molecule.
             The present invention also provides methods for increasing the ability of the
   antigen-binding molecule to eliminate antigens in plasma by substituting at least one amino acid
   in the antigen-binding molecule with histidine or non-natural amino acid, or inserting histidine or
   non-natural amino acid into the molecule.
 0           The site of histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation (substitution, insertion, etc.) is
   not particularly limited.    A histidine or non-natural amino acid may be substituted or inserted at
   any site.   Preferred sites of histidine or non-natural amino acid substitution or insertion include,
   for example, sites within a region that has an impact on the antigen-binding ability of the
   antigen-binding molecule.      For example, when the antigen-binding molecule is an antibody,
 5 such sites include an antibody variable region or CDR.        The number of histidine or non-natural
   amino acid mutations is not particularly limited.      Histidine or non-natural amino acid may be
   substituted or inserted at a single site, or at two or more sites.   Furthermore, a deletion, addition,
   insertion, and/or substitution of other amino acids may be introduced simultaneously with the
   histidine or non-natural amino acid substitution or insertion.
 0           In the present invention, when the antigen-binding molecule is an antibody, possible
   sites of histidine or non-natural amino acid substitution include, for example, sites within the
   CDR sequence or sequence responsible for the CDR structure of an antibody.           Such sites
   include, for example, the sites listed below.     The amino acid positions are numbered based on
   the Kabat numbering (Kabat EA et al., (1991) Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest,
25 NIH).
             Heavy chain: H27, H31, H32, H33, H35, H50, H58, H59, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65,
   H99, H100b, and H102
             Light chain: L24, L27, L28, L32, L53, L54, L56, L90, L92, and L94
             Among the above sites, H32, H61, L53, L90, and L94 could be universal modification
30 sites.
             When the antigen is the IL-6 receptor (e.g., human IL-6 receptor), preferable
   modification sites include the following.      However, the modification sites are not particularly
   limited thereto.
             Heavy chain: H27, H31, H32, H35, H50, H58, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65, H100b, and
35 H102
             Light chain: L24, L27, L28, L32, L53, L56, L90, L92, and L94

                                                     28
            When histidine or non-natural amino acid is substituted at multiple sites, preferred
   combinations of substitution sites include, for example, the combination of H27, H31, and H35;
   combination of H27, H31, H32, H35, H58, H62, and H102; combination of L32 and L53; and
   combination of L28, L32, and L53.       In addition, preferred combinations of substitution sites of
 5 heavy and light chains include the combination of H27, H31, L32, and L53.
            When the antigen is IL-6 (e.g., human IL-6), preferable modification sites include the
   following.    However, the modification sites are not particularly limited thereto.
            Heavy chain: H32, H59, H61, and H99
            Light chain: L53, L54, L90, and L94
 0          When the antigen is the IL-31 receptor (e.g., human IL-31 receptor), preferable
   modification sites include H33.     However, the modification sites are not particularly limited
   thereto.
            Regarding the above sites, only one site may be substituted with histidine or non-natural
   amino acid.     Alternatively, multiple sites may be substituted with histidine or non-natural amino
 5 acid.
            The methods of the present invention are applicable to any antigen-binding molecules,
   regardless of the type of target antigen.
            The antigen-binding molecules of the present invention are not particularly limited as
   long as they have the specific binding activity to an antigen of interest.   Preferred
 0 antigen-binding molecules of the present invention include, for example, substances having an
   antigen-binding domain of an antibody.       The antigen-binding domain of an antibody includes,
   for example, CDR and variable region.        When the antigen-binding domain of an antibody is
   CDR, the antigen-binding molecule may include all of the six CDRs of a whole antibody, or one,
   or two or more of them.     Alternatively, when an antigen-binding molecule includes CDR as a
25 binding domain of an antibody, the CDR may include amino acid deletion, substitution, addition,
   and/or insertion, or may be a partial CDR.
            Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention relates to methods for improving the pharmacokinetics of antigen-binding
   molecules by modification (for example, amino acid substitution, deletion, addition, and/or
30 insertion) of the antibody constant region in the antigen-binding molecule.
            In addition, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention provides methods for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding of
   an antigen-binding molecule by modification (for example, amino acid substitution, deletion,
   addition, and/or insertion) of the antibody constant region in the antigen-binding molecule.
35          Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention relates to methods for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound

                                                     29
   by an antigen-binding molecule by modification (for example, amino acid substitution, deletion,
   addition, and/or insertion) of the antibody constant region in the antigen-binding molecule.
             Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention relates to methods for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an
 5 extracellularly-bound antigen-binding molecule by modification (for example, amino acid
   substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion) of the antibody constant region in the
   antigen-binding molecule.
             Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention relates to methods for releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has
 0 been bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the
   cell, by modification (for example, amino acid substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion)
   of the antibody constant region in the antigen-binding molecule.
             Furthermore, when the antigen-binding molecule includes an antibody constant region,
   the present invention relates to methods for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule
 5 to eliminate antigens in plasma by modification (for example, amino acid substitution, deletion,
   addition, and/or insertion) of the antibody constant region in the antigen-binding molecule.
             In a preferred embodiment, the antigen-binding substance of the present invention
   includes antigen-binding substances including an FcRn-binding region.        After internalized into
   cells, antigen-binding substances including an FcRn-binding region can return to the plasma by
 0 the FcRn salvage pathway.      The FcRn-binding region is preferably a domain that directly binds
   to FcRn.    Preferred FcRn-binding region includes, for example, antibody Fc regions.
   However, the FcRn-binding region of the present invention may be a region that can bind to a
   polypeptide having the ability to bind to FcRn such as albumin or IgG, since such region that can
   bind to the polypeptide having FcRn-binding ability can binds indirectly to FcRn via albumin,
25 IgG, etc.
             Antigens recognized by antigen-binding molecules such as antibodies of interest in the
   methods of the present invention are not particularly limited.     Such antibodies of interest may
   recognize any antigen.     Antibodies whose pharmacokinetics is to be improved by the methods
   of the present invention include, for example, antibodies that recognize membrane antigens such
30 as receptor proteins (membrane-bound receptors and soluble receptors) and cell surface markers,
   and antibodies that recognize soluble antigens such as cytokines.     Preferred examples of
   membrane antigens of the present invention include membrane proteins.         Examples of soluble
   antigens of the present invention include soluble proteins.     Antigens recognized by antibodies
   whose pharmacokinetics is to be improved by the methods of the present invention include, for
35 example, IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9, IL-10, IL-11, IL-12, IL-15, IL-31,
   IL-23, IL-2 receptor, IL-6 receptor, OSM receptor, gp130, IL-5 receptor, CD40, CD4, Fas,

                                                       30
   osteopontin, CRTH2, CD26, PDGF-D, CD20, monocyte chemotactic factor, CD23, TNF-,
   HMGB-1, o4 integrin, ICAM-1, CCR2, CD1 1a, CD3, IFNy, BLyS, HLA-DR, TGF-p, CD52,
   and IL-31 receptor. Particularly preferred antigens include IL-6 receptor.
             Furthermore, the antigen-binding molecule of interest in the methods of the present
 5 invention includes antigen-binding molecules having an antagonistic activity (antagonistic
   antigen-binding molecules) and antigen-binding molecules having an agonistic activity
   (agonistic antigen-binding molecules).        In a preferred embodiment, the antigen-binding
   molecule includes antagonistic antigen-binding molecules, in particular, antagonistic
   antigen-binding molecules that recognize membrane antigens such as receptors, or soluble
 0 antigens such as cytokines.     For example, an antagonistic antigen-binding molecule that
   recognizes a receptor inhibits the ligand-receptor binding by binding to the receptor, and thus
   inhibits the signaling mediated via the receptor.
             In the present invention, the antigen-binding molecule of interest is not particularly
   limited, and may be any antigen-binding molecules.         The antigen-binding molecule of the
 5 present invention preferably includes both antigen-binding activity (antigen-binding region) and
   FcRn-binding region.      In particular, preferred antigen-binding molecule of the present invention
   includes a region that binds to human FcRn.        The antigen-binding molecule including both
   antigen-binding activity and FcRn-binding region includes, for example, antibodies.          The
   antibodies preferred in the context of the present invention include, for example, IgG antibodies.
 0 When the antibody to be used is an IgG antibody, the type of IgG is not limited; the IgG
   belonging to any isotype (subclass) such as IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4 can be used.
   Furthermore, amino acid mutations (e.g., M73) may be introduced into the constant region of
   any of these IgG isotypes.     Amino acid mutations to be introduced include, for example, those
   potentiate or impair the binding to Fcy receptor (Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Mar
25 14;103(11):4005-10) and those potentiate or impair the binding to FcRn (J Biol Chem. 2001 Mar
   2;276(9):6591-604), but are not limited to these examples.       Alternatively, it is also possible to
   alter the pH-dependent binding by selecting an appropriate constant region such as of IgG2.
             When the antigen-binding molecule of interest of the present invention is an antibody, it
   may be an antibody derived from any animal, such as a mouse antibody, human antibody, rat
30 antibody, rabbit antibody, goat antibody, or camel antibody.       Furthermore, the antibody may be
   a modified antibody, for example, a chimeric antibody, and in particular, a modified antibody
   including amino acid substitution in the sequence of a humanized antibody, etc.          The antibodies
   also include bispecific antibodies, antibody modification products linked with various molecules,
   and polypeptides including antibody fragments.
35           "Chimeric antibodies" are antibodies prepared by combining sequences derived from
   different animals.    Specifically, the chimeric antibody includes, for example, antibodies having

                                                      31
   heavy and light chain variable (V) regions from a mouse antibody and heavy and light chain
   constant (C) regions from a human antibody.
             "Humanized antibodies", also referred to as reshaped human antibodies, are antibodies
   in which complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of an antibody derived from a nonhuman
 5 mammal, for example, a mouse, are transplanted into the CDRs of a human antibody.            Methods
   for identifying CDRs are known (Kabat et al., Sequence of Proteins of Immunological Interest
   (1987), National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md.; Chothia et al., Nature (1989) 342:877).
   General genetic recombination technologies suitable for this purpose are also known (see
   European Patent Application EP 125023; and WO 96/02576).
 0           Bispecific antibody refers to an antibody that has, in the same antibody molecule,
   variable regions that recognize different epitopes. A bispecific antibody may be an antibody
   that recognizes two or more different antigens, or an antibody that recognizes two or more
   different epitopes on a same antigen.
             Furthermore, polypeptides including antibody fragments include, for example, Fab
 5 fragments, F(ab')2 fragments, scFv (Nat Biotechnol. 2005 Sep;23(9):1126-36), domain
   antibodies (dAb) (WO 2004/058821, WO 2003/002609), scFv-Fc (WO 2005/037989), dAb-Fc,
   and Fc fusion proteins. Of these, molecules including an Fc domain have the activity of
   binding to FcRn, and are therefore suitable for use in the methods discovered in the present
   invention.
 0           Further, the antigen-binding molecules that are applicable to the present invention may
   be antibody-like molecules.     An antibody-like molecule is a molecule that can exhibit functions
   by binding to a target molecule (Current Opinion in Biotechnology 2006, 17:653-658; Current
   Opinion in Biotechnology 2007, 18:1-10; Current Opinion in Structural Biology 1997,
   7:463-469; Protein Science 2006, 15:14-27), and includes, for example, DARPins (WO
25 2002/020565), Affibody (WO 1995/001937), Avimer (WO 2004/044011; WO 2005/040229),
   and Adnectin (WO 2002/032925). If these antibody-like molecules can bind to target
   molecules in a pH-dependent manner, it is possible for a single molecule to bind multiple target
   molecules.
             Furthermore, the antigen-binding molecule may be a receptor protein or a receptor-Fc
30 fusion protein that binds to a target, including, for example, TNFR-Fc fusion protein, IL1R-Fc
   fusion protein, VEGFR-Fc fusion protein, and CTLA4-Fc fusion protein (Nat Med. 2003
   Jan;9(1):47-52; BioDrugs. 2006;20(3):151-60).         If such receptor proteins and receptor-Fc
   fusion proteins can bind to target molecules in a pH-dependent manner, it is possible for a single
   molecule to bind multiple target molecules.
35           Moreover, the antigen-binding molecule may be an artificial ligand protein or artificial
   ligand fusion protein that binds to a target and has the neutralizing effect, and includes, for

                                                     32
   example, mutant IL-6 (EMBO J. 1994 Dec 15;13(24):5863-70).           If such artificial ligand
   proteins and artificial ligand fusion proteins can bind to target molecules in a pH-dependent
   manner, it is possible for a single molecule to bind multiple target molecules.
             Furthermore, the antibodies of the present invention may include modified sugar chains.
 5 Antibodies with modified sugar chains include, for example, antibodies with modified
   glycosylation (WO 99/54342), antibodies that are deficient in fucose that is added to the sugar
   chain (WO 00/61739; WO 02/31140; WO 2006/067847; W02 006/067913), and antibodies
   having sugar chains with bisecting GlcNAc (WO 02/79255).
             Although the methods of the present invention are not limited to any specific theory, the
 0 relationship between making the antigen-binding ability at acidic pH weaker as compared to that
   at neutral pH, the improvement of the pharmacokinetics, and the multiple-time binding to the
   antigen can be explained as follows, for instance.
             For example, when the antibody is an antibody that binds to a membrane antigen, the
   antibody administered into the body binds to the antigen and then is taken up via internalization
 5 into endosomes in the cells together with the antigen and while the antibody is kept bound to the
   antigen.   Then, the antibody translocates to lysosomes while the antibody is kept bound to the
   antigen, and the antibody is degraded by the lysosome together with the antigen.        The
   internalization-mediated elimination from the plasma is called antigen-dependent elimination,
   and such elimination has been reported with numerous antibody molecules (Drug Discov Today.
 0 2006 Jan;11(1-2):81-8).      When a single molecule of IgG antibody binds to antigens in a
   divalent manner, the single antibody molecule is internalized while the antibody is kept bound to
   the two antigen molecules, and degraded in the lysosome.       Accordingly, in the case of typical
   antibodies, one molecule of IgG antibody cannot bind to three or more molecules of antigen.
   For example, a single IgG antibody molecule having a neutralizing activity cannot neutralize
25 three or more antigen molecules.
             The relatively prolonged retention (slow elimination) of IgG molecules in the plasma is
   due to the function of FcRn which is known as a salvage receptor of IgG molecules.          When
   taken up into endosomes via pinocytosis, IgG molecules bind to FcRn expressed in the
   endosomes under the acidic condition in the endosomes.        While IgG molecules that did not bind
30 to FcRn transfer to lysosomes where they are degraded, IgG molecules that bound to FcRn
   translocate to the cell surface and return again in the plasma by dissociating from FcRn under the
   neutral condition in the plasma.
             Alternatively, when the antigen is an antigen that binds to a soluble antigen, the
   antibody administered into the body binds to the antigen and then is taken up into cells while the
35 antibody is kept bound to the antigen.     Many antibodies taken up into cells are released to the
   outside of cells via FcRn.    However, since the antibodies are released to the outside of cells,

                                                      33
   with the antibodies kept bound to antigens, the antibodies cannot bind to antigens again. Thus,
   similar to antibodies that bind to membrane antigens, in the case of typical antibodies, one
   molecule of IgG antibody cannot bind to three or more antigen molecules.
             The present inventors reasoned that, when antibodies that bound to antigens such as
 5 membrane antigens are taken up into endosomes by internalization, while the antibodies that are
   kept bound to the antigens translocate to lysosomes and are degraded, the IgG antibodies whose
   antigens dissociated in the endosomes could bind to FcRn that are expressed in the endosomes.
   Specifically, the present inventors discovered that an antibody that strongly binds to an antigen
   in the plasma but weakly binds to the antigen within the endosome can bind to an antigen in
 0 plasma and be taken up while kept forming a complex with the antigen into endosomes in the
   cells via internalization; dissociate from the antigen in the endosome; then bind to FcRn and
   translocate to the cell surface; and return again in the plasma in a state not bound to antigens to
   neutralize multiple membrane-bound antigens.        Furthermore, the present inventors discovered
   that an antibody having the property of strongly binding to antigens in the plasma but weakly
 5 binding to antigens in the endosome can dissociate from the antigens in the endosome even when
   the antibody had bound to antigens such as soluble antigens; therefore, they are released again
   into the plasma in a state not bound to antigens and can neutralize multiple soluble antigens.
             In particular, the present inventors noted that the pH in the plasma was different from
   the pH in the endosomes, and thus discovered that antibodies that strongly bind to antigens under
 0 plasma pH condition but that weakly bind to antigens under endosomal pH condition were
   superior in retention in the plasma, because one antibody molecule could bind to multiple
   antigens.
             The endosomes, which are membrane vesicles, form networks in the cytoplasm of
   eukaryotic cells and are responsible for the metabolism of macromolecules in the process from
25 the cell membrane to the lysosomes.       The pH in the endosomes has been reported be generally
   an acidic pH of 5.5 to 6.0 (Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2004 Feb;5(2):121-32).        Meanwhile, the pH
   in the plasma is known to be almost neutral (normally, pH 7.4).
             Accordingly, an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at acidic pH
   is weaker than the antigen-binding activity at neutral pH binds to the antigen in the plasma which
30 have a neutral pH, is taken up into cells, and then dissociates from the antigen in the endosomes
   which have an acidic pH.       The antigen-binding molecule that dissociated from the antigen binds
   to FcRn, translocates to the cell surface, and returns again in the plasma in a state not bound to
   antigens.    As a result, the antigen-binding molecule can bind to antigens multiple times, and the
   pharmacokinetics is improved.
35
   <Antigen-binding molecule substances>

                                                     34
             Furthermore, the present invention provides antigen-binding molecules whose
   antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is lower than that at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0, preferably
   antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.0 to pH 6.0 is lower than that
   at pH 7.0 to 8.0.    Specifically, antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH
 5 4.0 to pH 6.5 is lower than that at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 include, for example, antigen-binding
   molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4.
   Antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4
   can also be expressed as antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 is
   higher than that at pH 5.8.
 0           As for the antigen-binding molecules of the present invention whose antigen-binding
   activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4, so long as the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is
   lower than the binding at pH 7.4, there is no limitation on the difference in binding activity, and
   the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 only need to be lower, even slightly.
             A preferred embodiment of an antigen-binding molecule of the present invention whose
 5 antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4 includes antigen-binding
   molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 is twice or greater than that at pH 5.8.       A
   more preferred embodiment of the antigen-binding molecule includes antigen-binding molecules
   whose antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 is ten times or greater than that at pH 5.8.     A still more
   preferred embodiment of the antigen-binding molecule includes antigen-binding molecules
 0 whose antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 is 40 times or greater than that at pH 5.8.
             Specifically, in a preferred embodiment, the antigen-binding molecule of the present
   invention has antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 that is lower than that at pH 7.4, wherein the
   value of KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4), which is a ratio of KD for the antigen at pH 5.8 and that at pH
   7.4, is preferably 2 or greater, more preferably 10 or greater, and still more preferably 40 or
25 greater.    The upper limit of the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is not particularly limited, and
   may be any value, for example, 400, 1000, or 10000, as long as production is possible using the
   technologies of those skilled in the art.
             In another preferred embodiment, the antigen-binding molecule of the present invention
   whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4, has a value of
30 kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4), which is a ratio of the kd for the antigen at pH 5.8 and the kd for the antigen
   at pH 7.4, that is 2 or greater, more preferably 5 or greater, even more preferably 10 or greater,
   and still more preferably 30 or greater.    The upper limit of the kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4) value is not
   particularly limited, and may be any value, for example, 50, 100, or 200, as long as production is
   possible using the technologies of those skilled in the art.
35           Conditions other than the pH at which the antigen-binding activity is measured can be
   appropriately selected by those skilled in the art, and the conditions are not particularly limited;

                                                      35
   however, the measurements can be carried out, for example, under conditions of MES buffer and
   37'C, as described in the Examples.        Furthermore, the antigen-binding activity of an
   antigen-binding molecule can be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art, for
   example, using Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) or the like, as described in the Examples.
 5           It is presumed that such an antigen-binding molecule, which weakly binds to an antigen
   at acidic pH, easily dissociates from the antigen under the endosomal acidic condition, and that
   after internalization into cells, it binds to FcRn and is easily released to the outside of the cells.
   The antigen-binding molecule released to the outside of the cells without being degraded inside
   the cells can bind again to other antigens.     Accordingly, when the antigen-binding molecule is,
 0 for example, an antigen-binding neutralizing molecule, the antigen-binding molecule that easily
   dissociates from the antigen under the endosomal acidic condition can bind and neutralize
   antigens multiple times.     As a result, antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity
   at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is lower than that at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 are superior in retention in the plasma.
             In a preferred embodiment, the antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding
 5 activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4 includes antigen-binding molecules in which at
   least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule is substituted with histidine or a
   non-natural amino acid, or in which at least one histidine or a non-natural amino acid has been
   inserted.    The site into which the histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation is introduced is
   not particularly limited and may be any site, as long as the antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is
 0 weaker than that at pH 7.4 (the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is greater or the
   kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4) value is greater) as compared to before substitution.        Examples include
   variable regions and CDRs of an antibody in the case the antigen-binding molecule is an
   antibody.     The number of amino acids to be substituted with histidine or non-natural amino acid
   and the number of amino acids to be inserted can be appropriately determined by those skilled in
25 the art.   One amino acid may be substituted with histidine or non-natural amino acid, or one
   amino acid may be inserted, or two or more amino acids may be substituted with histidine or
   non-natural amino acids, or two or more amino acids may be inserted.          Moreover, apart from
   the substitutions to histidine or to non-natural amino acid or insertion of histidine or of
   non-natural amino acid, deletion, addition, insertion, and/or substitution and such of other amino
30 acids may also be simultaneously carried out.       Substitutions to histidine or to non-natural amino
   acid or insertion of histidine or of non-natural amino acid may be carried out at random using a
   method such as histidine scanning, which uses histidine instead of alanine in alanine scanning
   which is known to those skilled in the art.     Antigen-binding molecules whose
   KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) or kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4) is increased as compared to before mutation can
35 be selected from antigen-binding molecules into which histidine or non-natural amino acid
   mutation has been introduced at random.

                                                     36
             Preferred antigen-binding molecules with mutation to histidine or to non-natural amino
   acid and whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4 include, for
   example, antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 after the mutation
   to histidine or to non-natural amino acid is equivalent to the antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4
 5 before the mutation to histidine or to non-natural amino acid.     In the present invention, "an
   antigen-binding molecule after histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation has an
   antigen-binding activity that is equivalent to that of the antigen-binding molecule before
   histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation" means that, when the antigen-binding activity of
   an antigen-binding molecule before histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation is set as 100%,
 0 the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule after histidine or non-natural amino
   acid mutation is at least 10% or more, preferably 50% or more, more preferably 80% or more,
   and still more preferably 90% or more.      The antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4 after histidine or
   non-natural amino acid mutation may be greater than the antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4
   before histidine or non-natural amino acid mutation.      When the antigen-binding activity of the
 5 antigen-binding molecule is decreased due to substitution or insertion of histidine or non-natural
   amino acid, the antigen-binding activity may be adjusted by introducing substitution, deletion,
   addition, and/or insertion and such of one or more amino acids into the antigen-binding molecule
   so that the antigen-binding activity becomes equivalent to that before histidine substitution or
   insertion.   The present invention also includes such antigen-binding molecules whose binding
 0 activity has been made equivalent as a result of substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion
   of one or more amino acids after histidine substitution or insertion.
             Further, when the antigen-binding molecule is a substance including an antibody
   constant region, in another preferred embodiment of the antigen-binding molecule whose
   antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4, the present invention includes
25 methods for modifying antibody constant regions contained in the antigen-binding molecules.
   Specific examples of antibody constant regions after modification include the constant regions
   described in the Examples.
             When the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding substance at pH 5.8 is
   weakened compared to that at pH 7.4 (when KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is increased) by the
30 above described methods and such, it is generally preferable that the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4)
   value is two times or more, more preferably five times or more, and even more preferably ten
   times or more as compared to that of the original antibody, but is not particularly limited thereto.
             The antigen-binding molecules of the present invention may further have any other
   property, as long as their antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is lower than that at pH 6.7
35 to pH 10.0.    For example, the antigen-binding molecules may be agonistic or antagonistic
   antigen-binding molecules.      Preferred antigen-binding molecules of the present invention

                                                    37
   include, for example, antagonistic antigen-binding molecules.      In general, an antagonistic
   antigen-binding molecule inhibits receptor-mediated intracellular signaling by inhibiting the
   binding between a ligand (agonist) and the receptor.
             Furthermore, the present invention provides antibodies in which amino acid on at least
 5 one site indicated below is substituted with histidine or non-natural amino acid.    Amino acid
   positions are indicated based on the Kabat numbering (Kabat EA et al., (1991) Sequences of
   Proteins of Immunological Interest, NIH).
             Heavy chain: H27, H31, H32, H33, H35, H50, H58, H59, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65,
   H99, H100b, and H102
 0           Light chain: L24, L27, L28, L32, L53, L54, L56, L90, L92, and L94
             Among the above sites, H32, H61, L53, L90, and L94 could be universal modification
   sites.
             When the antigen is the IL-6 receptor (e.g., human IL-6 receptor), preferable
   modification sites include the following.   However, the modification sites are not particularly
 5 limited thereto.
             Heavy chain: H27, H31, H32, H35, H50, H58, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65, H100b, and
   H102
             Light chain: L24, L27, L28, L32, L53, L56, L90, L92, and L94
             When histidine or non-natural amino acid is substituted at multiple sites, preferred
 0 combinations of substitution sites include, for example, the combination of H27, H31, and H35;
   combination of H27, H31, H32, H35, H58, H62, and H102; combination of L32 and L53; and
   combination of L28, L32, and L53.      In addition, preferred combinations of substitution sites of
   heavy and light chains include the combination of H27, H3 1, L32, and L53.
             When the antigen is IL-6 (e.g., human IL-6), preferable modification sites include the
25 following.    However, the modification sites are not particularly limited thereto.
             Heavy chain: H32, H59, H61, and H99
             Light chain: L53, L54, L90, and L94
             When the antigen is the IL-31 receptor (e.g., human IL-31 receptor), preferable
   modification sites include H33.    However, the modification sites are not particularly limited
30 thereto.
             The antigen-binding molecules of the present invention may recognize any antigen.
   Antigens recognized by antibodies of the present invention specifically include the
   above-mentioned receptor proteins (membrane-bound receptors or soluble receptors), membrane
   antigens such as cell surface markers, and soluble antigens such as cytokines, for example, IL-I,
35 IL-2     , IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-9- 10,
            IL-                                           IL-11, IL-12, IL-15, IL-31, IL-23, IL-2
   receptor, IL-6 receptor, OSM receptor, gp130, IL-5 receptor, CD40, CD4, Fas, osteopontin,

                                                        38
   CRTH2, CD26, PDGF-D, CD20, monocyte chemoattractant factor, CD23, TNF-a, HMGB-1, a4
   integrin, ICAM-1, CCR2, CD11a, CD3, IFN7, BLyS, HLA-DR, TGF- P, CD52, and IL-31
   receeptor.
             Particularly preferred antigens include the IL-6 receptor.
 5           The antigen-binding molecules of the present invention are described above.
             In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the antigen-binding molecules
   include antibodies.     Antibodies having antigen-binding activity and FcRn-binding region
   include, for example, IgG antibodies.        When the antibody used is an IgG antibody, there is no
   limitation as to its type.   It is possible to use IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, and such.
 0           The origin of antibody of the present invention is not particularly limited, and may be of
   any origin.    It is possible to use, for example, mouse antibodies, human antibodies, rat
   antibodies, rabbit antibodies, goat antibodies, camel antibodies, and others.      Furthermore, the
   antibodies may be, for example, the above-described chimeric antibodies, and in particular,
   modified antibodies with amino acid sequence substitutions, such as humanized antibodies.
 5 The antibodies may also be the above-described bispecific antibodies, antibody modification
   products to which various molecules have been linked, polypeptides including antibody
   fragments, and antibodies with modified sugar chains.
             Generation of chimeric antibodies is known.       In the case of a human-mouse chimeric
   antibody, for example, a DNA encoding an antibody V region may be linked to a DNA encoding
 0 a human antibody C region; this can be inserted into an expression vector and introduced into a
   host to produce the chimeric antibody.
             "Humanized antibodies" are also referred to as reshaped human antibodies, and are
   antibodies in which the complementarity determining region (CDR) of a nonhuman mammal, for
   example a mouse, is transplanted to the CDR of a human antibody.           Methods for identifying
25 CDRs are known (Kabat et al., Sequence of Proteins of Immunological Interest (1987), National
   Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md.; Chothia et al., Nature (1989) 342:877).        General genetic
   recombination technologies suitable for this purpose are also known (see European Patent
   Application EP 125023; and WO 96/02576).            Humanized antibodies can be produced by known
   methods, for example, the CDR of a mouse antibody can be determined, and a DNA encoding an
30 antibody in which the CDR is linked to the framework region (FR) of a human antibody is
   obtained.    Humanized antibodies can then be produced using a system that uses conventional
   expression vectors.      Such DNAs can be synthesized by PCR, using as primers several
   oligonucleotides prepared to have portions that overlap with the end regions of both the CDR
   and FR (see the method described in WO 98/13388).           Human antibody FRs linked via CDRs
35 are selected such that the CDRs form a suitable antigen binding site.       If required, amino acids in
   the FRs of an antibody variable region may be substituted so that the CDRs of the reshaped

                                                     39
   human antibody can form a suitable antigen binding site (Sato, K. et al., Cancer Res. (1993)
   53:10.01-6).    Amino acid residues in the FRs that can be modified include portions that directly
   bind to an antigen via non-covalent bonds (Amit et al., Science (1986) 233: 747-53), portions
   that influence or have an effect on the CDR structure (Chothia et al., J. Mol. Biol. (1987) 196:
 5 901-17), and portions involved in VH-VL interactions (EP 239400).
             When the antibodies of the present invention are chimeric antibodies or humanized
   antibodies, the C regions of these antibodies are preferably derived from human antibodies.     For
   example, Cyl, Cy2, Cy3, and Cy4 can be used for the H chain, while CK and C can be used for
   the L chain.    Moreover, if required, amino acid mutations may be introduced into the human
 0 antibody C region to enhance or lower the binding to Fcy receptor or FcRn or to improve
   antibody stability or productivity.   A chimeric antibody of the present invention preferably
   includes a variable region of an antibody derived from a nonhuman mammal and a constant
   region derived from a human antibody.       Meanwhile, a humanized antibody preferably includes
   CDRs of an antibody derived from a nonhuman mammal and FRs and C regions derived from a
 5 human antibody.      The constant regions derived from human antibodies preferably include an
   FcRn-binding region.      Such antibodies include, for example, IgGs (IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and
   IgG4).    The constant regions used for the humanized antibodies of the present invention may be
   constant regions of antibodies of any isotype.    A constant region of human IgG is preferably
   used, though it is not limited thereto.   The FRs derived from a human antibody, which are used
 0 for the humanized antibodies, are not particularly limited either, and may be derived from an
   antibody of any isotype.
             The variable and constant regions of chimeric and humanized antibodies of the present
   invention may be modified by deletion, substitution, insertion, and/or addition, and such, so long
   as the binding specificity of the original antibodies is exhibited.
25           Since the immunogenicity in the human body is lowered, chimeric and humanized
   antibodies using human-derived sequences are thought to be useful when administered to
   humans for therapeutic purposes or such.
             The antibodies of the present invention may be prepared by any method. For example,
   antibodies whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is originally greater than or comparable to
30 that at pH 7.4 may be artificially modified through histidine substitution described above or the
   like so that their antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 becomes lower than that at pH 7.4.
   Alternatively, antibodies whose antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 is lower than that at pH 7.4
   may be selected by screening a number of antibodies obtained from an antibody library or
   hybridomas as described below.
35           When histidine is substituted for amino acids in an antibody, known sequences may be
   used for the H chain or L chain amino acid sequence of the antibody before introduction of

                                                       40
   histidine mutations, or amino acid sequences of antibodies newly obtained by methods known to
   those skilled in the art can also be used.     For example, the antibodies may be obtained from an
   antibody library, or they may be obtained by cloning genes encoding antibodies from
   hybridomas producing monoclonal antibodies.
 5           Regarding antibody libraries, many antibody libraries are already known, and methods
   for producing antibody libraries are also known; therefore, those skilled in the art can
   appropriately obtain antibody libraries.      For example, regarding antibody phage libraries, one
   can refer to the literature such as Clackson et al., Nature 1991, 352: 624-8; Marks et al., J. Mol.
   Biol. 1991, 222: 581-97; Waterhouses et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 1993, 21: 2265-6; Griffiths et
 0 al., EMBO J. 1994, 13: 324.0-60; Vaughan et al., Nature Biotechnology 1996, 14: 309-14; and
   Japanese Patent Kohyo Publication No. (JP-A) H20-504970 (unexamined Japanese national
   phase publication corresponding to a non-Japanese international publication).       In addition, it is
   possible to use known methods, such as methods using eukaryotic cells as libraries (WO
   95/15393) and ribosome display methods.          Furthermore, technologies to obtain human
 5 antibodies by panning using human antibody libraries are also known.        For example, variable
   regions of human antibodies can be expressed on the surface of phages as single chain antibodies
   (scFvs) using phage display methods, and phages that bind to antigens can be selected.        Genetic
   analysis of the selected phages can determine the DNA sequences encoding the variable regions
   of human antibodies that bind to the antigens.       Once the DNA sequences of scFvs that bind to
 0 the antigens is revealed, suitable expression vectors can be produced based on these sequences to
   obtain human antibodies.      These methods are already well known, and one can refer to WO
   92/01047, WO 92/20791, WO 93/06213, WO 93/11236, WO 93/19172, WO 95/01438, and WO
   95/15388.
             As for methods for obtaining genes encoding antibodies from hybridomas, known
25 technologies may be basically used, which involve the use of desired antigens or cells expressing
   the desired antigens as sensitizing antigens, using these to perform immunizations according to
   conventional immunization methods, fusing the resulting immune cells with known parent cells
   by conventional cell fusion methods, screening monoclonal antibody producing cells
   (hybridomas) by conventional screening methods, synthesizing cDNAs of antibody variable
30 regions (V regions) from mRNAs of the obtained hybridomas using reverse transcriptase, and
   linking them with DNAs encoding the desired antibody constant regions (C regions).
             More specifically, sensitizing antigens to obtain the above-described antibody genes
   encoding the H chains and L chains include both complete antigens with immunogenicity and
   incomplete antigens including haptens and the like with no antigenicity; however they are not
35 limited to these examples.     For example, it is possible to use whole proteins and partial peptides
   of proteins of interest.   In addition, it is known that substances comprising polysaccharides,

                                                     41
   nucleic acids, lipids, and such can be antigens.    Thus, the antigens of the antibodies of the
   present invention are not particularly limited.   The antigens can be prepared by methods known
   to those skilled in the art, for example, by baculovirus-based methods (for example, WO
   98/46777) and such.      Hybridomas can be produced, for example, by the method of Milstein et
 5 al. (G. Kohler and C. Milstein, Methods Enzymol. 1981, 73: 3-46) and such.         When the
   immunogenicity of an antigen is low, immunization may be performed after linking the antigen
   with a macromolecule having immunogenicity, such as albumin.          Alternatively, if necessary,
   antigens may be converted into soluble antigens by linking them with other molecules.        When
   transmembrane molecules such as membrane antigens (for example, receptors) are used as
 0 antigens, portions of the extracellular regions of the membrane antigens can be used as a
   fragment, or cells expressing transmembrane molecules on their cell surface may be used as
   immunogens.
             Antibody-producing cells can be obtained by immunizing animals using appropriate
   sensitizing antigens described above.     Alternatively, antibody-producing cells can be prepared
 5 by in vitro immunization of lymphocytes that can produce antibodies.        Various mammals can
   be used for immunization; such commonly used animals include rodents, lagomorphas, and
   primates.    Such animals include, for example, rodents such as mice, rats, and hamsters;
   lagomorphas such as rabbits; and primates including monkeys such as cynomolgus monkeys,
   rhesus monkeys, baboons, and chimpanzees.        In addition, transgenic animals carrying human
 0 antibody gene repertoires are also known, and human antibodies can be obtained by using these
   animals (see WO 96/34096; Mendez et al., Nat. Genet. 1997, 15: 146-56).         Instead of using
   such transgenic animals, for example, desired human antibodies having binding activity against
   antigens can be obtained by in vitro sensitization of human lymphocytes with desired antigens or
   cells expressing the desired antigens, and then fusing the sensitized lymphocytes with human
25 myeloma cells such as U266 (see Japanese Patent Application Kokoku Publication No. (JP-B)
   HO1-59878 (examined, approved Japanese patent application published for opposition)).
   Furthermore, desired human antibodies can be obtained by immunizing transgenic animals
   carrying a complete repertoire of human antibody genes, with desired antigens (see WO
   93/12227, WO 92/03918, WO 94/02602, WO 96/34096, and WO 96/33735).
30           Animal immunization can be carried out by appropriately diluting and suspending a
   sensitizing antigen in phosphate buffered saline (PBS), physiological saline, or such, and mixing
   it with an adjuvant to emulsify, if necessary.   This is then intraperitoneally or subcutaneously
   injected into animals.    Then, the sensitizing antigen mixed with Freund's incomplete adjuvant is
   preferably administered several times every four to 21 days.      Antibody production can be
35 confirmed by measuring the titer of the antibody of interest in animal sera using conventional
   methods.

                                                       42
            Antibody-producing cells obtained from lymphocytes or animals immunized with a
   desired antigen can be fused with myeloma cells to generate hybridomas using conventional
   fusing agents (for example, polyethylene glycol) (Goding, Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles
   and Practice, Academic Press, 1986, 59-103).         When required, hybridoma cells can be cultured
 5 and grown, and the binding specificity of the antibody produced from these hybridomas can be
   measured using known analysis methods, such as immunoprecipitation, radioimmunoassay
   (RIA), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).             Thereafter, hybridomas producing
   antibodies of interest whose specificity, affinity, or activity has been determined can be
   subcloned by methods such as limiting dilution.
 0          Next, genes encoding the selected antibodies can be cloned from hybridomas or
   antibody-producing cells (sensitized lymphocytes, and such) using probes that can specifically
   bind to the antibodies (for example, oligonucleotides complementary to sequences encoding the
   antibody constant regions).     It is also possible to clone the genes from mRNA using RT-PCR.
   Immunoglobulins are classified into five different classes, IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM.      These
 5 classes are further divided into several subclasses (isotypes) (for example, IgG-1, IgG-2, IgG-3,
   and IgG-4; IgA-1 and IgA-2; and such).        H chains and L chains used in the present invention to
   produce antibodies are not particularly limited and may originate from antibodies belonging to
   any of these classes or subclasses; however, IgG is particularly preferred.
            Herein, it is possible to modify H-chain-encoding genes and L-chain-encoding genes
 0 using genetic engineering technologies.       Genetically modified antibodies, such as chimeric
   antibodies and humanized antibodies, which have been artificially modified for the purpose of
   decreasing heterologous immunogenicity and such against humans, can be appropriately
   produced for antibodies such as mouse antibodies, rat antibodies, rabbit antibodies, hamster
   antibodies, sheep antibodies, and camel antibodies.        Chimeric antibodies are antibodies
25 including H chain and L chain variable regions of nonhuman mammal antibody, such as mouse
   antibody, and the H chain and L chain constant regions of human antibody.          Chimeric
   antibodies can be obtained by ligating a DNA encoding a variable region of a mouse antibody to
   a DNA encoding a constant region of a human antibody, inserting this into an expression vector,
   and introducing the vector into a host to produce the antibody.      A humanized antibody, which is
30 also called a reshaped human antibody, can be synthesized by PCR using several
   oligonucleotides produced so that they have overlapping portions at the ends of DNA sequences
   designed to link the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of an antibody of a nonhuman
   mammal such as a mouse.        The resulting DNA can be ligated to a DNA encoding a human
   antibody constant region.     The ligated DNA can be inserted into an expression vector, and the
35 vector can be introduced into a host to produce the antibody (see EP 239400 and WO 96/02576).
   Human antibody FRs that are ligated via the CDR are selected when the CDR forms a favorable

                                                       43
   antigen-binding site.     If necessary, amino acids in the framework region of an antibody variable
   region may be substituted such that the CDR of the reshaped human antibody forms an
   appropriate antigen-binding site (K. Sato et al., Cancer Res. 1993, 53: 10.01-10.06).
             In addition to the humanization described above, antibodies may be modified to
 5 improve their biological properties, for example, the binding to the antigen.      In the present
   invention, such modifications can be achieved by methods such as site-directed mutagenesis (see
   for example, Kunkel (1910.0) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 488), PCR mutagenesis, and
   cassette mutagenesis.      In general, mutant antibodies whose biological properties have been
   improved show amino acid sequence homology and/or similarity of 70% or higher, more
 0 preferably 80% or higher, and even more preferably 90% or higher (for example, 95% or higher,
   97%, 98%, or 99%), when compared to the amino acid sequence of the original antibody
   variable region.     Herein, sequence homology and/or similarity is defined as the ratio of amino
   acid residues that are homologous (same residue) or similar (amino acid residues classified into
   the same group based on the general properties of amino acid side chains) to the original
 5 antibody residues, after the sequence homology value has been maximized by sequence
   alignment and gap introduction, if necessary.       In general, natural amino acid residues are
   classified into groups based on the characteristics of their side chains as follows:
     (1) hydrophobic: alanine, isoleucine, valine, methionine, and leucine;
     (2) neutral hydrophilic: asparagine, glutamine, cysteine, threonine, and serine;
 0   (3) acidic: aspartic acid and glutamic acid;
     (4) basic: arginine, histidine, and lysine;
     (5) residues that affect the orientation of the chain: glycine, and proline; and
     (6) aromatic: tyrosine, tryptophan, and phenylalanine.
             In general, a total of six complementarity determining regions (CDRs; hypervariable
25 regions) present on the H chain and L chain variable regions interact with each other to form an
   antigen-binding site of an antibody.      A variable region alone is also known to be capable of
   recognizing and binding to an antigen, although its affinity is lower than the affinity of the whole
   binding site.    Thus, antibody genes encoding the H chain and L chain of the present invention
   may encode fragments each including the H chain or L chain antigen-binding site, as long as the
30 polypeptide encoded by the gene retains the activity of binding to the desired antigen.
             As described above, the heavy chain variable region is in general constituted by three
   CDRs and four FRs.        In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, amino acid residues
   to be "modified" can be appropriately selected from amino acid residues, for example, in a CDR
   or FR.     In general, modifications of amino acid residues in the CDRs may reduce the
35 antigen-binding ability.      Thus, appropriate amino acid residues to be "modified" in the present
   invention are preferably selected from amino acid residues in the FRs, but are not limited thereto.

                                                      44
   It is possible to select amino acids in a CDR as long as the modification has been confirmed not
   to reduce the binding ability.    Alternatively, by using public databases or such, those skilled in
   the art can obtain appropriate sequences that can be used as an FR of antibody variable region of
   an organism such as human or mouse.
 5           Furthermore, the present invention provides genes encoding the antibodies of the
   present invention.     The genes encoding the antibodies of the present invention may be any
   genes, and may be DNAs, RNAs, nucleic acid analogs, or the like.
             Furthermore, the present invention also provides host cells carrying the genes described
   above.     The host cells are not particularly limited and include, for example, E. coli and various
 0 animal cells.    The host cells may be used, for example, as a production system to produce and
   express the antibodies of the present invention.     In vitro and in vivo production systems are
   available for polypeptide production systems.       Such in vitro production systems include, for
   example, production systems using eukaryotic cells or prokaryotic cells.
             Eukaryotic cells that can be used as host cells include, for example, animal cells, plant
 5 cells, and fungal cells.   Animal cells include: mammalian cells, for example, CHO (J. Exp. Med.
   (1995) 108: 94.0), COS, HEK293, 3T3, myeloma, BHK (baby hamster kidney), HeLa, and Vero;
   amphibian cells such as Xenopus laevis oocytes (Valle et al., Nature (1981) 291: 338-340); and
   insect cells such as Sf9, Sf21, and Tn5.      CHO-DG44, CHO-DX1IB, COS7 cells, HEK293 cells,
   and BHK cells are preferably used to express the antibodies of the present invention.       Among
 0 animal cells, CHO cells are particularly preferable for large-scale expression.     Vectors can be
   introduced into host cells, for example, by calcium phosphate methods, DEAE-dextran methods,
   methods using cationic liposome DOTAP (Boehringer-Mannheim), electroporation methods, and
   lipofection methods.
             Regarding plant cells, for example, Nicotiana tabacum-derived cells and duckweed
25 (Lemna minor) are known as a protein production system.          Calluses can be cultured from these
   cells to produce the antibodies of the present invention.     Regarding fungal cells, known protein
   expression systems are those using yeast cells, for example, cells of genus Saccharomyces (such
   as Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomycespombe); and cells of filamentous fungi, for
   example, genus Aspergillus (such as Aspergillus niger).        These cells can be used as a host to
30 produce the antibodies of the present invention.
             Bacterial cells can be used in the prokaryotic production systems.      Regarding bacterial
   cells, production systems using Bacillus subtilis are known in addition to the production systems
   using E. coli described above.     Such systems can be used in producing the antibodies of the
   present invention.
35
   <Screening methods>

                                                      45
             The present invention provides methods of screening for antigen-binding molecules
   whose antigen-binding activity at acidic pH is lower than that at neutral pH.       The present
   invention also provides methods of screening for antigen-binding molecules which can
   individually bind to multiple antigens.     The present invention also provides methods of
 5 screening for antigen-binding molecules which are superior in the retention in plasma.        The
   present invention also provides methods of screening for an antigen-binding molecule that
   dissociates within a cell from an extracellularly-bound antigen.       The present invention also
   provides methods of screening for an antigen-binding molecule that is bound to an antigen and
   internalized into a cell, and released to the outside of the cell in an antigen-free form.   The
 0 present invention also provides methods of screening for an antigen-binding molecule that has
   increased ability to eliminate antigens in plasma.     Furthermore, the present invention also
   provides methods of screening for antigen-binding molecules which are particularly useful when
   used as pharmaceutical compositions.
             Specifically, the present invention provides methods of screening for antigen-binding
 5 molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) determining the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH
   10.0;
   (b) determining the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   and
 0 (c) selecting an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   greater than the antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5.
             In the screening methods of the present invention, the antigen-binding activity of the
   antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is not particularly limited, as long as it is an
   antigen-binding activity at a pH between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0.         However, for example, a
25 preferred antigen-binding activity is an antigen-binding activity at a pH between pH 7.0 and pH
   8.0, and a more preferred antigen-binding activity is an antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4.
   Further, the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is not
   particularly limited, as long as it is an antigen-binding activity at a pH between pH 4.0 and pH
   6.5.   However, for example, a preferred antigen-binding activity is an antigen-binding activity
30 at a pH between pH 5.5 to pH 6.5, and a more preferred antigen-binding activity is an
   antigen-binding activity at pH 5.8 or pH 5.5.
             The antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule can be determined by
   methods known to those skilled in the art.      Conditions other than the pH can be appropriately
   determined by those skilled in the art.     The antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding
35 molecule can be assessed as dissociation constant (KD), apparent dissociation constant (apparent
   KD), dissociation rate (kd), apparent dissociation rate (apparent kd), or such.     These constants

                                                     46
   can be determined by methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, using Biacore (GE
   healthcare), Scatchard plot, or FACS.
             Herein, "the step of selecting an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding
   activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5" has a same meaning as "the
 5 step of selecting an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5
   is lower than that at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0".
             The difference between the antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 and that at pH
   4.0 to pH 6.5 is not particularly limited as long as the antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH
   10.0 is greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5.   However, the antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to
 0 pH 10.0 is preferably twice or greater, more preferably ten times or greater, and still more
   preferably 40 times or greater than the antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5.
             Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen under a condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0;
 5 (b) placing the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen of (a) under a condition of pH
   4.0 to pH 6.5; and
   (c) obtaining the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5.
             In addition, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
 0 antigen-binding molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) selecting an antigen-binding molecule that does not bind to an antigen under a condition of
   pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (b) binding the antigen-binding molecule selected in (a) to an antigen under a condition of pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0; and
25 (c) obtaining the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen under the condition of pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0.
             Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen under a condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0;
30 (b) placing the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen of (a) under a condition of pH
   4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (c) obtaining the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5;
   (d) amplifying the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated; and
35 (e) obtaining the eluted antigen-binding molecule.

                                                      47
              The steps of (a) to (d) may be repeated twice or more times.    Thus, the present
   invention provides the methods described above further including a step of repeating the steps of
   (a) to (d) twice or more times.     The number for repeating the steps of (a) to (d) is not
   particularly limited; however, the number is in general ten or less.
 5            Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) selecting an antigen-binding molecule that does not bind to an antigen under a condition of
   pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (b) binding the antigen-binding molecule selected in (a) to an antigen under a condition of pH
 0 6.7 to pH 10.0;
   (c) obtaining the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen under the condition of pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0;
   (d) amplifying the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated; and
   (e) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule.
 5            The steps of (a) to (d) may be repeated twice or more times.    Thus, the present
   invention provides the methods described above further including a step of repeating the steps of
   (a) to (d) twice or more times.     The number for repeating the steps of (a) to (d) is not
   particularly limited; however, the number is in general ten or less.
              When a phage library or such is used in the screening methods of the present invention,
 0 the step of amplifying the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule can also be a step of
   amplifying phages.
              In the methods of the present invention, binding of the antigen-binding molecule and the
   antigen may be carried out under any state, without particular limitation.     For example, binding
   of the antigen-binding molecule and the antigen may be carried out by contacting an antigen with
25 an immobilized antigen-binding molecule, or by contacting an antigen-binding molecule with an
   immobilized antigen.       Alternatively, binding of the antigen-binding molecule and the antigen
   may be carried out by contacting the antigen and antigen-binding molecule in a solution.
              Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules whose binding activity at a first pH is greater than that at a second pH,
30 which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen-immobilized column under the condition
   of a first pH;
   (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule that had bound to the column at the first pH from the
   column under the condition of a second pH; and
35 (c) obtaining the eluted antigen-binding molecule.

                                                      48
             Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules whose binding activity at a first pH is smaller than that at a second
   pH, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) passing an antigen-binding molecule through an antigen-immobilized column under the
 5 condition of a first pH;
   (b) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that eluted without binding to the column in step (a);
   (c) binding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (b) to a column under the condition of a
   second pH; and
   (d) obtaining the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the column in step (c).
 0           Furthermore, the present invention also provides methods of screening for
   antigen-binding molecules whose binding activity at a first pH is greater than that at a second pH,
   which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule library to an antigen-immobilized column under the
   condition of a first pH;
 5 (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule from the column under the condition of a second pH;
   (c) amplifying the gene encoding the eluted antigen-binding molecule; and
   (d) obtaining the eluted antigen-binding molecule.
             The steps of (a) to (c) may be repeated twice or more times.      Thus, the present
   invention provides the methods described above further including the step of repeating the steps
 0 of (a) to (c) twice or more times.    The number for repeating the steps of (a) to (c) is not
   particularly limited; however, the number is in general ten or less.
             In the present invention, each of the first and second pHs may be any pH, as long as
   they are not identical.   In a preferred combination of the first and second pHs, for example, the
   first pH is between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0, and the second pH is between pH 4.0 and pH 6.5; in a
25 more preferred combination, the first pH is between pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, and the second pH is
   between pH 5.5 and pH 6.5; and in a still more preferred combination, the first pH is pH 7.4 and
   the second pH is pH 5.8 or pH5.5.
            In another preferred combination of the first and second pHs, for example, the first pH is
   between pH 4.0 and pH 6.5, and the second pH is between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0; in a more
30 preferred combination, the first pH is between pH 5.5 and pH 6.5, and the second pH is between
   pH 7.0 and pH 8.0; and in a still more preferred combination, the first pH is pH 5.8 or pH5.5 and
   the second pH is pH 7.4.
             Antigen-binding molecules that are screened by the methods of the present invention
   may be any antigen-binding molecules.        For example, it is possible to use the above-described
35 antigen-binding molecules in the screening of the present invention.       For example, it is possible
   to screen antigen-binding molecules including natural sequences or antigen-binding molecules

                                                      49
   including amino acid sequences with substitutions.       Preferred antigen-binding molecules that
   are screened in the present invention include, for example, antigen-binding molecules in which at
   least one amino acid is substituted with histidine or at least one histidine is inserted.   The site of
   introduction of histidine substitution or insertion is not particularly limited, and may be
 5 introduced at any site.    Furthermore, histidine substitution or insertion may be introduced at one
   site, or may be introduced at two or more sites.     Furthermore, preferred antigen-binding
   molecules that are screened in the present invention include, for example, antigen-binding
   molecules including modified antibody constant regions.
             Antigen-binding molecules that are screened by the methods of the present invention
 0 may be a number of different antigen-binding molecules introduced with histidine substitutions
   or insertions at different sites, for example, by histidine scanning.
             Thus, the screening methods of the present invention may further comprise the step of
   substituting at least one amino acid in the antigen-binding molecule with histidine or inserting at
   least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
 5           In the screening methods of the present invention, non-natural amino acids may be used
   instead of histidine.    Therefore, the present invention can also be understood by replacing the
   above-mentioned histidine with non-natural amino acids.
             Moreover, the screening methods of the present invention may further comprise the step
   of modifying amino acids of antibody constant regions.
 0           Antigen-binding substances that are screened by the screening methods of the present
   invention may be prepared by any method.         For example, it is possible to use pre-existing
   antibodies, pre-existing libraries (phage libraries and the like), antibodies and libraries that are
   prepared from hybridomas obtained by immunizing animals or from B cells of immunized
   animals, antibodies and libraries (libraries with high content of histidine or non-natural amino
25 acid, libraries introduced with histidine or non-natural amino acid at specific sites, and the like)
   prepared by introducing histidine mutations or non-natural amino acid mutations into the
   above-described antibodies and libraries, and so on.
             Antigen-binding molecules that bind to the antigen multiple times, which are thus
   superior in the retention in plasma, can be obtained by the screening methods of the present
30 invention.     Thus, the screening methods of the present invention can be used as screening
   methods for obtaining antigen-binding molecules that are superior in the retention in plasma.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that can bind to the antigen two or more times
   when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys can be obtained by the
   screening methods of the present invention.       Thus, the screening methods of the present
35 invention can be used as screening methods for obtaining antigen-binding molecules that can
   bind to the antigen two or more times.

                                                      50
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that are capable of binding to more antigens as
   compared to the number of their antigen-binding sites when administered to animals such as
   humans, mice, or monkeys can be obtained by the screening methods of the present invention.
   Thus, the screening methods of the present invention can be used as screening methods for
 5 obtaining antigen-binding molecules that are capable of binding to more antigens as compared to
   the number of their antigen-binding sites.     For example, when the antibody is a neutralizing
   antibody, the screening methods of the present invention can be used as screening methods for
   obtaining antigen-binding molecules that can neutralize more antigens as compared to the
   number of the antigen-binding sites of the antigen-binding molecules.
 0           Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that are capable of dissociating within a cell
   from an extracellularly-bound antigen when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or
   monkeys can be obtained by the screening methods of the present invention.          Thus, the
   screening methods of the present invention can be used as screening methods for obtaining
   antigen-binding molecules that are capable of dissociating within a cell from an
 5 extracellularly-bound antigen.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that are bound to an antigen and internalized
   into a cell, and released to the outside of the cell in an antigen-free form when administered to
   animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys can be obtained by the screening methods of the
   present invention.     Thus, the screening methods of the present invention can be used as
 0 screening methods for obtaining antigen-binding molecules that are bound to an antigen and
   internalized into a cell, and released to the outside of the cell in an antigen-free form.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that can rapidly eliminate antigens in plasma
   when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys can be obtained by the
   screening methods of the present invention.       Thus, the screening methods of the present
25 invention can be used as screening methods for obtaining antigen-binding molecules with
   increased (high) ability to eliminate antigens in plasma.
             Furthermore, such antigen-binding molecules are expected to be especially superior as
   pharmaceuticals, because the dose and frequency of administration in patients can be reduced
   and as a result the total dosage can be reduced.      Thus, the screening methods of the present
30 invention can be used as methods of screening for antigen-binding molecules for use as
   pharmaceutical compositions.
             In addition, the present invention provides libraries in which the histidine content is
   increased as compared to the original libraries.     Libraries containing antigen-binding molecules
   with increased histidine content can be used in the screening methods described above and the
35 production methods described hereinafter.

                                                       51
             Libraries with increased histidine content can be prepared by methods known to those
   skilled in the art, which include the following method.      20 types of triplet codons
   (trinucleotides) encoding 20 types of amino acids can be incorporated at equal frequency when
   synthesizing nucleic acids to prepare a library by the trinucleotide-method (J Mol Biol. 2008 Feb
 5 29; 376(4): 1182-200).      As a result, the position mutated for the library can be made to contain
   20 types of amino acids at equal probability.      The frequency of histidine in the position mutated
   for the library can be increased by increasing the proportion of a histidine-encoding trinucleotide
   as compared to the remaining amino acids among the 20 types in the synthesis.
 0 <Methods for producing antigen-binding molecules>
             The present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding molecules whose
   antigen-binding activity at the endosomal pH is lower than that at the plasma pH.       The present
   invention also provides methods for producing antigen-binding molecules that are superior in
   the retention in plasma.    The present invention also provides methods for producing
 5 antigen-binding molecules that are especially useful when used as pharmaceutical compositions.
             Specifically, the present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding
   molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) determining the antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH
   10.0;
 0 (b) determining the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (c) selecting an antigen-binding molecule whose antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule selected in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d).
25           The present invention also provides methods for producing antigen-binding molecules,
   which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0;
   (b) allowing the antigen-binding molecule bound to the antigen of (a) to stand under the
   condition of pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
30 (c) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule obtained in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d).
             Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding
35 molecules, which comprise the steps of:

                                                     52
   (a) selecting an antigen-binding molecule that does not bind to the antigen under the condition of
   pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (b) binding the antigen under the condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 to the antigen-binding molecule
   selected in (a);
 5 (c) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen under the condition of pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d).
             In addition, the present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding
 0 molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule to an antigen under the condition of pH 6.7 to 10.0;
   (b) allowing the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen in (a) to stand under the
   condition of pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (c) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that dissociated under the condition of pH 4.0 to pH
 5 6.5;
   (d) amplifying the gene encoding the dissociated antigen-binding molecule;
   (e) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (f) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (e); and
   (g) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (f).
 0           Steps (a) to (d) may be repeated twice or more times.    Thus, the present invention
   provides the methods described above, which further comprise the step of repeating steps (a) to
   (d) twice or more times.     The number of times steps (a) to (d) is repeated is not particularly
   limited; however, it is generally ten times or less.
             Furthermore, the present invention provides methods of screening for antigen-binding
25 molecules, which comprise the steps of:
   (a) selecting an antigen-binding molecule that does not bind to the antigen under the condition of
   pH 4.0 to pH 6.5;
   (b) binding the antigen under the condition of pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 to the antigen-binding molecule
   selected in (a);
30 (c) collecting the antigen-binding molecule that bound to the antigen under the condition of pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0;
   (d) amplifying the gene encoding the dissociated antigen-binding molecule;
   (e) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (f) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (e); and
35 (g) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (f).

                                                     53
             Steps (a) to (d) may be repeated twice or more times.     Thus, the present invention
   provides the methods described above, which further comprise the step of repeating steps (a) to
   (d) twice or more times.     The number of times steps (a) to (d) is repeated is not particularly
   limited; however, it is generally ten times or less.
 5           Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding
   molecules whose binding activity at a first pH is greater than that at a second pH, which
   comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding the antigen-binding molecule to a column immobilized with antigen under the first
   pH condition;
 0 (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule, which is bound to the column under the first pH
   condition from the column under a second pH condition;
   (c) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (d) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (c); and
   (e) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (d).
 5           Furthermore, the present invention provides methods for producing antigen-binding
   molecules whose binding activity at a first pH is greater than that at a second pH, which
   comprise the steps of:
   (a) binding an antigen-binding molecule library to a column immobilized with antigen under the
   first pH condition;
 0 (b) eluting the antigen-binding molecule from the column under the second pH condition;
   (c) amplifying the gene encoding the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (d) collecting the eluted antigen-binding molecule;
   (e) obtaining the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule collected in (d); and
   (f) producing the antigen-binding molecule using the gene obtained in (e).
25           Steps (a) to (c) may be repeated twice or more times.     Thus, the present invention
   provides the methods described above, which further comprise the step of repeating steps (a) to
   (c) twice or more times.    The number of times steps (a) to (c) is repeated is not particularly
   limited; however, it is generally ten times or less.
             When a phage library or such is used in the production methods of the present invention,
30 the step of amplifying the gene encoding the antigen-binding molecule may be the step of
   amplifying phages.
             Antigen-binding substances that are used in the production methods of the present
   invention may be prepared by any method.        For example, it is possible to use pre-existing
   antibodies, pre-existing libraries (phage libraries and the like), antibodies and libraries that are
35 prepared from hybridomas obtained by immunizing animals or from B cells of immunized
   animals, antibodies and libraries (libraries with high content of histidine or non-natural amino

                                                      54
   acid, libraries introduced with histidine or non-natural amino acid at specific sites, and the like)
   prepared by introducing histidine mutations or non-natural amino acid mutations into the
   above-described antibodies and libraries, and so on.
             In the above-described production methods, the antigen-binding activity of the
 5 antigen-binding molecule at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is not particularly limited, as long as the
   antigen-binding activity is that at a pH between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0.       A preferred
   antigen-binding activity is that at a pH between pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, and a more preferred
   antigen-binding activity is that at pH 7.4.    Alternatively, the antigen-binding activity of the
   antigen-binding molecule at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is not particularly limited, as long as the
 0 antigen-binding activity is that at a pH between pH 4.0 and pH 6.5.       A preferred
   antigen-binding activity is that at a pH between pH 5.5 to pH 6.5, and a more preferred
   antigen-binding activity is that at pH 5.8 or pH 5.5.
             The antigen-binding activity of an antigen-binding molecule can be determined by
   methods known to those skilled in the art.      Conditions except for pH can be appropriately
 5 determined by those skilled in the art.
             The step of selecting antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH
   6.7 to pH 10.0 is greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is synonymous with the step of selecting
   antigen-binding molecules whose antigen-binding activity at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5 is lower than that
   at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0.
 0           The difference in the antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 and at pH 4.0 to pH
   6.5 is not particularly limited as long as the antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5.    The antigen-binding activity at pH 6.7 to pH 10.0 is
   preferably twice or greater, more preferably ten times or greater, and still more preferably 40
   times or greater than that at pH 4.0 to pH 6.5.
25           In the production methods described above, the antigen-binding molecule may be bound
   to the antigen under any condition, and the condition is not particularly limited.    For example,
   the antigen-binding molecule may be bound to the antigen by contacting the antigen with the
   immobilized antigen-binding molecule, or by contacting the antigen-binding molecule with the
   immobilized antigen.      Alternatively, the antigen-binding molecule may be bound to the antigen
30 by contacting the antigen and antigen-binding molecule in a solution.
             In the production methods described above, each of the first and second pHs may be any
   pH, as long as they are not identical.    In a preferred combination of the first and second pHs, for
   example, the first pH is between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0, and the second pH is between pH 4.0 and
   pH 6.5; in a more preferred combination, the first pH is between pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, and the
35 second pH is between pH 5.5 and pH 6.5; and in a still more preferred combination, the first pH
   is pH 7.4 and the second pH is pH 5.8 or pH 5.5.

                                                     55
             In another preferred combination of the first and second pHs, for example, the first pH
   is between pH 4.0 and pH 6.5, and the second pH is between pH 6.7 and pH 10.0; in a more
   preferred combination, the first pH is between pH 5.5 and pH 6.5, and the second pH is between
   pH 7.0 and pH 8.0; and in a still more preferred combination, the first pH is pH 5.8 or pH 5.5
 5 and the second pH is pH 7.4.
             Antigen-binding molecules that are produced by the production methods described
   above may be any antigen-binding molecules.        Preferred antigen-binding molecules include, for
   example, antigen-binding molecules in which at least one amino acid is substituted with histidine
   or at least one histidine has been inserted.   The site where such histidine mutation is introduced
 0 is not particularly limited and may be introduced at any site.   Furthermore, histidine mutation
   may be introduced at one site or at two or more sites.
             Thus, the production methods of the present invention may further comprise the step of
   substituting at least one amino acid in an antigen-binding molecule with histidine or inserting at
   least one histidine into antigen-binding molecules.
 5           In the production methods of the present invention, non-natural amino acids may be
   used instead of histidine.    Therefore, the present invention can also be understood by replacing
   the above-mentioned histidine with non-natural amino acids.
             Furthermore, in another embodiment, the antigen-binding molecules that are produced
   by the production methods described above include, for example, antigen-binding molecules
 0 including modified antibody constant regions.      Accordingly, the production methods of the
   present invention may further comprise the step of modifying the amino acids of antibody
   constant regions.
             The antigen-binding molecules that are produced by the production methods of the
   present invention are superior in the retention in plasma.    Thus, the production methods of the
25 present invention can be used as methods for producing antigen-binding molecules that are
   superior in the retention in plasma.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules produced by the production methods are
   expected to be capable of binding to the antigen two or more times when administered to animals
   such as humans, mice, or monkeys.       Thus, the production methods of the present invention can
30 be used as methods for producing antigen-binding molecules that are capable of binding to the
   antigen two or more times.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules produced by the production methods of the
   present invention are expected to be capable of binding to more antigens as compared to the
   number of their antigen-binding sites when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or
35 monkeys.      Thus, the production methods of the present invention can be used as methods for

                                                     56
   producing antigen-binding molecules that are capable of binding to more antigens as compared
   to the number of their antigen-binding sites.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules produced by the production methods of the
   present invention are expected to be capable of dissociating within a cell from an
 5 extracellularly-bound antigen when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys.
   Thus, the production methods of the present invention can be used as methods for producing
   antigen-binding molecules that are capable of dissociating within a cell from an
   extracellularly-bound antigen.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules produced by the production methods of the
 0 present invention are expected to be capable of being bound to an antigen and internalized into a
   cell as well as being released to the outside of the cell in an antigen-free form, when
   administered to animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys.         Thus, the production methods of
   the present invention can be used as methods for producing antigen-binding molecules that are
   capable of being bound to an antigen and internalized into a cell and being released to the outside
 5 of the cell in an antigen-free form.
             Furthermore, antigen-binding molecules that are produced by the production methods of
   the present invention are expected to be capable of rapidly eliminating antigens from plasma
   when administered to animals such as humans, mice, or monkeys.           Thus, the production
   methods of the present invention can be used as method for producing antigen-binding molecules
 0 with increased (high) ability to eliminate antigens in plasma.
             Furthermore, such antigen-binding molecules can reduce the number of doses in
   patients and are expected to be especially superior as pharmaceuticals.      Thus, the production
   methods of the present invention can be used as methods for producing antigen-binding
   molecules for used as pharmaceutical compositions.
25           Genes obtained by the production methods of the present invention are typically carried
   by (inserted into) appropriate vectors, and then introduced into host cells.    The vectors are not
   particularly limited as long as they stably retain the inserted nucleic acids.   For example, when
   Escherichiacoli (E. coli) is used as the host, preferred cloning vectors include pBluescript vector
   (Stratagene); however, various commercially available vectors may be used.          When using
30 vectors to produce the antigen-binding molecules of the present invention, expression vectors are
   particularly useful.   The expression vectors are not particularly limited as long as the vectors
   express the antigen-binding molecules in vitro, in E. coli, in culture cells, or in a body of an
   organism.     For example, pBEST vector (Promega) is preferred for in vitro expression; pET
   vector (Invitrogen) is preferred for E. coli; pME18S-FL3 vector (GenBank Accession No.
35 AB009864) is preferred for culture cells; and pME18S vector (Mol Cell Biol. 8:466-472 (1988))
   is preferred for bodies of organisms.    DNAs of the present invention can be inserted into the

                                                     57
   vectors by conventional methods, for example, by ligation using restriction enzyme sites
   (Current protocols in Molecular Biology, edit. Ausubel et al., (1987) Publish. John Wiley &
   Sons, Section 11.4-11.11).
             The above host cells are not particularly limited, and various host cells may be used
 5 depending on the purpose.       Examples of cells for expressing the antigen-binding molecules
   include bacterial cells (such as those of Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, E. coli, Streptomyces,
   and Bacillus subtilis), eukaryotic cells (such as those of yeast and Aspergillus), insect cells (such
   as DrosophilaS2 and Spodoptera SF9), animal cells (such as CHO, COS, HeLa, C127, 3T3,
   BHK, HEK293, and Bowes melanoma cells), and plant cells.           Vectors can be introduced into a
 0 host cell by known methods, for example, calcium phosphate precipitation methods,
   electroporation methods (Current protocols in Molecular Biology edit. Ausubel et al. (1987)
   Publish. John Wiley & Sons, Section 9.1-9.9), lipofection methods, and microinjection methods.
             The host cells can be cultured by known methods.      For example, when using animal
   cells as a host, DMEM, MEM, RPMI 1640, or IMDM may be used as the culture medium.
 5 They may be used with serum supplements such as FBS or fetal calf serum (FCS).           The cells
   may be cultured in serum-free cultures.     The preferred pH is about 6 to 8 during the course of
   culturing.   Incubation is carried out typically at 30 to 40'C for about 15 to 200 hours.    Medium
   is exchanged, aerated, or agitated, as necessary.
             Appropriate secretion signals may be incorporated to polypeptides of interest so that the
 0 antigen-binding molecules expressed in the host cell are secreted into the lumen of the
   endoplasmic reticulum, into the periplasmic space, or into the extracellular environment.
   These signals may be endogenous to the antigen-binding molecules of interest or may be
   heterologous signals.
             On the other hand, for example, production systems using animals or plants may be
25 used as systems for producing polypeptides in vivo.      A polynucleotide of interest is introduced
   into an animal or plant and the polypeptide is produced in the body of the animal or plant, and
   then collected.   The "hosts" of the present invention include such animals and plants.
             The production system using animals include those using mammals or insects.         It is
   possible to use mammals such as goats, pigs, sheep, mice, and bovines (Vicki Glaser
30 SPECTRUM Biotechnology Applications (1993)).             The mammals may be transgenic animals.
             For example, a polynucleotide encoding an antigen-binding molecule of the present
   invention is prepared as a fusion gene with a gene encoding a polypeptide specifically produced
   in milk, such as the goat P-casein.   Next, goat embryos are injected with polynucleotide
   fragments containing the fusion gene, and then transplanted to female goats.       Desired
35 antigen-binding molecules can be obtained from milk produced by the transgenic goats, which
   are born from the goats that received the embryos, or from their offspring.     Hormones may be

                                                       58
   administered as appropriate to increase the volume of milk containing the antigen-binding
   molecule produced by the transgenic goats (Ebert et al., Bio/Technology (1994) 12: 699-702).
              Insects such as silkworms may be used to produce the antigen-binding molecules of the
   present invention.      When silkworms are used, baculoviruses carrying a polynucleotide encoding
 5 an antigen-binding molecule of interest can be used to infect silkworms, and the antigen-binding
   molecule of interest can be obtained from their body fluids.
              Furthermore, when plants are used to produce the antigen-binding molecules of the
   present invention, for example, tobacco may be used.         When tobacco is used, a polynucleotide
   encoding an antigen-binding molecule of interest is inserted into a plant expression vector, for
 0 example, pMON 530, and then the vector is introduced into bacteria, such as Agrobacterium
   tumefaciens.      The bacteria are then allowed to infect tobacco such as Nicotiana tabacum, and
   the desired antigen-binding molecules can be collected from their leaves (Ma et al., Eur. J.
   Immunol. (1994) 24: 131-138).        Alternatively, it is possible to infect duckweed (Lemna minor)
   with similar bacteria.    After cloning, the desired antigen-binding molecules can be obtained
 5 from the duckweed cells (Cox KM et al., Nat. Biotechnol. 2006 Dec; 24(12):1591-1597).
              The thus obtained antigen-binding molecules may be isolated from the inside or outside
   (such as the medium and milk) of host cells, and purified as substantially pure and homogenous
   antigen-binding molecules.       The methods for isolating and purifying antigen-binding molecules
   are not particularly limited, and isolation and purification methods usually used for polypeptide
 0 purification can be used.      Antigen-binding molecules may be isolated and purified, by
   appropriately selecting and combining, for example, chromatographic columns, filtration,
   ultrafiltration, salting out, solvent precipitation, solvent extraction, distillation,
   immunoprecipitation, SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing, dialysis, and
   recrystallization.
25            Chromatography includes, for example, affinity chromatography, ion exchange
   chromatography, hydrophobic chromatography, gel filtration, reverse-phase chromatography,
   and adsorption chromatography (Strategies for Protein Purification and Characterization: A
   Laboratory Course Manual. Ed Daniel R. Marshak et al., (1996) Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
   Press).     Such chromatographic methods can be conducted using liquid phase chromatography
30 such as HPLC and FPLC.          Columns used for affinity chromatography include, protein A
   columns and protein G columns.         Columns using protein A include, for example, Hyper D,
   POROS, and Sepharose F. F. (Pharmacia).
              If needed, an antigen-binding molecule can be modified arbitrarily, and peptides can be
   partially deleted by allowing an appropriate protein modification enzyme to act before or after
35 purification of the antigen-binding molecule.       Such protein modification enzymes include, for
   example, trypsin, chymotrypsin, lysyl endopeptidases, protein kinases, and glucosidases.

                                                     59
   <Anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies>
            Furthermore, the present invention provides the anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies of (a) to
   (m) below:
 5 (a) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region including an amino acid sequence, in
   which at least one of Tyr at position 27, Asp at position 31, Asp at position 32, Trp at position 35,
   Tyr at position 51, Asn at position 59, Ser at position 63, Met at position 106, and Tyr at position
   108 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region) has been substituted
   with His;
 0 (b) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region (H3pI) having an amino acid
   sequence, in which Tyr at position 27, Asp at position 31, and Trp at position 35 in the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region) have been substituted with His;
   (c) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence, in
   which Tyr at position 27, Asp at position 31, Asp at position 32, Trp at position 35, Asn at
 5 position 59, Ser at position 63, and Tyr at position 108 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
   NO: 1 (H53 variable region) have been substituted with His;
   (d) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region (H 170) having an amino acid
   sequence, in which Tyr at position 27, Asp at position 31, Asp at position 32, Trp at position 35,
   Asn at position 59, Ser at position 63, and Tyr at position 108 have been substituted with His,
 0 and in which Ser at position 99 has been substituted with Val and Thr at position 103 has been
   substituted with Ile in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region);
   (e) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence, in
   which Asp at position 31, Tyr at position 51, Ser at position 63, Met at position 106, and Tyr at
   position 108 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region) have been
25 substituted with His;
   (f) an antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region (CLH5) having an amino acid
   sequence, in which Asp at position 31, Tyr at position 51, Ser at position 63, Met at position 106,
   and Tyr at position 108 have been substituted with His, and in which Ser at position 99 has been
   substituted with Phe and Thr at position 103 has been substituted with Ile in the amino acid
30 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region);
   (g) an antibody that includes a light chain variable region having an amino acid sequence, in
   which at least one of Asp at position 28, Tyr at position 32, Glu at position 53, Ser at position 56,
   and Asn at position 92 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (PF1L variable region) has
   been substituted with His;

                                                     60
   (h) an antibody that includes a light chain variable region (L73) having an amino acid sequence,
   in which Asp at position 28, Tyr at position 32, and Glu at position 53 in the amino acid
   sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (PF1L variable region) have been substituted with His;
   (i) an antibody that includes a light chain variable region (L82) having an amino acid sequence,
 5 in which Tyr at position 32 and Glu at position 53 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1
   (H53 variable region) have been substituted with His;
   (j) an antibody that includes a light chain variable region (CLL5) having an amino acid sequence,
   in which Tyr at position 32, Glu at position 53, Ser at position 56, and Asn at position 92 in the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (PF1L variable region) have been substituted with His;
 0 (k) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region of (b) and the light chain variable
   region of (h);
   (1) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region of (d) and the light chain variable
   region of (i); and
   (m) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region of (f) and the light chain variable
 5 region of (h).
             Specific examples of the heavy chain variable region having an amino acid sequence in
   which at least one of Tyr at position 27, Asp at position 31, Asp at position 32, Trp at position 35,
   Tyr at position 51, Asn at position 59, Ser at position 63, Met at position 106, and Tyr at position
   108 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (H53 variable region) has been substituted
 0 with His include, for example, the following heavy chain variable regions.
      a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 (H3pI)
      a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 (H 170)
      a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 5 (CLH5)
             Specific examples of the light chain variable region having an amino acid sequence in
25 which at least one of Asp at position 28, Tyr at position 32, Glu at position 53, Ser at position 56,
   and Asn at position 92 in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 (PF1L variable region) has
   been substituted with His include, for example, the following light chain variable regions.
      a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 6 (L73)
      a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 (L82)
30    a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 (CLL5)
             The amino acid positions and substitutions in each of the above-described antibodies
   H3pI, H170, CLH5, L73, L82, and CLL5 are shown below in Table 1. The amino acid
   positions are shown based on the Kabat numbering.
35 [Table 1]

                                                    61
      position 27   31  32 33 35 50 58 61        62 63     64 65  95 99 1008 102
        H3iI    H   H        H H                         I
       H170     H    H   H   H   H       H        H                V    I           H
       CLH5          H       H       H            H                F    I    H      H
      position 24   27 28 32 53 55 56 90 92 94
        L73              H H H H
        L82                  H H H
       CLL5                  H H H H              H
   *  In WT, the H chain has histidine at position 33, while the L chain has histidine at position 55.
              The present invention provides antibodies comprising at least any one of the amino acid
 5 substitutions described above in (a) to (), and methods for producing the antibodies.     Thus, the
   antibodies of the present invention also include antibodies comprising not only any of the amino
   acid substitutions described above in (a) to 0) but also amino acid substitution(s) other than those
   described above in (a) to 0).    Amino acid substitutions other than those described above in (a)
   to () include, for example, substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion in the amino acid
 0 sequence of CDRs and FRs.
              Furthermore, the present invention provides the anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies of (1) to
   (28) below:
   (1) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region (VH 1 -IgG 1 variable region) having
   the amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 119 in SEQ ID NO: 21 (VH1-IgG 1);
 5 (2) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region (VH2-IgG1 variable region) having
   the amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 119 in SEQ ID NO: 22 (VH2-IgG 1);
   (3) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region (VH3-IgG1 variable region) having
   the amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 119 in SEQ ID NO: 23 (VH3-IgG 1);
   (4) an antibody that includes the heavy chain variable region (VH4-IgG1 variable region) having
20 the amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 119 in SEQ ID NO: 24 (VH4-IgG 1);
   (5) an antibody that includes the light chain variable region (VL1-CK variable region) having the
   amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 107 in SEQ ID NO: 25 (VL1-CK);
   (6) an antibody that includes the light chain variable region (VL2-CK variable region) having the
   amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 107 in SEQ ID NO: 26 (VL2-CK);
25 (7) an antibody that includes the light chain variable region (VL3-CK variable region) having the
   amino acid sequence from positions 1 to 107 in SEQ ID NO: 27 (VL3-CK);
   (8) an antibody (Fvl-IgG1) that includes the heavy chain variable region of (2) and the light
   chain variable region of (6);
   (9) an antibody (Fv2-IgG1) that includes the heavy chain variable region of (1) and a light chain
30 variable region having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 (L82);

                                                    62
   (10) an antibody (Fv3-IgG1) that includes the heavy chain variable region of (4) and the light
   chain variable region of (5);
   (11) an antibody (Fv4-IgG1) that includes the heavy chain variable region of (3) and the light
   chain variable region of (7);
 5 (12) an antibody (VH3-IgG2AGK) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NO: 33;
   (13) an antibody (VH3-M58) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 34;
   (14) an antibody (VH3-M73) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
 0 SEQ ID NO: 35;
   (15) an antibody (Fv4-IgG2AGK) that includes the heavy chain of (12) and a light chain having
   the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 27 (VL3-CK);
   (16) an antibody (Fv4-M58) that includes the heavy chain of (13) and a light chain having the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 27 (VL3-CK);
 5 (17) an antibody (Fv4-M73) that includes the heavy chain of (14) and a light chain having the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 27 (VL3-CK);
   (18) an antibody (VH2-M71) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 36 (VH2-M71);
   (19) an antibody (VH2-M73) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
 0 SEQ ID NO: 37 (VH2-M73);
   (20) an antibody (VH4-M71) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 38 (VH4-M71);
   (21) an antibody (VH4-M73) that includes a heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 39 (VH4-M73);
25 (22) an antibody (Fv 1-M7 1) that includes the heavy chain of (18) and a light chain having the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 26 (VL2-CK);
   (23) an antibody (Fv1-M73) that includes the heavy chain of (19) and a light chain having the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 26 (VL2-CK);
   (24) an antibody (Fv3-M71) that includes the heavy chain of (20) and a light chain having the
30 amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25 (VL1-CK);
   (25) an antibody (Fv3-M73) that includes the heavy chain of (21) and a light chain having the
   amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25 (VL1-CK);
   (26) an antibody that includes a light chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25
   (VL 1-CK);
35 (27) an antibody that includes a light chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 26
   (VL2-CK); and

                                                     63
   (28) an antibody that includes a light chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 27
   (VL3-CK).
              Furthermore, the present invention provides the FRs and CDRs of (a) to (v) below:
   (a) the heavy chain CDR1 of SEQ ID NO: 40 (VH1, 2, 3, 4);
 5 (b) the heavy chain CDR2 of SEQ ID NO: 41 (VH1, 2);
   (c) the heavy chain CDR2 of SEQ ID NO: 42 (VH3);
   (d) the heavy chain CDR2 of SEQ ID NO: 43 (VH4);
   (e) the heavy chain CDR3 of SEQ ID NO: 44 (VH1, 2);
   (f) the heavy chain CDR3 of SEQ ID NO: 45 (VH3, 4);
 0 (g) the heavy chain FRI of SEQ ID NO: 46 (VH1, 2);
   (h) the heavy chain FRI of SEQ ID NO: 47 (VH3, 4):
   (i) the heavy chain FR2 of SEQ ID NO: 48 (VH1, 2, 3, 4);
   (j) the heavy chain FR3 of SEQ ID NO: 49 (VH 1);
   (k) the heavy chain FR3 of SEQ ID NO: 50 (VH2);
 5 (1)the heavy chain FR3 of SEQ ID NO: 51 (VH3, 4);
   (m) the heavy chain FR4 of SEQ ID NO: 52 (VH1, 2, 3, 4);
   (n) the light chain CDR1 of SEQ ID NO: 53 (VL1, 2);
   (o) the light chain CDR1 of SEQ ID NO: 54 (VL3);
   (p) the light chain CDR2 of SEQ ID NO: 55 (VL1, VL3);
 0 (q) the light chain CDR2 of SEQ ID NO: 56 (VL2);
   (r) the light chain CDR3 of SEQ ID NO: 57 (VL1, 2, 3);
   (s) the light chain FRI of SEQ ID NO: 58 (VL1, 2, 3);
   (t) the light chain FR2 of SEQ ID NO: 59 (VL1, 2, 3);
   (u) the light chain FR3 of SEQ ID NO: 60 (VL1, 2, 3); and
25 (v) the light chain FR4 of SEQ ID NO: 61 (VL1, 2, 3).
              The respective sequences of the above (a) to (v) are shown in Fig. 25. Furthermore,
   the present invention provides polypeptides including any one of the FRs and CDRs of the above
   (a) to (v).
              The anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies of the present invention also include fragments and
30 modified products of antibodies including any of the amino acid substitutions described above.
   Such antibody fragments include, for example, Fab, F(ab')2, Fv, single chain Fv (scFv) in which
   Fv of H and L chains are linked together via an appropriate linker, single domain H chain and
   single domain L chain (for example, Nat. Biotechnol. 2005 Sep;23(9):1126-36), Unibody (WO
   2007059782 Al), and SMIP (WO 2007014278 A2).              The origin of antibodies is not particularly
35 limited.    The antibodies include human, mouse, rat, and rabbit antibodies.     The antibodies of
   the present invention may also be chimeric, humanized, fully humanized antibodies, or such.

                                                     64
             Specifically, such antibody fragments are obtained by treating antibodies with enzymes,
   for example, papain or pepsin, or by constructing genes that encode such antibody fragments,
   inserting them into expression vectors, and then expressing them in appropriate host cells (see,
   for example, Co, M.S. et al., J. Immunol. (1994) 152, 2968-2976; Better, M. & Horwitz, A. H.
 5 Methods in Enzymology (1989) 178, 476-496; Plueckthun, A. & Skerra, A. Methods in
   Enzymology (1989) 178, 497-515; Lamoyi, E., Methods in Enzymology (1989) 121, 652-663;
   Rousseaux, J. et al., Methods in Enzymology (1989) 121, 663-66; Bird, R. E. et al., TIBTECH
   (1991) 9, 132-137).
             The present invention provides methods of producing (i) a polypeptide of the present
 0 invention, or (ii) a polypeptide encoded by a gene encoding the polypeptide of the present
   invention, wherein the methods comprise the step of culturing a host cell comprising a vector
   into which a polynucleotide encoding the polypeptide of the present invention is introduced.
             More specifically, the present invention provides methods of producing a polypeptide of
   the present invention, which comprise the steps of:
 5 (a) culturing a host cell comprising a vector into which a gene encoding the polypeptide of the
   present invention is introduced; and
   (b) obtaining the polypeptide encoded by the gene.
             scFv is obtained by linking the V regions of antibody H and L chains.     In such scFv,
   the H chain V region is linked to the L chain V region via a linker, preferably a peptide linker
 0 (Huston, J. S. et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. (1988) 10.0, 5879-5883).     The H chain and L
   chain V regions in an scFv may be derived from any of the antibodies described above.        The
   peptide linker to link the V regions includes, for example, arbitrary single chain peptides of 12 to
   19 amino acid residues.
             When an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody of the present invention includes a constant region,
25 the constant region may be of any type, for example, IgGI, IgG2, or IgG4 may be used.         The
   constant region is preferably a human antibody constant region.     Alternatively, the constant
   region may be a modified form including substitution, deletion, addition, and/or insertion in the
   amino acid sequence of human IgGI, human IgG2, or human IgG4 constant regions.
             Preferred IL-6 receptor to which an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody of the present invention
30 binds is human IL-6 receptor.
             The anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies of the present invention are superior in the retention in
   plasma, and they exist for a prolonged period in the plasma in a form capable of binding to the
   antigen, i.e., soluble or membrane-associated IL-6 receptors.     Thus, the anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies bind in vivo to soluble or membrane-associated IL-6 receptors for a prolonged period.
35 Furthermore, the anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies are capable of binding to IL-6 receptors twice or
   more times, and thus assumed to be able to neutralize three or more IL-6 receptors.

                                                       65
   <Pharmaceutical compositions>
            The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions that include
   antigen-binding molecules of the present invention, antigen-binding molecules isolated by the
 5 screening methods of the present invention, or antigen-binding molecules produced by the
   production methods of the present invention.        The antigen-binding molecules of the present
   invention and antigen-binding molecules produced by the production methods of the present
   invention are superior in the retention in plasma, and thus, expected to reduce the administration
   frequency of the antigen-binding molecules, and are therefore useful as pharmaceutical
 0 compositions.     The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may include
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.
            In the present invention, pharmaceutical compositions ordinarily refer to agents for
   treating or preventing, or testing and diagnosing diseases.
            The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be formulated by
 5 methods known to those skilled in the art.      For example, they can be used parenterally, in the
   form of injections of sterile solutions or suspensions including water or other pharmaceutically
   acceptable liquid.   For example, such compositions may be formulated by mixing in the form of
   unit dose required in the generally approved medicine manufacturing practice by appropriately
   combining with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or media, specifically with sterile water,
 0 physiological saline, vegetable oil, emulsifier, suspension, surfactant, stabilizer, flavoring agent,
   excipient, vehicle, preservative, binder, or such.     In such formulations, the amount of active
   ingredient is adjusted to obtain an appropriate amount in a pre-determined range.
             Sterile compositions for injection can be formulated using vehicles such as distilled
   water for injection, according to standard formulation practice.
25          Aqueous solutions for injection include, for example, physiological saline and isotonic
   solutions containing dextrose or other adjuvants (for example, D-sorbitol, D-mannose,
   D-mannitol, and sodium chloride).      It is also possible to use in combination appropriate
   solubilizers, for example, alcohols (ethanol and such), polyalcohols (propylene glycol,
   polyethylene glycol, and such), non-ionic surfactants (polysorbate 80(TM), HCO-50, and such).
30          Oils include sesame oil and soybean oils.       Benzyl benzoate and/or benzyl alcohol can
   be used in combination as solubilizers.     It is also possible to combine buffers (for example,
   phosphate buffer and sodium acetate buffer), soothing agents (for example, procaine
   hydrochloride), stabilizers (for example, benzyl alcohol and phenol), and/or antioxidants.
   Appropriate ampules are filled with the prepared injections.
35          The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are preferably administered
   parenterally. For example, the compositions may be in the dosage form for injections,

                                                     66
   transnasal administration, transpulmonary administration, or transdermal administration. For
   example, they can be administered systemically or locally by intravenous injection,
   intramuscular injection, intraperitoneal injection, subcutaneous injection, or such.
             Administration methods can be appropriately selected in consideration of the patient's
 5 age and symptoms. The dose of a pharmaceutical composition containing an antigen-binding
   molecule may be, for example, from 0.0001 to 1000 mg/kg for each administration.
   Alternatively, the dose may be, for example, from 0.00 1 to 100,000 mg per patient. However,
   the present invention is not limited by the numeric values described above. The doses and
   administration methods vary depending on the patient's weight, age, symptoms, and such.
 0 Those skilled in the art can set appropriate doses and administration methods in consideration of
   the factors described above.
             Amino acids contained in the amino acid sequences of the present invention may be
   post-translationally modified. For example, the modification of an N-terminal glutamine (Gln)
   residue into a pyroglutamic acid (pGlu) residue by pyroglutamylation is well-known to those
 5 skilled in the art. Naturally, such post-translationally modified amino acids are included in the
   amino acid sequences in the present invention.
             All prior art documents cited in the specification are incorporated herein by reference.
             The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting at
   least in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include
 0 the "comprising", other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each statement can
   also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted in
   similar manner.
             In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
 5 providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such
   documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the
   common general knowledge in the art.
,0 Examples
             Herein below, the present invention will be specifically described with reference to
   Examples, but it is not to be construed as being limited thereto.
   [Example 1] Production of Modified Humanized PM 1 Antibody
35 Preparation of Recombinant Soluble Human IL-6 Receptor (SR344)
             A recombinant human IL-6 receptor of the human IL-6 receptor, which served an
   antigen, was prepared as described below. A CHO cell line that constantly expresses a soluble
   human IL-6 receptor (hereinafter referred to as SR344) (Yamasaki, et al., Science 1988; 241:
   825-828 (GenBank #X12830)) consisting of the amino acid sequence from the 1st amino acid to
40 the 344th amino acid on the N-terminal side as reported in J. Biochem., 108, 673-676 (1990),
   was produced.
             SR344 was purified from culture supernatant obtained from the SR344-expressing CHO
   cells using three column chromatographies: Blue Sepharose 6 FF column chromatography,
   affinity chromatography using a column in which an antibody specific to SR344 is immobilized,
45 and gel filtration column chromatography. The fraction that eluted as the main peak was used
   as the final purified product.

                                                    67
   Preparation of Recombinant Cynomolgus Monkey Soluble IL-6 Receptor (cIL-6R)
            Oligo DNA primers Rhe6Rfl (SEQ ID NO: 16) and Rhe6Rr2 (SEQ ID NO: 17) were
   produced based on the publicly-available rhesus monkey IL-6 receptor gene sequence (Birney et
 5 al., Ensemble 2006, Nucleic Acids Res., 2006, Jan. 1; 34 (Database issue): D556-61).    Using
   cDNA prepared from cynomolgus pancreas as a template, a DNA fragment encoding the entire
   length of cynomolgus monkey IL-6 receptor gene was prepared by PCR using primers Rhe6Rfl
   and Rhe6Rr2.      Using the resulting DNA fragment as a template, a 1131 bp DNA fragment
   (SEQ ID NO: 20) encoding a protein in which 6xHis is added to the C terminal of the soluble
 0 region (Metl-Pro363) containing a signal region of cynomolgus monkey IL-6 receptor gene, was
   amplified by PCR using the oligo DNA primers CynoIL6R N-EcoRI (SEQ ID NO: 18) and
   CynoIL6R C-NotI-His (SEQ ID NO: 19).          The resulting DNA fragment was digested with
   EcoRI and NotI and inserted into a mammalian cell expression vector, and this was then used to
   produce a stable expression CHO line (cyno.sIL-6R-producing CHO cells).
 5          A culture medium of cyno.sIL-6R-producing CHO cells was purified with a HisTrap
   column (GE Healthcare Biosciences), concentrated using Amicon Ultra-15 Ultracel- 10k
   (Millipore), and further purified with a Superdex 200 pg 16/60 gel filtration column (GE
   Healthcare Biosciences) to obtain the final purified product of soluble cynomolgus monkey IL-6
   receptor (hereinafter referred to as cIL-6R).
 0
   Preparation of Recombinant Cynomolgus Monkey IL-6 (cIL-6)
            Cynomolgus monkey IL-6 was prepared as follows.        A nucleotide sequence encoding
   the 212 amino acids registered under SWISSPROT Accession No. P79341 was produced, cloned
   into a mammalian cell expression vector, and introduced into CHO cells to produce a stable
25 expression cell line (cyno.IL-6-producing CHO cells).     A culture medium of
   cyno.IL-6-producing CHO cells was purified with an SP-Sepharose/FF column (GE Healthcare
   Biosciences), concentrated using Amicon Ultra-15 Ultracel-5k (Millipore), and then further
   purified with a Superdex 75 pg 26/60 gel filtration column (GE Healthcare Biosciences).    This
   was concentrated using Amicon Ultra-15 Ultracel-5k (Millipore) to obtain a final purified
30 product of cynomolgus monkey IL-6 (hereinafter referred to as cIL-6).
   Establishment of Human gpl30-Expressing BaF3 Cell Line
            A BaF3 cell line expressing human gp130 was established as indicated below in order to
   obtain a cell line exhibiting IL-6-dependent growth.
35          Full-length human gp130 cDNA (Hibi et al., Cell 1990; 63: 1149-1157 (GenBank
   #NM_002184)) was amplified by PCR and cloned into the expression vector pCOS2Zeo, which
   was prepared by removing the DHFR gene expression site from pCHOI (Hirata, et al., FEBS

                                                      68
   Letter 1994; 356: 244-248) and inserting a Zeocin resistance gene expression site, to construct
   pCOS2Zeo/gp130.        Full-length human IL-6R cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned into
   pcDNA3.1(+) (Invitrogen) to construct hIL-6R/pcDNA3.1(+).            10 tg ofpCOS2Zeo/gp130 was
   mixed into BaF3 cells (0.8 x 107 cells) suspended in PBS, and pulsed using a Gene Pulser
 5 (Bio-Rad) at a voltage of 0.33 kV and capacitance of 950 pFD.         BaF3 cells having undergone
   gene introduction by electroporation treatment were cultured one whole day and night in
   RPM11640 medium (Invitrogen) containing 0.2 ng/mL of mouse interleukin-3 (Peprotech) and
   10% fetal bovine serum (hereinafter referred to as FBS, HyClone), and then screened by adding
   RPM1l640 medium containing 100 ng/mL of human interleukin-6 (R&D Systems), 100 ng/mL
 0 of human interleukin-6 soluble receptor (R&D Systems) and 10% FBS to establish a human
   gpl30-expressing BaF3 cell line (hereinafter referred to as BaF3/gp130).       Since this
   BaF3/gp 130 proliferates in the presence of human interleukin-6 (R&D Systems) and SR344, it
   can be used to evaluate the growth inhibitory activity (namely, IL-6 receptor-neutralizing
   activity) of anti-IL-6 receptor antibody.
 5
   Production of Humanized Anti-IL-6 Receptor Antibody
             In the context of the instant example and elsewhere herein, the term "wild type" is
   abbreviated as WT, the term "wild type H chain" is abbreviated as H(WT) (amino acid sequence
   of SEQ ID NO: 9), and the term "wild type L chain is abbreviated as L(WT) (amino acid
 0 sequence: SEQ ID NO. 10).        In this context, mutations were introduced into the framework
   sequence and CDR sequence of humanized mouse PM1 antibody described in Cancer Res. 1993,
   Feb. 15; 53(4): 851-6, to produce modified H chains H53 (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 1)
   and PFlH (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 11), and modified L chains L28 (amino acid
   sequence: SEQ ID NO: 12) and PF1L (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 2).              More
25 specifically, the mutants were produced using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit
   (Stratagene) according to the method described in the instructions provided, and the resulting
   plasmid fragments were inserted into a mammalian cell expression vector to produce the desired
   H chain expression vectors and L chain expression vectors.       The nucleotide sequences of the
   obtained expression vectors were determined using conventional methodologies known to
30 persons skilled in the art.
   Expression and Purification of Humanized Anti-IL-6 Receptor Antibody
             The antibodies were expressed by the method described below.        Human embryonic
   kidney cancer-derived HEK293H cell line (Invitrogen) was suspended in DMEM (Invitrogen)
35 supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (Invitrogen).          The cells were plated at 10 ml per
   dish in dishes for adherent cells (10 cm in diameter; CORNING) at a cell density of 5 to 6 x 105

                                                      69
   cells/ml and cultured in a CO 2 incubator (37'C, 5% C0 2 ) for one whole day and night. Then,
   the medium was removed by aspiration, and 6.9 ml of CHO-S-SFM-II medium (Invitrogen) was
   added.    The prepared plasmid was introduced into the cells by the lipofection method.        The
   resulting culture supernatants were collected, centrifuged (approximately 2000 g, 5 min, room
 5 temperature) to remove cells, and sterilized by filtering through 0.22-Im filter MILLEX@-GV
   (Millipore) to obtain the supernatants.    Antibodies were purified from the obtained culture
   supernatants by a method known to those skilled in the art using rProtein A SepharoseTM Fast
   Flow (Amersham Biosciences). To determine the concentration of the purified antibody,
   absorbance was measured at 280 nm using a spectrophotometer. Antibody concentrations were
 0 calculated from the determined values using an absorbance coefficient calculated by the PACE
   method (Protein Science 1995; 4:2411-2423).
   [Example 2] Production of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibody H3pI/L73
   Method for Creating Antibody Capable of Neutralizing Antigen Multiple Times
 5           Since IgG molecules are divalent, a single IgG molecule can neutralize up to two
   antigen molecules when the two sites bind to the antigens; however, it cannot neutralize three or
   more antigen molecules.      Therefore, to maintain the neutralizing effect of a neutralizing
   antibody over a certain period, it is necessary to administer an amount of the antibody equal to or
   greater than the amount of antigen produced during the period.       Thus, there is a limitation on
 0 the extent to which the required dose of antibody can be reduced by improving the
   pharmacokinetics or affinity of antibody.     Therefore, if it were possible to neutralize two or
   more antigen molecules with a single IgG molecule, the same dose could improve the duration of
   neutralizing effect, or alternatively the dose of antibody required to achieve the same duration
   could be reduced.
25           For neutralizing antibodies, there are two types of target antigens: soluble-type antigens,
   which are present in plasma, and membrane-bound antigens, which are expressed on the surface
   of cells.
             When the antigen is a membrane-bound antigen, an administered antibody binds to the
   membrane antigen on the cellular surface, and the antibody is subsequently taken up into
30 endosomes within the cell by internalization together with the membrane antigen bound to the
   antibody.    Then, the antibody which is kept bound to the antigen moves to a lysosome where it
   is degraded by lysosome together with the antigen.      The elimination of antibody from the
   plasma mediated by internalization by membrane antigen is referred to as antigen-dependent
   elimination, and this has been reported for numerous antibody molecules (Drug Discov. Today,
35 2006 Jan; 11(1-2): 81-8). Since a single IgG antibody molecule binds to two antigen molecules

                                                      70
   when it divalently binds to antigens, and is then internalized and directly degraded by lysosome,
   a single ordinary IgG antibody cannot neutralize two or more antigen molecules (Fig. 1).
             The reason for the long retention (slow elimination) of IgG molecules in plasma is that
   FcRn, known as an IgG molecule salvage receptor, functions (Nat. Rev. Immunol. 2007 Sep;
 5 7(9): 715-25).    IgG molecules that have been taken up into endosomes by pinocytosis bind to
   FcRn expressed in endosomes under intraendosomal acidic conditions.            IgG molecules bound to
   FcRn move to the cell surface where they dissociate from FcRn under neutral conditions in
   plasma and return to plasma, while IgG molecules unable to bind to FcRn proceed into
   lysosomes where they are degraded (Fig. 2).
 0           IgG molecules bound to a membrane antigen are taken up into intracellular endosomes
   by internalization, move into lysosomes while bound to the antigen, and undergo degradation.
   When an IgG antibody divalently binds to antigens, it neutralizes two antigen molecules and
   undergoes degradation together with the antigens.      If the IgG antibody, when taken up into
   intracellular endosomes by internalization, can dissociate from the antigen under intraendosomal
 5 acidic conditions, the dissociated antibody may be able to bind to FcRn expressed in the
   endosomes.      The IgG molecule dissociated from the antigen and bound to FcRn is transferred to
   the cell surface and then dissociated from FcRn under neutral conditions in the plasma, thereby
   return to the plasma again.    The IgG molecule that has returned to the plasma is able to bind to
   a new membrane antigen again.       The repetition of this process allows a single IgG molecule to
 0 repeatedly bind to membrane antigens, thereby enabling neutralization of a multiple antigens
   with a single IgG molecule (Fig. 3).
             In the case of a soluble antigen, an antibody administered binds to the antigen in the
   plasma, and remains in the plasma in the form of an antigen-antibody complex.          Normally,
   while the retention of antibody in plasma is very long (elimination rate is very slow) due to the
25 function of FcRn as described above, the retention of antigen in plasma is short (elimination rate
   is fast).  Thus, antibody-bound antigens show retention in plasma comparable to that of
   antibody (elimination rate is very slow).    Antigens are produced in the body at a constant rate
   and, in the absence of antibody, present in plasma at a concentration at which the antigen
   production rate and the antigen elimination rate are under equilibrium.       In the presence of
30 antibody, most of the antigens are bound to antibodies, resulting in the very slow elimination of
   antigens.    Thus, the antigen concentration in plasma increases as compared with that in the
   absence of antibody (Kidney Int. 2003, 64, 697-703; J. National Cancer Institute 2002, 94(19),
   1484-1493; J. Allergy and Clinical Immunology 1997, 100(1), 110-121; Eur. J. Immunol. 1993,
   23; 2026-2029).     Even if the affinity of antibody for antigen is infinite, antigen concentration
35 elevates as antibody is slowly eliminated from the plasma, and the neutralizing effect of antibody
   terminates after the concentrations of antibody and antigen become equal.         Although antibodies

                                                      71
   with a stronger dissociation constant (KD) can neutralize soluble antigens at a lower antibody
   concentration, antibodies at a concentration half or less than the concentration of antigen present
   are unable to neutralize antigens regardless of how strong the affinity of antibody is (Biochem.
   Biophys. Res. Commun. 2005 Sep 9; 334(4): 1004-13).           As is the case with IgG molecules not
 5 bound to antigens, IgG molecules bound to antigens in the plasma are also taken up into
   endosomes by pinocytosis, and bind to FcRn expressed in endosomes under intraendosomal
   acidic conditions.    The IgG molecules bound to FcRn moves to the cell surface while the
   antibody is kept bound to the antigen and then dissociate from the FcRn under neutral conditions
   in the plasma.    Since the IgG molecules return to the plasma while bound to the antigen, they
 0 cannot bind to new antigens in the plasma.      In this case, if IgG molecules can dissociate from
   the antigen under intraendosomal acidic conditions, the dissociated antigen will not be able to
   bind to FcRn and thereby may be degraded by lysosomes.            On the other hand, the IgG
   molecules can return to the plasma again by binding to FcRn.         Since the IgG molecules that
   have returned to the plasma have already dissociated from the antigen in endosomes, they are
 5 able to bind to a new antigen again in the plasma.      The repetition of this process allows a single
   IgG molecule to repeatedly bind to soluble antigens.       This enables a single IgG molecule to
   neutralize multiple antigens (Fig. 4).
             Thus, regardless of whether the antigen is a membrane antigen or soluble antigen, if the
   dissociation of IgG antibody from the antigen is possible under intraendosomal acidic conditions,
 0 a single IgG molecule would be able to repeatedly neutralize antigens.        In order for IgG
   antibodies to dissociate from antigens under intraendosomal acidic conditions, it is necessary that
   antigen-antibody binding be considerably weaker under acidic conditions than under neutral
   conditions.    Since membrane antigens on the cell surface need to be neutralized, antibodies
   have to strongly bind to antigens at the cell surface pH, namely pH 7.4.       Since the
25 intraendosomal pH has been reported to be typically pH 5.5 to 6.0 (Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell. Biol.
   2004 Feb; 5(2): 121-32), an antibody that weakly binds to an antigen at pH 5.5 to 6.0 is
   considered to dissociate from the antigen under intraendosomal acidic conditions.         More
   specifically, a single IgG molecule that strongly binds to an antibody at the cell surface pH of 7.4
   and weakly binds to the antigen at the intraendosomal pH of 5.5 to 6.0 may be able to neutralize
30 a multiple antigens and thereby improve the pharmacokinetics.
             In general, protein-protein interactions consist of hydrophobic interaction, electrostatic
   interaction and hydrogen bonding, and the binding strength is typically expressed as a binding
   constant (affinity) or apparent binding constant (avidity).     pH-dependent binding, whose
   binding strength varies between neutral conditions (pH 7.4) and acidic conditions (pH 5.5 to 6.0),
35 is present in naturally-occurring protein-protein interactions.     For example, the
   above-mentioned binding between IgG molecules and FcRn known as a salvage receptor for IgG

                                                       72
   molecules is strong under acidic conditions (pH 5.5 to 6.0) but remarkably weak under neutral
   conditions (pH 7.4).    Most of such pH-dependently changing protein-protein interactions are
   associated with histidine residues.    Since the pKa of histidine residue is in the vicinity of pH 6.0
   to 6.5, the proton dissociation state of histidine residues varies between neutral conditions (pH
 5 7.4) and acidic conditions (pH 5.5 to 6.0).      Specifically, histidine residues are not charged and
   function as hydrogen atom acceptors under neutral conditions (pH 7.4), while they become
   positively charged and function as hydrogen atom donors under acidic conditions (pH 5.5 to 6.0).
   It has been reported that the pH-dependent binding of the above-described IgG-FcRn interaction
   is also associated with histidine residues present in IgG (Mol. Cell. 2001 Apr; 7(4): 867-77).
 0           Therefore, pH-dependence can be imparted to protein-protein interactions by
   substituting an amino acid residue involved in protein-protein interactions with a histidine
   residue, or by introducing a histidine into an interaction site.      Such attempts have also been
   made in protein-protein interactions between antibodies and antigens, and a mutant antibody
   with antigen-binding ability decreased under acidic conditions has been successfully acquired by
 5 introducing histidine into the CDR sequence of an anti-egg white lysozyme antibody (FEBS
   Letter (vol. 309, No. 1, 85-88, 1992)).      In addition, an antibody that is prepared by introducing
   histidine into its CDR sequence and specifically binds to an antigen at the low pH of cancer
   tissues but weakly binds under neutral conditions has been reported (WO 2003-105757).
             Although methods for introducing pH dependency into antigen-antibody reactions have
 0 been reported as described above, an IgG molecule that neutralizes multiple antigens by strongly
   binding to antigens at the body fluid pH of 7.4 but weakly binding to antigens at the
   intraendosomal pH of pH 5.5 to 6.0 has not been reported.           In other words, there have been no
   reports relating to modifications that significantly reduce the binding under acidic conditions
   while maintaining the binding under neutral conditions such that, as compared to an unmodified
25 antibody, a modified antibody binds to antigens multiple times in vivo and thereby shows
   improved pharmacokinetics as well as improved duration of the neutralizing effect at the same
   dose.
             The IL-6 receptor is present in the body in the form of either soluble IL-6 receptor or
   membrane IL-6 receptor (Nat. Clin. Pract. Rheumatol. 2006 Nov; 2(11): 619-26).              Anti-IL-6
30 receptor antibodies bind to both the soluble IL-6 receptor and membrane IL-6 receptor, and
   neutralize their biological action.   It is considered that, after binding to the membrane IL-6
   receptor, anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies are taken up into intracellular endosomes by
   internalization while bound to the membrane IL-6 receptor, then move into lysosomes while the
   antibodies are kept bound to the membrane IL-6 receptor, and undergo degradation by lysosomes
35 together with the membrane IL-6 receptor.         In fact, it has been reported that a humanized
   anti-IL-6 receptor antibody exhibits non-linear clearance, and its antigen-dependent elimination

                                                    73
   greatly contributes to the elimination of the humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibody (The Journal
   of Rheumatology, 2003, 30; 71426-1435).        Thus, one humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibody
   binds to one or two membrane IL-6 receptors (monovalently or divalently), and is then
   internalized and degraded in lysosomes.      Therefore, if it is possible to produce modified
 5 antibodies that exhibit greatly reduced binding ability under acidic conditions but retain the same
   binding ability as the wild type humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibody under neutral conditions
   (pH-dependent binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibody), multiple IL-6 receptors can be neutralized
   with a single humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibody.      Thus, in comparison with wild type
   humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies, pH-dependent binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies
 0 may improve the duration of the neutralizing effect in vivo at the same dosage.
   Production of pH-Dependently Binding Humanized Anti-IL-6 Receptor Antibody H3pI/L73:
             Introduction of histidine into a CDR has been reported as a method for introducing
   pH-dependent binding to antigen-antibody reaction (FEBS Letter (vol. 309, No. 1, 85-88, 1992)).
 5 In order to find amino acid residues exposed on the surface of the variable region of the
   H53/PF1L produced in Example 1 and possible residues interacting with the antigen, a Fv region
   model of H53/PF1L was created by homology modeling using MOE software (Chemical
   Computing Group Inc.).      A three-dimensional model constructed on the basis of the sequence
   information of H53/PF1L was used to select H27, H31, H35, L28, L32 and L53 (Kabat
 0 numbering, Kabat, E.A. et al., 1991, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, NIH) as
   mutation sites that may introduce pH-dependent antigen-binding by histidine introduction.        The
   product in which the residues at H27, H31 and H35 in H53 produced in Example 1 were
   substituted with histidines was designated as H3pI (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 3), and
   the product in which the residues at L28, L32 and L53 in PF1L produced in Example 1 were
25 substituted with histidines was designated as L73 (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 6).
   Production, Expression and Purification of H3pI/L73 Expression Vector
             Amino acid modification was carried out to produce antibodies modified at the selected
   sites.  Mutations were introduced into H53 (nucleotide sequence: SEQ ID NO: 13) and PF1L
30 (nucleotide sequence: SEQ ID NO: 14) produced in Example 1 to produce H3pI (amino acid
   sequence: SEQ ID NO: 3) and L73 (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 6).              More specifically,
   the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit (Stratagene) was used according to the method
   described in the instructions provided, and the resulting plasmid fragments were inserted into a
   mammalian cell expression vector to produce the desired H chain expression vector and L chain
35 expression vector.    The nucleotide sequences of the resulting expression vectors were
   determined using a method known to persons skilled in the art.        H3pI/L73 which uses H3pI for

                                                    74
   the H chain and L73 for the L chain was expressed and purified by the method described in
   Example 1.
   [Example 3] Conferring pH-Dependent Antigen Binding Ability by His Modification of CDR
 5 Using Phage Display Technology
   Production of scFv Molecule of Humanized PM 1 Antibody
             The humanized PM1 antibody, which is a humanized anti-IL-6R antibody (Cancer Res.
   1993 Feb 15; 53(4): 851-6), was converted into scFv.     The VH and VL regions were amplified
   by PCR, and humanized PM1 HL scFv having the linker sequence GGGGSGGGGSGGGGS
 0 (SEQ ID NO. 15) between VH and VL was produced.
   Selection of Histidine-Introducible Positions by Histidine Scanning
             PCR was performed using the produced humanized PM1 HL scFv DNA as a template to
   produce a histidine library in which any one of the CDR amino acids is replaced with histidine.
 5 The library portions were constructed by PCR using primers in which the codon of an amino
   acid desired to be mutated for the library was replaced with CAT, a codon corresponding to
   histidine, and other portions were constructed by normal PCR.      These portions were then linked
   by assemble PCR.      The constructed library was digested with SfiI, inserted into a phagemide
   vector pELBG lac that was also digested with SfiI, and then used to transform XL1-Blue
 0 (Stratagene).    The resulting colonies were used to evaluate antigen binding by phage ELISA
   and analyze the sequence of HL scFv.      Phage ELISA was carried out using a plate coated with
   SR344 at 1 [g/mL in accordance with J. Mol. Biol. 1992; 227: 381-388.        Clones that were
   found to bind to SR344 were subjected to sequence analysis using specific primers.
             Phage titer was determined by ELISA with an anti-Etag antibody (GE Healthcare) and
25 anti-M13 antibody (GE Healthcare).       This value was then used to select positions where
   substitution of the CDR residue with histidine did not significantly alter the binding ability as
   compared to humanized PM1 HL scFv, based on the results of phage ELISA for SR344.             The
   selected positions are shown in Table 2.    Numbering of each residue was in accordance with the
   Kabat numbering (Kabat, et al., 1991, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, NIH).
30
   [Table 2]    Positions of Histidine Substitution Not Significantly Affecting Binding Ability
   H31, H50, H54, H56, H57, H58, H59, H60, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65, H100a, H100b, H102
   L24, L26, L27, L28, L30, L31, L32, L52, L53, L54, L56, L90, L92, L93, L94
35 Construction of Histidine-Modified CDR Library

                                                      75
             A library was designed in which the amino acids of CDR residues that did not
   significantly alter the binding ability when substituted with histidine as shown in Table 2
   (histidine-introducible positions) are their original sequence (wild type sequence) or histidine.
   The library was constructed based on the sequences of the H chain PF1H and the L chain PF1L
 5 produced in Example 1 such that the mutated positions for the library have the original
   sequences or histidines (either the original sequence or histidines).
             The library portions were constructed by PCR using primers that were designed such
   that a position desired to be mutated for the library has the original amino acid codon or histidine
   codon, and other portions were produced by normal PCR, or by PCR using synthetic primers as
 0 in the library portions.   These portions were then linked by assemble PCR (J. Mol. Biol. 1996;
   256: 77-88).
             This library was used to construct a ribosome display library in accordance with J.
   Immunological Methods 1999; 231: 119-135.           In order to carry out Escherichiacoli cell-free in
   vitro translation, an SDA sequence (ribosome binding site) and T7 promoter were added to the 5'
 5 side, and a gene3 partial sequence serving as a linker for ribosome display was ligated to the 3'
   side using SfiI.
   Acquisition of pH-Dependent Binding scFv from Library by Bead Panning
             In order to concentrate only scFv having the ability to bind to SR344, panning was
 0 carried out twice by the ribosome display method in accordance with Nature Biotechnology 2000
   Dec; 18: 1287-1292.      The prepared SR344 was biotinylated using NHS-PEO4-Biotin (Pierce)
   to obtain an antigen.    Panning was carried out using 40 nM of the biotinylated antigen.
             Using the resulting DNA pool as a template, HL scFv was restored by PCR using
   specific primers.    After digesting with SfiI, the digested HL scFv was inserted into a phagemide
25 vector pELBG lac that was also digested with SfiI, and then used to transform XL1 -Blue
   (Stratagene).
             Escherichiacoli cells carrying the desired plasmid were grown to 0.4 to 0.6 O.D./mL in
   2YT medium containing 100 pg/mL ampicillin and 2% glucose.             A helper phage (M13KO7,
   4.5 x 10" pfu) was added thereto, statically cultured for 30 minutes at 37'C, and then cultured
30 with shaking for 30 minutes at 37'C.     The culture was transferred to a 50 mL Falcon tube,
   centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3000 rpm, resuspended in 2YT medium containing 100 pg/mL
   ampicillin, 25 Vg/mL kanamycin, and 0.5 mM IPTG, and then incubated overnight at 30'C.
             The culture incubated overnight was precipitated with 2.5 M NaCl and 10% PEG, and
   then diluted with PBS to obtain a phage library solution.       10% M-PBS (PBS containing 10%
35 skim milk) and 1 M Tris-HCl were added to the phage library solution to the final concentration
   of 2.5% M-PBS and pH 7.4.        Panning was carried out by a typical panning method using an

                                                    76
   antigen immobilized on magnetic beads (J. Immunol. Methods 2008 Mar 20; 332(1-2): 2-9; J.
   Immunol. Methods 2001 Jan 1; 247(1-2): 191-203; Biotechnol. Prog. 2002 Mar-Apr; 18(2):
   212-20).   More specifically, 40 pmol of biotin-labeled SR344 was added to the prepared phage
   library and the library was contacted with the antigen for 60 minutes at 37 0 C.
 5 Streptavidin-coated beads (Dynal M-280) washed with 5% M-PBS (PBS containing 5% skim
   milk) were added and allowed to bind for 15 minutes at 37'C.      The beads were washed five
   times with both 0.5 ml of PBST (PBS containing 0.1% Tween-20, pH 7.4) and PBS (pH 7.4).
   The beads were then suspended in 1 mL of PBS (pH 5.5) at 37'C, and the phage was recovered
   immediately.     The recovered phage solution was added to 10 mL of logarithmic-growth-phase
 0 XL1-Blue (OD600 of 0.4 to 0.5) and allowed to stand for 30 minutes at 37'C for infection.        The
   infected E. coli were plated onto a 225 mm x 225 mm plate containing 2 YT, 100 [Ig/mL
   ampicillin and 2% glucose.     These E. coli were used to begin additional phage culture in the
   same manner as described above and repeat the panning 8 times.
 5 Evaluation by Phage ELISA
            The above single colonies were inoculated in 100 pL of 2YT, 100 [ig/mL ampicillin,
   2% glucose and 12.5 ig/mL tetracycline and cultured overnight at 30'C.        2 pL of this culture
   was inoculated into 300 pL of 2YT, 100 pg/mL ampicillin and 2% glucose, and then cultured for
   4 hours at 37 0 C.  A helper phage (M13KO7) was added to the culture at 9 x 108 pfu, allowed to
 0 stand for 30 minutes at 37'C and then shaken for 30 minutes at 37'C for infection.
   Subsequently, the medium was replaced with 300 pL of 2 YT, 100 pg/mL ampicillin, 25 pg/mL
   kanamycin, and 0.5 mM IPTG.       After culturing overnight at 30'C, the centrifuged supernatant
   was recovered.     360 pL of 50 mM PBS (pH 7.4) was added to 40 pL of the centrifuged
   supernatant and subjected to ELISA.     A StreptaWell 96-well microtiter plate (Roche) was
25 coated overnight with 100 pL of PBS containing 62.5 ng/mL of biotin-labeled SR344.          After
   removing the antigen by washing with PBST, blocking was carried out with 250 pL of 2%
   BSA-PBS for 1 hour or more.      After removing the 2% BSA-PBS, the prepared culture
   supernatant was added and allowed to stand for 1 hour at 37'C for antibody binding.       After
   washing, 50 mM PBS (pH 7.4) or 50 mM PBS (pH 5.5) was added and incubated by standing for
30 30 minutes at 37 0 C.   After washing, detection was carried out with an HRP-conjugated
   anti-M13 antibody (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) diluted with 2% BSA-PBS and TMB single
   solution (Zymed), followed by the addition of sulfuric acid to stop the reaction, and the
   measurement of absorbance at 450 nm.
            However, no clones exhibiting potent pH-dependent binding ability were obtained by
35 this panning using the antigen immobilized on the magnetic beads.      Clones that were found to
   show weak pH-dependent binding ability were subjected to sequence analysis using specific

                                                     77
   primers.     The positions in these clones where histidine was present at a high rate are shown in
   Table 3.
   [Table 3]     Positions of Histidine Substitution Detected Using Phage Library (Magnetic Bead
 5 Panning)
   H50, H58, H61, H62, H63, H64, H65, H102
   L24,L27,L28,L32,L53,L56,L90,L92,L94
   Acquisition of pH-Dependently Binding scFv from Library by Column Panning
 0           No clones having strong pH-dependent binding ability were obtained by typical panning
   using the magnetic bead-immobilized antigen.        This may be due to the following reasons.    In
   the panning using an antigen immobilized on magnetic beads or a plate, all phages dissociated
   from the magnetic beads or plate under acidic conditions are collected.      Thus, phage clones
   having weak pH dependency recovered together reduce the likelihood that clones having strong
 5 pH dependency are included in the finally concentrated clones.
             Therefore, panning using a column immobilized with an antigen was examined as a
   more stringent panning method (Fig. 5).       There have been no previous reports on the acquisition
   of clones having pH-dependent binding ability by using panning with an antigen-immobilized
   column.     In the panning using an antigen-immobilized column, when phages that have been
 0 bound under neutral conditions are eluted under acidic conditions, clones having weak pH
   dependency rebind to the antigen within the column and are thereby less eluted, allowing
   strongly pH-dependent clones that less rebind within the column to be selectively eluted from the
   column.     In addition, although "all" phages that have dissociated under acidic conditions are
   recovered in the panning using the antigen immobilized on magnetic beads or a plate, the
25 panning using a column immobilized with the antigen enables selective recovery of phages
   having strong pH-dependent binding ability by allowing an acidic buffer to flow through the
   column to begin the elution and recovering only "appropriate fractions".
             First, a column to which the antigen SR344 was immobilized was prepared.         200 VI of
   Streptavidin Sepharose (GE Healthcare) was washed with 1 ml of PBS, suspended in 500 pL of
30 PBS, and contacted with 400 pmol of biotin-labeled SR344 for 1 hour at room temperature.
   Subsequently, an empty column (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) was filled with the above
   sepharose and washed with about 3 mL of PBS.         The above-mentioned PEG-precipitated
   library phages were diluted to 1/25 with 0.5% BSA-PBS (pH 7.4), passed through a 0.45 nm
   filter, and then added to the column.    After washing with about 6 mL of PBS (pH 7.4), 50 mM
35 MES-NaCl (pH5.5) was allowed to flow through the column to elute antibodies that dissociate
   under low pH.      The appropriate eluted fractions were collected, and the recovered phage

                                                    78
   solution was added to 10 mL of logarithmic-growth-phase XL1-Blue (OD600 of 0.4 to 0.5) and
   allowed to stand for 30 minutes at 37'C.
            The infected E. coli were plated onto a 225 mm x 225 mm plate containing 2YT, 100
   ptg/mL ampicillin, and 2% glucose.     These E. coli were used to begin additional phage culture
 5 in the same manner as described above and repeat the panning 6 times.
   Evaluation by Phage ELISA
            The resulting phages were evaluated by phage ELISA.       Clones that were found to have
   strong pH dependency were subjected to sequence analysis using specific primers.       As a result,
 0 several clones showing strong pH-dependent binding as compared to WT were obtained.          As
   shown in Fig. 6, clone CL5 (H chain: CLH5, L chain: CLL5) (CLH5: amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 5, CLL5: amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8) was found to exhibit particularly
   strong pH-dependent binding as compared to WT.        It was thus confirmed that antibodies
   exhibiting strong pH-dependent binding, while being unable to be obtained by typical panning
 5 using the antigen immobilized onto magnetic beads, can be obtained by panning using a column
   immobilized with the antigen.    Therefore, panning using an antigen-immobilized column was
   found to be a highly effective method for obtaining pH-dependently binding antibodies from a
   library.  The amino acid sequences of the clones showing pH-dependent binding were analyzed,
   and the positions where histidine was present at a high probability in the concentrated clones are
 0 shown in Table 4.
   [Table 4]   Positions of Histidine Substitution found by Phage Library (Column Panning)
   H31, H50, H58, H62, H63, H65, H100b, H102
   L24,L27,L28,L32,L53,L56,L90,L92,L94
25
   [Example 4] Expression and Purification of Histidine-Modified Humanized IL-6 Receptor
   Antibody
   Production, Expression and Purification of Expression Vector of Histidine-Modified Humanized
   IL-6 Receptor Antibody
30          In order to convert clones showing strong pH dependency in phage ELISA to IgG, VH
   and VL were respectively amplified by PCR, digested with XhoI/NheI and EcoRI, and inserted
   to a mammalian cell expression vector.     The nucleotide sequence of each DNA fragment was
   determined by a method known to persons skilled in the art.     CLH5/L73, in which CLH5 was
   used for the H chain and L73 obtained in Example 2 was used for the L chain, was expressed and
35 purified as IgG.   Expression and purification were carried out by the method described in
   Example 1.

                                                     79
            Antibody having even higher pH dependency was produced by combining mutation
   sites.  Based on the locations where His was concentrated in the phage library as well as the
   structural information and the like, H32, H58, H62 and H102 in H3pI which was obtained as an
   H chain in Example 2 were substituted with histidine, and H95 and H99 were further substituted
 5 with valine and isoleucine, respectively, to produce H170 (SEQ ID NO: 4).        The variant
   production was carried out using the method described in Example 1.        In addition, L82 (SEQ
   ID NO: 7) was produced by substituting the 28th histidine of L73, which was produced as an L
   chain in Example 2, with aspartic acid.    The variant production was carried out using the
   method described in Example 1.      H170/L82, in which H170 was used for the H chain and L82
 0 was used for the L chain, was expressed and purified as IgG using the method described in
   Example 1.
   [Example 5] Evaluation of IL-6R-Neutralizing Activity of pH-Dependent Binding Antibody
   Evaluation of Human IL-6 Receptor-Neutralizing Activity of Clones Converted to IgG
 5          The IL-6 receptor-neutralizing activity was evaluated for four antibodies: humanized
   PM1 antibody (WT) and H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73 and H170/L82 produced in Examples 2 and 4.
            More specifically, the IL-6 receptor-neutralizing activity was evaluated using
   BaF3/gp130 exhibiting IL-6/IL-6 receptor-dependent growth.         BaF3/gp130 was washed three
   times with RPMI1640 medium containing 10% FBS, then suspended at 5 x 104 cells/mL in
 0 RPMI1640 medium containing 60 ng/mL of human interleukin-6 (Toray), 60 ng/mL of
   recombinant soluble human IL-6 receptor (SR344) and 10% FBS.            50 L of the suspension was
   dispensed into each of the wells of a 96-well plate (Coming).     Next, the purified antibody was
   diluted with RMPI1640 containing 10% FBS, and 50 tl of the antibody was mixed into each
   well.   After culturing for 3 days at 37'C and 5% C0 2 , WST-8 reagent (Cell Counting Kit-8,
25 Dojindo Laboratories) diluted two-fold with PBS was added at 20 pt/well, and then immediately
   measured for absorbance at 450 nm (reference wavelength: 620 nm) using the Sunrise Classic
   (Tecan).    After culturing for 2 hours, absorbance at 450 nm was measured again (reference
   wavelength: 620 nm).      The IL-6 receptor-neutralizing activity was evaluated based on the
   change in absorbance after 2 hours.     As a result, as shown in Fig. 7, H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73 and
30 H170/L82 were shown to have equivalent biological neutralization activity in comparison with
   the humanized PM1 antibody (WT).
   [Example 6] Biacore Analysis of pH-Dependently Binding Antibody
   Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependently Binding Clones to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
35          Kinetic analyses of antigen-antibody reactions at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 were carried out
   using Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) on the four antibodies: humanized PM1 antibody (WT) and

                                                        80
   H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and H170/L82 produced in Examples 2 and 4 (buffer: 10 mM MES (pH
   7.4 or pH 5.8), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20).             Various antibodies were bound onto a
   sensor chip immobilized with recomb-protein A/G (Pierce) by amine coupling.             SR344 adjusted
   to concentrations of 9.8 to 400 nM was injected to the chip as an analyte.       Association and
 5 dissociation of the pH-dependent binding clones to SR344 was observed in real time (Figs. 8 and
   9).   All the measurements were carried out at 37'C.         Association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and
   dissociation rate constants kd (1/s) were calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE
   Healthcare), and dissociation constants KD (M) were calculated on the basis of those values
   (Table 5).    Moreover, the ratio of the affinities at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 were calculated for each
 0 clone to evaluate pH-dependent binding.        All the measurements were carried out at 37'C.
             As a result of calculating the affinity ratio between pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 for each clone,
   the pH-dependent binding (affinity) of H3pI/L73, H170/L82 and CLH5/L73 to SR344 was
   41-fold, 394-fold and 66-fold, respectively, each showing the pH-dependent binding more than
   15 times higher than WT.
 5           Anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies that strongly bind to the antigen at the plasma pH of 7.4
   but weakly bind to the antigen at the intraendosomal pH of 5.5 to 6.0 have not been reported yet.
   In this study, antibodies were obtained that retain the biological neutralization activity equivalent
   to the WT humanized IL-6 receptor antibody and the affinity at pH 7.4, but exhibit the affinity at
   pH 5.8 that has been specifically lowered more than 10 times.
 0
   [Table 5]    Comparison of Binding of pH-Dependently Binding Clones Directed Against SR344
   to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
                              pH7.4                         pH5.8
                   ka(1/Ms)  kd(1/s)   KD(M)    ka(1/Ms)    kd(1/s)   KD(M)   KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4)
       WT          5.1 E+05  1.OE-03   2.1 E-09  7.6 E+05  3.8 E-03  5.OE-09         2.4
       H3pl/L73    5.4E+05   7.4E-04   1.4E-09   1.7E+05   9.7E-03   5.7E-08        41.3
       H170/L82    6.8E+05   1.1 E-03  1.6E-09   2.6E+04   1..7E-02  6.4E-07       393.5
       CLH5/L73    7.1 E+05  7.9 E-04  1.1 E-09  3.8 E+05  2.8 E-02  7.4 E-08       66.1
25 Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependently Binding Clones to Membrane IL-6 Receptor
             Antigen-antibody reactions to membrane IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 were
   observed for the above produced pH-dependent binding clones, using Biacore T100 (GE
   Healthcare).     The binding to membrane IL-6 receptor was evaluated by evaluating the binding
   to the IL-6 receptor immobilized onto a sensor chip.        SR344 was biotinylated according to a
30 method known to persons skilled in the art, and the biotinylated SR344 was immobilized on the
   sensor chip via streptavidin by utilizing the affinity between streptavidin and biotin.      All the
   measurements were carried out at 370 C, and the mobile phase buffer contained 10 mM MES (pH

                                                      81
   5.8), 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween 20.            The pH-dependent binding clones were injected
   therein under the condition of pH 7.4 and allowed to bind to SR344 (injection sample buffer: 10
   mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20), and the pH-dependent dissociation of
   each clone at the mobile phase pH of 5.8 was observed (Fig. 10).
 5          The dissociation rate (kd(1/s)) at pH 5.8 was calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation
   Software (GE Healthcare) by fitting only the dissociation phase at pH 5.8, where 0.5 ptg/mL of
   the sample was bound in 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20, and
   dissociated in 10 mM MES (pH 5.8), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20.                  Similarly, the
   dissociation rate (kd(1/s)) at pH 7.4 was calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE
 0 Healthcare) by fitting only the dissociation phase at pH 7.4, where 0.5 pig/mL of the sample was
   bound in 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20, and dissociated in 10 mM
   MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20.               The pH-dependent dissociation rate
   constant of each clone is shown in Table 6.
 5 [Table 6]   Comparison of Rate Constant of Dissociation of pH-Dependent Binding Clones
   directed against SR344 from Membrane IL-6 Receptor
                          kd(l/s)            kd ratio
                      pH7.4       pH5.8    pH5.8/pH7.4
          WT        4.84E-04 7.15E-04           1.5
       H3pl/L73     3.44E-04 3.78E-03          11.0
       H170/L82     7.70E-04 1.44E-03           1.9
       CLH5/L73     1.04E-03 5.67E-03          5.5
            The highest pH dependency of the dissociation ratio was observed in H3pI/L73
20 followed by CLH5/L73 and H170/L82 in descending order, and each clone demonstrated higher
   pH-dependent dissociation from the membrane IL-6 receptor than WT.              However, the rank of
   pH-dependent association/dissociation was different between the soluble IL-6 receptor and
   membrane IL-6 receptor.       It was revealed that H170/L82, which exhibited the highest
   pH-dependent binding in the analysis of binding to soluble IL-6 receptor, showed the lowest
25 pH-dependent binding in the analysis of binding to the membrane IL-6 receptor.           In general, it
   is known that while IgG molecules monovalently bind to a soluble antigen (affinity), they
   divalently bind to membrane antigens (avidity).       It is suggested that this difference in the
   binding mode between soluble antigens and membrane antigens influenced the pH-dependent
   binding of H170/L82.
30
   [Example 7] Confirmation of Multiple Binding to Antigen by pH-Dependent Binding Antibody

                                                       82
             As described in Example 2, pH-dependent binding antibodies may be able to bind to
   antigens multiple times.     Specifically, a pH-dependent binding antibody that has bound to an
   antigen is non-specifically taken up into endosomes, but dissociated from the soluble antigen
   under the intraendosomal acidic conditions.       The antibody binds to FcRn and thereby returns to
 5 the plasma.     Since the antibody that has returned to the plasma is not bound to antigen, it is able
   to bind to a new antigen again.     The repetition of this process enables pH-dependent binding
   antibodies to bind to antigens multiple times.      However, for IgG antibodies that do not have
   pH-dependent binding ability, not all antigens are dissociated from the antibodies under the
   intraendosomal acidic conditions.      Thus, such antibodies that have been returned to the plasma
 0 by FcRn remain bound to antigen, and therefore cannot bind to new antigens.         Consequently, in
   nearly all cases, each single molecule of IgG antibodies is able to neutralize only two antigens
   (in the case of divalent binding).
             Therefore, it was evaluated whether the three pH-dependently binding antibodies
   (H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and H170/L82) constructed in Examples 2 and 4 were able to bind to the
 5 antigen SR344 multiple times as compared to the humanized PM1 antibody (wild type, WT).
             Biacore (GE Healthcare) was used to evaluate that the antibodies binding at pH 7.4 and
   dissociating at pH 5.8 were able to bind to the antigen multiple times.     The antibody to be
   evaluated was bound to a recomb-protein A/G (Pierce)-immobilized sensor chip by the amine
   coupling method, and a mobile phase of pH 7.4 was allowed to flow (step 1).         SR344 solution
 0 adjusted to pH 7.4 was then allowed to flow as an analyte to bind SR344 to the antibody at pH
   7.4 (step 2).   This binding at pH 7.4 mimics the antigen binding in plasma.       Subsequently,
   buffer adjusted to pH 5.8 alone (not containing SR344) was added as an analyte to expose the
   antigen bound to the antibody to acidic conditions (step 3).     This dissociation at pH 5.8 mimics
   the binding state of antigen-antibody complexes in endosomes.         Subsequently, step 2 was
25 repeated.     This mimics the rebinding of antibody that has been returned to plasma by FcRn to a
   new antigen.     Subsequently, step 2 was repeated to expose the antibody-antigen complex to
   acidic conditions.    Repeating "step 2 to step 3" multiple times at 37 0 C as described above can
   mimic the in vivo state in which antibodies are repeatedly taken up from the plasma into
   endosomes by pinocytosis and returned to the plasma by FcRn (Nat. Rev. Immunol. 2007 Sep;
30 7(9): 715-25).
             The produced pH-dependent binding clones described above were analyzed using
   Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) for their ability to bind to the antigen SR344 multipe times at pH
   5.8 and pH 7.4.     More specifically, the analysis was carried out as follows.    All the
   measurements were carried out at 37 0 C.      First, the sample antibodies described above were
35 bound onto a recomb-protein A/G (Pierce)-immobilized sensor chip by amine-coupling, where
   the mobile phase buffer was 10 mM MES (pH 5.8), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20 (step 1).

                                                      83
   SR344 adjusted to a concentration of about 40 nM was injected as an analyte for 3 minutes at pH
   7.4 and allowed to bind (the buffer for injected SR344 was 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl,
   and 0.05% Tween 20) (step 2). Subsequently, the injection of SR344 was discontinued and a
   mobile phase of pH 5.8 was allowed to flow for about 70 seconds to expose the antibody/SR344
 5 complex under acidic conditions (step 3).       Ten sets of this binding (step 2)/acidity exposure
   (step 3) process were continuously repeated to observe the sensorgram in real-time, which is
   shown in Fig. 11.    WT showed less dissociation of SR344 during the acidic exposure in step 3,
   and consequently the proportion of antibody capable of binding to new antigens in the
   subsequent step 2 was extremely low.       In contrast, it was found that the pH-dependent binding
 0 clones, particularly H170/L82 and CLH5/L73, demonstrated so strong dissociation during the
   acidic exposure in step 3 that most of the bound SR344 was dissociated, and therefore nearly all
   antibodies were able to bind to new antigens in the subsequent step 2.        In the 10-set repetition
   of the binding (step 2) and acidic exposure (step 3), almost all H170/L82 and CLH5/L73
   antibodies were able to bind to new antigens in each set.
 5           The obtained sensorgrams were used to calculate the binding amount of SR344 in each
   set for each sample using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare).            The integrated
   values in the time course of the 10 sets are shown in Fig. 12.      The integrated RU values
   obtained at the 10th set are equivalent to the total amount of antigens bound during the ten cycles.
   The pH-dependent binding clones, particularly H170/L82 and CLH5/L73, showed the largest
 0 total amounts of bound antigens in comparison with WT, and were demonstrated to be able to
   repeatedly bind to roughly four times the amount of antigens bound by WT.            Accordingly, it
   was revealed that by conferring pH-dependent binding ability to WT, such antibodies can
   repeatedly bind to antigens and thereby neutralize multiple antigens.
25 [Example 8] PK/PD Test of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibody Using Human IL-6 Receptor
   Transgenic Mice
             IL-6 receptors are present in the body in both soluble IL-6 receptor form and
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor form (Nat. Clin. Pract. Rheumatol. 2006 Nov; 2(11): 619-26).
   Anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies bind to soluble IL-6 receptors and membrane-type IL-6 receptors
30 and neutralize their biological action.   It is believed that an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody binds to
   a membrane-type IL-6 receptor, is subsequently taken up into an endosome within a cell by
   internalization while the antibody is kept bound to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor, and then
   moves to a lysosome while still kept bound to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor where it is
   degraded by lysosome together with the membrane-type IL-6 receptor. If H3pI/L73,
35 CLH5/L73, and H170/L82, which are the pH-dependent-binding IL-6 receptor antibodies
   evaluated in Example 6, are able to return to plasma via FcRn as a result of dissociation under

                                                      84
   acidic conditions within endosomes, the antibodies that have returned to the plasma can bind to
   antigens again.    This enables neutralization of multiple membrane-type IL-6 receptors with a
   single antibody molecule.      Whether or not the return to the plasma via FcRn as a result of
   dissociation under acidic conditions within endosomes is achieved with the constructed
 5 pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies can be determined by evaluating whether
   the pharmacokinetics of these antibodies are improved as compared with that of WT.
            Thus, the pharmacokinetics in human-IL-6-receptor transgenic mice (hIL-6R tg mice,
   Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1995 May 23; 92(11): 4862-6) was evaluated for the four types of
   antibodies, that is, humanized PM1 antibody (wild type: WT) and H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and
 0 H170/L82 constructed in Examples 2 and 4.         WT, H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, or H170/L82 was
   administered by single-dose intravenous administration to hIL-6R tg mice at 25 mg/kg, and
   blood samples were collected, before administration and over time.        Collected blood was
   immediately centrifuged for 15 minutes at 15,000 rpm and 4'C to obtain plasma.         Separated
   plasma was stored in a freezer set to -20'C or lower until measurements were carried out.
 5          The measurement of concentration in mouse plasma was carried out by ELISA.
   Samples for calibration curve were prepared at plasma concentrations of 6.4, 3.2, 1.6, 0.8, 0.4,
   0.2 and 0.1 pg/mL.      The calibration curve samples and mouse plasma measurement samples
   were dispensed into an immunoplate (Nunc-Immuno Plate, MaxiSorp (Nalge Nunc
   International)) immobilized with anti-human IgG (y-chain specific) F(ab')2 (Sigma), and allowed
 0 to stand undisturbed for one hour at room temperature.       Goat anti-human IgG-BIOT (Southern
   Biotechnology Associates) and streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate (Roche Diagnostics)
   were sequentially allowed to react, and a chromogenic reaction was carried out by using
   BluePhos Microwell Phosphatase Substrates System (Kirkegaard & Perry Laboratories) as
   substrate.   Absorbance at 650 nm was measured with a microplate reader.          The concentrations
25 in mouse plasma were calculated from the absorbance of the calibration curve using the
   analytical software SOFTmax PRO (Molecular Devices).           Time courses of plasma
   concentrations of WT as well as H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and H170/L82 are shown in FIG. 13.
            The pharmacokinetics was improved for all of H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and H170/L82 as
   compared with WT.        In particular, the pharmacokinetics of H3pI/L73 and CLH5/L73 were
30 improved considerably.       A wild type anti-IL-6 receptor antibody (WT) bound to
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor is taken up into an endosome within a cell by internalization,
   moves to a lysosome while the antibody is kept bound to the antigen, and then degraded;
   therefore, it has a short residence time in the plasma.   In contrast, since the pharmacokinetics of
   the pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies were improved considerably, the
35 pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies were thought to return to the plasma again

                                                      85
   via FcRn as a result of dissociation from the antigen, membrane-type IL-6 receptor, under acidic
   conditions within endosomes.
             Although the pharmacokinetics was improved for all of H3pI/L73, CLH5/L73, and
   H170/L82 as compared with WT, the effect of prolonging plasma persistence time of H170/L82
 5 was weaker than that of H3pI/L73 and CLH5/L73.           Since IgG molecules are thought to
   normally bind divalently to membrane-bound antigen, it is thought that anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies also bind divalently (avidity) to membrane-type IL-6 receptors and then are
   internalized.   As indicated in Example 6, the analysis using Biacore revealed that H170/L82
   rapidly dissociated from the IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8 when binding to soluble IL-6 receptor (FIG.
 0 9), but the dissociation rate thereof from the IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8 when binding to
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor was extremely slow (FIG. 10).          From this result, the reason for
   the weak effect of prolonging residence time in plasma of H170/L82 is thought to be that the
   antibody was unable to adequately dissociate within endosomes after having been internalized
   due to its slow dissociation at pH 5.8 when binding to membrane-type IL-6 receptor.          Namely,
 5 as for the case relating to membrane antigens, it was determined that in order for a single IgG
   molecule to neutralize multiple membrane antigens, the pH dependency of dissociation from
   divalent binding (avidity) is more important than the pH dependency of monovalent binding
   (affinity).
 0 [Example 9] PK/PD Test of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibody Using Cynomolgus Monkeys
             Since the pharmacokinetics of the pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies
   were improved considerably in Example 8, the pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies were thought to return to plasma via FcRn as a result of dissociation from the antigen,
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor, under acidic conditions within endosomes.           If antibodies that
25 have returned to the plasma can bind to membrane-type IL-6 receptors again, neutralization of an
   antigen, the membrane-type IL-6 receptor, by pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies is thought to persist longer than that by the wild-type anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, at
   the same dosage.      In addition, since the soluble IL-6 receptor is also present among IL-6
   receptors, the duration of neutralization is thought to be longer for the same dosage with respect
30 to the soluble IL-6 receptor as well.
             The pharmacokinetics in cynomolgus monkeys was evaluated for WT and H3pI/L73.
   WT or H3pI/L73 was administered to cynomolgus monkeys by single-dose intravenous
   administration at 1 mg/kg, and blood samples were collected, before administration and over
   time.    Collected blood was immediately centrifuged for 15 minutes at 15,000 rpm and 4'C to
35 obtain plasma.     The separated plasma was stored in a freezer set to -20'C or lower until
   measurements were carried out.

                                                    86
            The measurement of concentration in cynomolgus monkey plasma was carried out by
   ELISA.     First, anti-human IgG (y-chain specific) F(ab')2 fragment of antibody (Sigma) was
   dispensed into a Nunc-ImmunoPlate MaxiSorp (Nalge Nunc International) and allowed to stand
   undisturbed overnight at 4'C to prepare plates immobilized with anti-human IgG.        Calibration
 5 curve samples having plasma concentrations of 3.2, 1.6, 0.8, 0.4, 0.2, 0.1 and 0.05 Ig/mL and
   cynomolgus monkey plasma measurement samples diluted 100-fold or more were prepared; 200
   pL of 20 ng/mL cynomolgus monkey IL-6R was added to 100 [tL of the calibration curve
   samples and plasma measurement samples; and then, they were allowed to stand undisturbed for
   one hour at room temperature.      Subsequently, the samples were dispensed into the anti-human
 0 IgG-immobilized plate and allowed to stand undisturbed for another one hour at room
   temperature.     Biotinylated Anti-Human IL-6R Antibody (R&D) was allowed to react for one
   hour at room temperature, and then Streptavidin-PolyHRP80 (Stereospecific Detection
   Technologies) was allowed to react for one hour.     A chromogenic reaction was carried out by
   using TMP One Component HRP Microwell Substrate (BioFX Laboratories) as substrate, then,
 5 the reaction was stopped with IN sulfuric acid (Showa Chemical) and the absorbance at 450 nm
   was measured with a microplate reader.      The concentrations in cynomolgus monkey plasma
   were calculated from the absorbance of the calibration curve using the analytical software
   SOFTmax PRO (Molecular Devices).          The time courses of plasma concentrations of WT and
   H3pI/L73 after the intravenous administration are shown in FIG. 14.      As a result, the
 0 pharmacokinetics of H3pI/L73 was improved considerably in comparison with WT in
   cynomolgus monkeys in the same manner as in human IL-6 receptor transgenic mice.           Since the
   pharmacokinetics of a pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, H3pI/L73, was
   improved considerably, H3pI/L73 was thought to return to the plasma via FcRn as a result of
   dissociation from the antigen, membrane-type IL-6 receptor, under acidic conditions within
25 endosomes.
            In order to evaluate the degree to which cynomolgus monkey membrane-type IL-6
   receptor is neutralized by the intravenous administration of WT and H3pI/L73, the effects of
   sample antibodies on plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) induced by cynomolgus monkey IL-6
   were studied.     Since CRP is secreted when IL-6 binds to membrane-type IL-6 receptors, CRP
30 serves as an indicator of neutralization of membrane-type IL-6 receptors.    Cynomolgus monkey
   IL-6 (cyno.IL-6 prepared in Example 1) containing 1%inactivated cynomolgus monkey plasma
   was administered subcutaneously into lower backs of the animals daily at 5 pg/kg from day 3 to
   day 10 after the administration of WT or H3pI/L73.      Blood samples were collected from the
   saphenous vein immediately before the start of cynomolgus monkey IL-6 administration (day 3)
35 and after the administration at 24-hour intervals (day 4 to day 11), then were separated into
   plasma.    The CRP concentrations of individual animals were measured with Cias R CRP

                                                     87
   (Kanto Chemical) using an automated analyzer (TBA-120FR, Toshiba Medical Systems).                The
   time courses of CRP concentration upon induction with cynomolgus IL-6 with respect to WT
   and H3pI/L73 are shown in FIG. 15.        As a result, the duration of CRP suppression was
   prolonged considerably by H3pI/L73 in comparison with WT.            On the basis of this finding, a
 5 pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, H3pI/L73, was thought to return to the
   plasma via FcRn as a result of dissociation from its antigen, membrane-type IL-6 receptor, under
   acidic conditions within endosomes; and neutralize the membrane-type IL-6 receptor by
   re-binding thereto; and thereby suppress production of CRP for a longer period of time than WT.
   In other words, H3pI/L73 was shown to be able to bind to and neutralize the membrane-type
 0 IL-6 receptor more than once, as a single antibody molecule.        Since the duration of suppression
   of CRP production by H3pI/L73 is prolonged in comparison to that by WT, the duration of time
   where an antigen, the membrane-type IL-6 receptor, is bound by antibodies was indicated to be
   prolonged for H3pI/L73 than WT.
             In order to evaluate the degree to which cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor is
 5 neutralized by the intravenous administration of WT and H3pI/L73, the concentration of
   unbound cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor in cynomolgus monkey plasma was
   measured.     All IgG-type antibodies (cynomolgus monkey IgG, anti-human IL-6 receptor
   antibody, and a complex of anti-human-IL-6 receptor antibody and cynomolgus monkey soluble
   IL-6 receptor) present in the plasma were adsorbed to Protein A by adding 30 pIL of cynomolgus
 0 monkey plasma to an appropriate amount of rProtein A Sepharose Fast Flow (GE Healthcare)
   resin dried in a 0.22 tm filter cup (Millipore).   After spinning down with a high-speed
   centrifuge, the solution that passed through (hereinafter referred to as "pass solution") was
   recovered.     Since the pass solution does not contain the complex of anti-human IL-6 receptor
   antibody and cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor which is bound to protein A, the
25 concentration of unbound soluble IL-6 receptor can be measured by measuring the concentration
   of cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor in the pass solution.         Monoclonal Anti-human
   IL-6R Antibody (R&D) that was ruthenium-labeled with Sulfo-Tag NHS Ester (Meso Scale
   Discovery) and Biotinylated Anti-human IL-6R Antibody (R&D) were mixed with cynomolgus
   monkey IL-6 receptor calibration curve samples adjusted to concentrations of 4000, 2000, 1000,
30 500, 250, 125, and 62.5 pg/mL and the plasma samples treated with Protein A as described
   above.     The mixtures were allowed to react for one hour at room temperature.       Subsequently,
   the mixtures were dispensed into an SA-Coated Standard MA2400 96-well plate (Meso Scale
   Discovery).     After allowing to react for another one hour and washing, Read Buffer T (x4)
   (Meso Scale Discovery) was dispensed.        Immediately thereafter, the measurement with Sector
35 Imager 2400 (Meso Scale Discovery) was conducted.           The concentrations of cynomolgus
   monkey IL-6 receptor were calculated from the response of the calibration curve by using the

                                                     88
   analytical software, SOFTmax PRO (Molecular Devices).          The time courses of concentrations
   of unbound cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor for WT and H3pI/L73 are shown in FIG.
   16.   As a result, the duration of neutralization of cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor by
   H3pI/L73 was considerably prolonged as compared to that by WT. On the basis of this finding,
 5 the pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibody H3pI/L73 was thought to dissociate from
   its antigen, soluble IL-6 receptor, under acidic conditions in endosomes; and return to the plasma
   via FcRn; and bind to and neutralize the soluble IL-6 receptor again.     Since the duration of
   suppression of unbound cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor by H3pI/L73 is prolonged in
   comparison to that by WT, the duration of time where an antigen, the soluble IL-6 receptor, is
 0 bound by antibodies was indicated to be prolonged for H3pI/L73 than WT.
             From these findings, the time until the antibody disappears from the plasma as well as
   the time where soluble and membrane-type IL-6 receptors are bound by the antibody in the body
   were found to be considerably elongated for the pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies that were made to bind strongly to the antigen at pH 7.4, which is the pH in the
 5 plasma, but bind weakly to the antigen at pH 5.8, which is the pH within endosomes, as
   compared to the wild-type anti-IL-6 receptor antibody.     This makes it possible to reduce the
   dosage and frequency of administration to patients, and in consequence, the total administration
   dosage.    Therefore, the pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibody is thought to be
   particularly advantageous as a pharmaceutical for use as an IL-6 antagonist.
 0
   [Example 10] Improvement of pH-Dependent Binding to Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor by
   Optimization of Variable Region
   Optimization of Variable Regions H3pI/L73 and CLH5/L82
             Antibodies having pH-dependent binding abilities were shown to demonstrate superior
25 effects in Example 9. Therefore, to further improve the pH-dependent binding abilities,
   mutations were introduced into the CDR sequence of CLH5 obtained in Example 3 to construct
   VH1-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 21) and VH2-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 22).               In addition, mutations were
   introduced into the framework sequence and CDR sequence of H3pI to construct the modified H
   chains VH3-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 23) and VH4-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 24).               Mutations were
30 introduced into the CDR sequences of L73 and L82 to construct the modified L chains VL1-CK
   (SEQ ID NO: 25), VL2-CK (SEQ ID NO: 26), and VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO: 27).                 More
   specifically, the mutants were constructed using the QuikChange Site-Directed Mutagenesis Kit
   (Stratagene) according to the method described in the appended instructions, and the resulting
   plasmid fragments were inserted into an mammalian cell expression vector to construct the
35 desired H chain expression vectors and L chain expression vectors.       The nucleotide sequences

                                                        89
   of the resulting expression vectors were determined by methods known to persons with ordinary
   skill in the art.
              The antibody having VH2-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 22) as H chain and VL2-CK (SEQ ID
   NO: 26) as L chain was denoted as Fv-IgG1, the antibody having VH1-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 21)
 5 as H chain and L82 as L chain was denoted as Fv2-IgG1, the antibody having VH4-IgG1 (SEQ
   ID NO: 24) as H chain and VL1-CK (SEQ ID NO: 25) as L chain was denoted as Fv3-IgG1, and
   the antibody having VH3-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 23) as H chain and VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO: 27) as
   L chain was denoted as Fv4-IgG1.         Of these, Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 were expressed and
   purified.    The expression and purification were carried out by the method described in Example
 0 1.
   Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependent-Binding Clones to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
              Kinetic analyses of antigen-antibody reactions at pH 7.4 were carried out on the four
   types of antibodies, i.e., the humanized PM1 antibody (wild type: WT), and WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1,
 5 Fv2-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 constructed in Examples 2 and 10, by using Biacore T100 (GE
   Healthcare) (buffer: 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20).                 Each antibody
   was bound on a sensor chip on which an anti-IgG y chain specific F(ab) 2 (Pierce) was
   immobilized by amine coupling, and then, SR344 adjusted to a concentration of 9.8 to 40 nM
   was injected thereto as an analyte.      The association to and dissociation from SR344 were
 0 observed on a real-time basis for the pH-dependent-binding clones.         All the measurements were
   carried out at 370 C.     Association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation rate constants kd (1/s)
   were calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare), and dissociation
   constants KD (M) were calculated on the basis of those values (Table 7).
25 [Table 7]     Comparison of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependent-Binding Clones from
   Soluble IL-6 Receptor, SR344
    Sample           ka (I/Ms)     kd (1/s)       KD (M)
    WT               4. OE+05      I. 1E-03       2. 7E-09
    H3pl/L73         4. 1E+05      5. 9E-04       1.4E-09
    Fv2-IgG1         3.9E+05       7.7E-04        2.OE-09
    Fv4-IgGl         7.2E+05       1.OE-03        1.4E-09
              As a result of calculating the affinity at pH 7.4 for each clone, the dissociation constants
30 (affinity, KD value) of WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 to SR344 were,
   respectively, 2.7 nM, 1.4 nM, 2.0 nM, and 1.4 nM, and they are nearly equivalent. Fv2-IgG1

                                                    90
   and Fv4-IgG1 were demonstrated to have binding ability to the soluble IL-6 receptor that is
   equal to or greater than that of WT.
   Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependent-Binding Clones to Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor
 5           Antigen-antibody reactions to membrane-type IL-6 receptor were observed at pH 5.8
   and pH 7.4 for the four types of constructed clones, WT, H3pI/L73-IgGl, Fv2-IgGl, and
   Fv4-IgG1 by using Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare). Binding to the membrane-type IL-6
   receptor was evaluated by evaluating binding to the IL-6 receptor immobilized on a sensor chip.
   SR344 was biotinylated in accordance with a method known among persons with ordinary skill
 0 in the art, and the biotinylated SR344 was immobilized on the sensor chip via streptavidin using
   the affinity between streptavidin and biotin. All the measurements were carried out at 37'C.
   The mobile phase buffer was 10 mM MES (pH 5.8), 150 mM NaCl and 0.05% Tween 20. The
   pH-dependent-binding clones were injected therein under conditions of pH 7.4 to allow them to
   bind to SR344 (injection sample buffer: 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, 0.05% Tween 20),
 5 then, pH-dependent dissociation of each clone was observed at the pH of the mobile phase of 5.8
   (FIG. 17).
              Sample concentrations were adjusted to 0.25 [g/mL. Binding was carried out in 10
   mM MES (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20. Dissociation was carried out in 10
   mM MES (pH 5.8), 150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20. For this case, the dissociation rate
 0 constants (kd(1/s)) at pH 5.8 were calculated by fitting only the dissociation phase at pH 5.8
   using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare). In a similar manner, sample
   concentrations were adjusted to 0.25 ptg/mL, binding was carried out in 10 mM MES (pH 7.4),
   150 mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20, dissociation was carried out in 10 mM MES (pH 7.4), 150
   mM NaCl, and 0.05% Tween 20, and the dissociation rate constants (kd(1/s)) at pH 7.4 were
25 calculated by fitting only the dissociation phase at pH 7.4 using Biacore T100 Evaluation
   Software (GE Healthcare). The pH-dependent dissociation rate constants of each clone are
   shown in Table 8.
   [Table 8] Comparison of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependent-Binding Clones from
30 Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor, SR344
                            pH7.4         pH5.8          pH Dependency
         Sample           kd (1/s)       kd (1/s)    kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4)
           WT             2.5E-04        2.5E-04               1.00
        H3pI/L73          2.6E-04        6.7E-04               2.59
        Fv2-IgG1          3.4E-04        2.4E-03               7.18
        Fv4-IgG1          4.7E-04        2.6E-03               5.56

                                                      91
             As a result of calculating pH dependency for each clone, the pH dependencies of
   binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor of the four clones, WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1,
   and Fv4-IgG1 with respect to SR344 were 1.0-fold, 2.59-fold, 7.18-fold, and 5.56-fold,
   respectively. Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 demonstrated higher pH-dependency in dissociation
 5 from the membrane-type IL-6 receptor than H3pI/L73-IgG1.
             On the basis of the above, Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 were shown to demonstrate stronger
   pH-dependent binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor than H3pI/L73-IgG1 while
   maintaining the affinity for the soluble IL-6 receptor equal to or stronger than that of WT.
 0 [Example 11] PK/PD Test of pH-Dependent-Binding Antibodies with Optimized Variable
   Regions Using Human IL-6 Receptor Transgenic Mice
             The pharmacokinetics of Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1, as well as WT and H3pI/L73-IgG1
   prepared and evaluated in Example 10 were evaluated using the human IL-6 receptor transgenic
   mice used in Example 8. WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1, or Fv4-IgG1 was administered by
 5 single-dose intravenous administration to hIL-6R tg mice at 25 mg/kg, and the concentration of
   each antibody in the plasma was measured in the same manner as in Example 8.            The time
   courses of the plasma concentrations of WT, H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv2-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 are
   shown in FIG. 18.
             The pharmacokinetics of H3pI/L73-IgG1 improved in comparison with WT in the same
 0 manner as in Example 8, while the pharmacokinetics of Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 was further
   improved than H3pI/L73-IgG1.         Measurement as to the unbound IL-6 receptor concentrations,
   as measured in cynomolgus monkeys in Example 9, was carried out in the hIL-6R tg mice in this
   test using the same method.      As a result, prolongation of the duration of neutralization of the
   soluble IL-6 receptor was confirmed for Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 in comparison to that for
25 H3pI/L73-IgG1 (data not shown).        As indicated in Example 10, the pH-dependent binding to
   the membrane-type IL-6 receptor was improved for Fv2-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 as compared with
   H3pI/L73-IgG1.      Therefore, it was indicated that further improvement in the pharmacokinetics
   and duration of neutralization of the soluble IL-6 receptor over those of H3pI/L73-IgG1 is
   possible by improving the pH-dependent binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor.
30
   [Example 12] Improvement of pH-Dependent Binding to Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor by
   Optimization of Constant Region
   Optimization of Constant Region of Fv4-IgG 1
             Generally, binding to membrane-bound antigens has been reported to vary depending on
35 the constant region of the antibody (J. Immunol. Methods 1997 Jun 23; 205(1): 67-72).          The
   constant regions of the pH-dependent-binding antibodies prepared above were of the IgG 1

                                                  92
isotype.   Therefore, a study was made for optimization of the constant region in order to
improve the pH-dependent binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor.
          A mutation was introduced into a naturally-occurring constant region, i.e., constant
region IgG2 (SEQ ID NO: 28), to construct constant region IgG2AGK (SEQ ID NO: 29).
Another mutation was introduced into the constant region IgG2AGK to construct constant region
M58 (SEQ ID NO: 30).       Mutations were further introduced into the constant regions IgG2 and
M58 to construct constant regions M71 (SEQ ID NO: 31) and M73 (SEQ ID NO: 32).
          VH3-IgG2AGK (SEQ ID NO: 33) was constructed by substituting the constant region
of VH3-IgG1 prepared in Example 10 with IgG2AGK, VH3-M58 (SEQ ID NO: 34) was
constructed by substituting the constant region with M58, and VH3-M73 (SEQ ID NO: 35) was
constructed by substituting the constant region with M73.     More specifically, expression
vectors in which the constant region portion of VH3 used in Example 10 was substituted by a
desired constant region by NheI/NotI digestion and ligation were constructed.     The nucleotide
sequences of the resulting expression vectors were determined using a method known among
persons with ordinary skill in the art.
          Expression and purification were carried out for the following: Fv4-IgG2 using
VH3-IgG2AGK (SEQ ID NO: 33) for the H chain and VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO: 27) for the L
chain; Fv4-M58 using VH3-M58 (SEQ ID NO: 34) for the H chain and VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO:
27) for the L chain; and Fv4-M73 using VH3-M73 (SEQ ID NO: 35) for the H chain and
VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO: 27) for the L chain.         Expression and purification were carried out using
the method described in Example 1.
Analysis of Binding of Fv4 Having Optimized Constant Region to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
          The association with and dissociation from SR344 were observed on a real-time basis
using the same method as Example 10 for thus-prepared Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and
Fv4-M73 as well as WT.       The association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation rate
constants kd (/s)  were calculated after analysis in the same manner, and then, dissociation
constants KD (M) were calculated on the basis of those values (Table 9).
[Table 9]    Comparison of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependently-Binding Clones from
Soluble IL-6 Receptor, SR344
     Sample        ka (1/Ms)      kd (1/s)             KD (M)
    Fv4-IgG1        7.2E+05       1.OE-03             1.4E-09
    Fv4-IgG2        9.6E+05       1.2E-03             1.3E-09
    Fv4-M58         8.3E+05       1.1E-03             1.4E-09
    Fv4-M73         7.5E+05       1.OE-03             1.4E-09

                                                       93
             As a result of calculating the affinity at pH 7.4 for each clone, the dissociation constants
   (affinity, KD value) of Fv4-IgGl, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73 to SR344 were 1.4 nM,
   1.3 nM, 1.4 nM, and 1.4 nM, respectively, and they are almost equivalent. This indicates that
   the binding ability of pH-dependent-binding clones to the soluble IL-6 receptor, SR344, does not
 5 change even after modifying the constant region. On the basis of this finding, the binding
   ability to the soluble IL-6 receptor was thought to not change for FvI, Fv2, and Fv3 even if the
   constant region was similarly modified.
   Analysis of Binding of Fv4 Having Optimized Constant Region to Membrane-Type IL-6
 0 Receptor
             Antigen-antibody reactions to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4
   were observed for thus-prepared Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73 as well as WT,
   in the same manner as in Example 10 using Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare). The results
   obtained by injecting the pH-dependent-binding clones under the conditions of pH 7.4 to allow
 5 binding to SR344, and by observing the pH-dependent dissociation of each clone in the pH 5.8
   mobile phase, are shown in FIG. 19. Further analyses were conducted in the same manner as in
   Example 10, and the pH-dependent dissociation rates for each clone are shown in Table 10.
   [Table 10] Comparison of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependently-Binding Clones
 0 from Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor, SR344
                          pH7.4          pH5.8           pH Dependency
        Sample           kd (1/s)       kd (1/s)      kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4)
       Fv4-IgG1          4.7E-04        2.6E-03                5.56
       Fv4-IgG2          1.OE-03        1.8E-02               16.99
       Fv4-M58           5.4E-04        9.5E-03               17.64
       Fv4-M73           5.1E-04        5.1E-03               10.06
             As a result of calculating the pH dependency for each clone, the pH dependencies of
   Fv4-IgGl, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73 to SR344 were 5.6-fold, 17.0-fold, 17.6-fold, and
25 10.1-fold, respectively; thus, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73 all demonstrated higher
   pH-dependent dissociation from the membrane-type IL-6 receptor than Fv4-IgGl.
             Based on the results of analyzing binding to the soluble IL-6 receptor and binding to the
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor using the variable region of Fv4, it was found that substitution of
   the constant region from IgG1 to IgG2, M58, or M73 could improve the pH-dependent binding
30 to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor, without causing a change in the affinity to the soluble IL-6
   receptor. This was considered to similarly hold for Fyi, Fv2, and Fv3.

                                                      94
   [Example 13] PK/PD Test of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibodies Having Optimized Constant
   Region Using Human IL-6 Receptor Transgenic Mice
             The pharmacokinetics of Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, and Fv4-M58 prepared in Example 13
 5 were evaluated using the human IL-6 receptor transgenic mice (hIL-6R tg mice) used in
   Example 8 to examine the effects of the constant region on the pharmacokinetics.         WT,
   Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, or Fv4-M58 was administered to the hIL-6R tg mice by single-dose
   intravenous administration at 25 mg/kg, and then, measurement of the plasma concentrations of
   each antibody was carried out in the same manner as in Example 8.         The time courses of plasma
 0 concentrations of WT, Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, and Fv4-M58 are shown in FIG. 20.
             Similar to Example 11, the pharmacokinetics of Fv4-IgG1 was improved in comparison
   with WT, and the pharmacokinetics of Fv4-IgG2 and Fv4-M58 was further improved in
   comparison with Fv4-IgG1.        Measurement as to the unbound IL-6 receptor concentrations, as
   measured in cynomolgus monkeys in Example 9, was carried out in the hIL-6R tg mice in this
 5 test using the same method.      As a result, prolongation of the duration of neutralization of the
   soluble IL-6 receptor was confirmed for Fv4-IgG2 and Fv4-M58 in comparison to that of
   Fv4-IgG1 (data not shown).       As indicated in Example 10, the pH-dependent binding to the
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor was improved for Fv4-IgG2 and Fv4-M58 as compared with
   Fv4-IgG1.      Therefore, it was shown that improvement in the pH-dependent binding to the
 0 membrane-type IL-6 receptor and improvement in the pharmacokinetics and duration of
   neutralization of the soluble IL-6 receptor are possible by substituting the constant region from
   IgGI to IgG2 or M58.       On the basis of this finding, it was thought that the pharmacokinetics
   and duration of neutralization of the soluble IL-6 receptor, not only in the case of Fv4, but also in
   the cases of FyI, Fv2, and Fv3, can be improved as compared to IgGI by substituting the
25 constant region from IgGI to IgG2 or M58.
   [Example 14] Construction of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibodies Having Optimized Variable
   and Constant Regions
             VH2-M71 (SEQ ID NO: 36) and VH2-M73 (SEQ ID NO: 37), having M71 and M73
30 for the constant region of VH2-IgG1, and VH4-M71 (SEQ ID NO: 38) and VH4-M73 (SEQ ID
   NO: 39), having M71 and M73 for the constant region of VH4-IgG1, were constructed using the
   same method as described above.
             Fv 1-M71 using VH2-M71 for the H chain and VL2-CK for the L chain, Fv 1-M73 using
   VH2-M73 for the H chain and VL2-CK for the H chain, Fv3-M71 using VH4-M71 for the H
35 chain and VL1-CK for the L chain, and Fv3-M73 using VH4-M73 for the H chain and VL1-CK

                                                      95
   for the L chain, were expressed and purified.      Expression and purification were carried out
   using the method described in Example 1.
   Analyses of Binding of pH-Dependent-Binding Antibodies Having Optimized Variable and
 5 Constant Regions to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
             The association to and dissociation from SR344 were observed on a real-time basis
   using the same method as Example 10 for the eleven types of antibodies, humanized PM 1
   antibody (wild type: WT) and H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fv1-M71, Fv1-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M71,
   Fv3-M73, Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73, constructed as described above.              The
 0 association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation rate constants kd (/S)   were calculated by
   analysis in the same manner, and the dissociation constants KD (M) were calculated on the basis
   of those values (Table 11).
   [Table 11]     Comparison of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependently-Binding Clones
 5 from Soluble IL-6 Receptor, SR344
    Sample       ka (1/Ms)    kd   (1/s)   KD (M)
    WT           4.OE+05       1.1E-03     2.7E-09
    H3pI/L73     4.1E+05      5.9E-04      1.4E-09
    Fv1-M71      5.5E+05      5.4E-04      9.7E-10
    Fv1-M73      6.1E+05      5.5E-04      9.1E-10
    Fv2-IgG1     3. 9E+05     7. 7E-04     2.OE-09
    Fv3-M71      7. 8E+05     8. 2E-04     1. 1E-09
    Fv3-M73      8.5E+05      8.7E-04      1.OE-09
    Fv4-IgG1     7.2E+05       1.OE-03     1.4E-09
    Fv4-IgG2     9.6E+05       1.2E-03     1.3E-09
    Fv4-M58      8. 3E+05      1. 1E-03    1. 4E-09
    Fv4-M73      7.5E+05      1.OE-03      1.4E-09
             All of the resulting ten types of pH-dependent-binding clones were found to have
   dissociation constants (affinity, KD values) to the soluble IL-6 receptor equal to or stronger than
20 that of WT.
   Analyses of Binding of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibodies Having Optimized Variable and
   Constant Regions to Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor
             Antigen-antibody reactions to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4
25 were observed in the same manner as in Example 10 using Biacore Ti100 (GE Healthcare) for the
   eleven types of antibodies, humanized PM1 antibody (wild type: WT) and H3pI/L73-IgG1,
   Fv1-M71, Fv1-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M71, Fv3-M73, Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and
   Fv4-M73, prepared as described above.         The pH-dependently-binding clones were injected

                                                     96
   under the condition of pH 7.4 to allow them to bind to SR344, and then, the pH-dependent
   dissociation of each clone at the pH of the mobile phase, pH 5.8, was observed.   The results are
   shown in FIG. 21 (results for Fv1-M71, Fv1-M73, Fv3-M71, and Fv3-M73 are shown in FIG. 21,
   while results for other clones are shown in FIGs. 17 and 19).  Analyses were carried out in the
5  same manner as in Example 10 and the pH dependencies of the dissociation rate constants of all
   of the eleven types of clones are shown in Table 12.
   [Table 12]    pH Dependencies of Dissociation Rate Constants of pH-Dependently-Binding
   Clones from Membrane-Type IL-6 Receptor, SR344
                      pH7.4       pH5.8      pH Dependency
        Sample       kd (1/s)    kd (1/s)  kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4)
          WT         2.5E- 04    2.5E-04           1.00
      H3pI/L73       2.6E- 04    6.7E-04           2.59
       Fv1- M71      6.1E- 04    6.9E-03         11.29
       Fv1-M73       3.7E-04     3.2E-03           8.80
      Fv2-IgG1       3.4E-04     2.4E-03           7.18
       Fv3-M71       9.1E- 04    9.7E-03         10.74
       Fv3-M73       4.9E- 04    5.3E-03         10.88
      Fv4-IgG1       4.7E-04     2.6E-03           5.56
      Fv4-IgG2       1.0E- 03    1.8E-02         16.99
       Fv4-M58       5.4E-04     9.5E-03         17.64
                     5.1E- 04    5.1E - 03       10.06
0      Fv4-M73
             The ten types of obtained pH-dependently-binding clones demonstrated pH-dependent
   binding ability to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor.     Moreover, all of Fv1-M71, Fv1-M73,
   Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M7 1, Fv3-M73, Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73 were found to
   demonstrate improved pH-dependent binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor, in comparison
5  with H3pI/L73-IgG 1, for which the time until the antibody disappears from the plasma as well as
   the time where the soluble IL-6 receptor and membrane-type IL-6 receptor are bound by the
   antibody in the body were found to be prolonged considerably in comparison with WT, as shown
   in cynomolgus monkeys in Example 9.
~0 [Example 151 PK/PD Test of pH-Dependently-Binding Antibodies Having Optimized Variable
   and Constant Regions Using Cynomolgus Monkeys
   Construction of Known High-Affinity Anti-IL-6 Receptor Antibody
             A mammalian cell expression vector was constructed to express the high-affinity
   anti-IL-6 receptor antibody VQ8F1 1-21 hIgG1 described in US 2007/0280945 A1 (US
~5 2007/0280945 A1, amino acid sequences 19 and 27), as a known high-affinity anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibody. An antibody variable region was constructed by PCR combining synthetic
   oligo-DNAs (assembly PCR). The constant region was amplified by PCR from the expression
   vector used in Example 1. The antibody variable region and antibody constant region were

                                                     97
   ligated by assembly PCR and inserted into a vector for expression in mammals.          The resulting
   H chain and L chain DNA fragments were inserted into mammalian cell expression vectors to
   construct the H chain expression vector and L chain expression vector of interest.      The
   nucleotide sequences of the resulting expression vectors were determined by a method known
 5 among persons with ordinary skill in the art.     Expression and purification were carried out using
   the constructed expression vectors.     Expression and purification were carried out using the
   method described in Example 1 to obtain the high-affinity anti-IL-6 receptor antibody (high
   affinity Ab).
 0 PK/PD Test in Cynomolgus Monkeys
             The pharmacokinetics and pharmacological efficacy were evaluated in cynomolgus
   monkeys for the pH-dependently-binding antibodies H3pI/L73-IgG1 and Fv-M71, Fv-M73,
   Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M73, and Fv4-M73 and the known high-affinity anti-IL-6 receptor antibody
   (high affinity Ab).    H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fvl-M71, Fvl-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M73, or Fv4-M73
 5 was administered to cynomolgus monkeys by single-dose intravenous administration at 0.5
   mg/kg, while the high affinity Ab was administered by single-dose intravenous administration at
   1.0 mg/kg.    Blood samples were collected before administration and over time.        The plasma
   concentration of each antibody was measured in the same manner as in Example 9.           The time
   courses of plasma concentrations of H3pI/L73-IgG1, Fvl-M71, Fv-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M73,
 0 and Fv4-M73, as well as the high affinity Ab are shown in FIG. 21.        In order to evaluate the
   pharmacological efficacy in terms of the degree to which the cynomolgus monkey
   membrane-type IL-6 receptor is neutralized, cynomolgus monkey IL-6 was administered
   subcutaneously into the lower backs of the animals daily at 5 pLg/kg from day 3 to day 10 (from
   day 6 to day 10 with respect to the high affinity Ab) after the administration of antibody, in the
25 same manner as in Example 9.        The CRP concentration of each animal was measured 24 hours
   after each administration.     The time courses of CRP concentrations with the administration of
   each antibody are shown in FIG. 22.      In order to evaluate the pharmacological efficacy in terms
   of the degree of neutralization of cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor, the concentration of
   the unbound cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor in cynomolgus monkey plasma was
30 measured in the same manner as Example 9.         The time courses of the unbound cynomolgus
   monkey soluble IL-6 receptor concentrations with the administration of each antibody are shown
   in FIG. 23.
             As a result, the antibody concentrations in plasma were maintained high for each of
   Fvl-M71, Fvl-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M73 and Fv4-M73 in comparison with H3pI/L73-IgG1,
35 while the concentrations of CRP and the unbound cynomolgus monkey soluble IL-6 receptor
   were maintained at low levels.      Namely, this result showed that the time where the

                                                     98
   membrane-type and soluble IL-6 receptors are bound by the antibody (or in other words, the
   duration of neutralization) was prolonged by the antibodies in comparison with H3pI/L73 -IgG 1.
             In addition, these pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies were confirmed
   for their neutralization effects and sustained efficacy equal to or greater than that of the known
 5 high-affinity anti-IL-6 receptor antibody (high affinity Ab) administered at 1.0 mg/kg, at only
   half the dosage thereof, i.e., at 0.5 mg/kg.   Therefore, the pH-dependently-binding antibodies
   were elucidated to have the neutralization effects and sustained efficacy superior to those of the
   known high-affinity anti-IL-6 receptor antibody.
             Those antibodies shown in Table 12 for which PK/PD tests were not carried out using
 0 cynomolgus monkeys as in this test, have also been confirmed to demonstrate improved
   pH-dependent binding to the membrane-type IL-6 receptor in comparison with H3pI/L73-IgG1.
   Therefore, the time during which the membrane-type and soluble IL-6 receptor are bound by the
   antibodies (or in other words, the duration of neutralization and sustained neutralization effects)
   are also thought to be prolonged for the antibodies in comparison with H3pI/L73-IgG1.
 5           In Example 9, for H3pI/L73-IgG1, the time until the antibody disappears from the
   plasma as well as the time where the soluble IL-6 receptor and membrane-type IL-6 receptor are
   bound by the antibody in the body (sustained neutralization effects) were found to be prolonged
   considerably as compared with WT.        Fvl-M71, Fvl-M73, Fv2-IgG1, Fv3-M71, Fv3-M73,
   Fv4-IgG1, Fv4-IgG2, Fv4-M58, and Fv4-M73, having superior sustained neutralization effects
 0 to H3pI/L73-IgG 1, are therefore thought to have remarkably improved sustained neutralization
   effects as compared with WT.
             In contrast to anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies, the pH-dependent-binding anti-IL-6 receptor
   antibodies that are made to strongly bind to the antigen at the pH in the plasma of pH 7.4 but
   only weakly bind to the antigen at the pH in endosomes of pH 5.8, make it possible to reduce the
25 patient dosage and administration frequency of the anti-IL-6 receptor antibody, and as a result,
   they can considerably reduce the total administration amount. Therefore, the
   pH-dependently-binding anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies are thought to be extremely superior as a
   pharmaceutical for use as an IL-6 antagonist.
30 [Example 16] Construction of pH-Dependently Binding Anti-IL-6 Antibody
   Expression and Purification of Anti-IL-6 Antibody
          In Examples 1 to 15, a plurality of humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies that
   pH-dependently bind to the IL-6 receptor were successfully created by imparting the dependency
   through introducing histidine substitutions and the like into the variable region, in particular, the
35 CDR sequences of the humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies.         It was found that all of these

                                                     99
   antibodies repeatedly bind to the IL-6 receptor and demonstrate a considerable improvement in
   PK/PD.
          Therefore, it was confirmed that the pH-dependent ability of an antibody to bind to an
   antigen could be confered to another antibody that binds to an antigen other than the IL-6
 5 receptor using a similar method.     Human IL-6 was selected as the antigen, and an anti-IL-6
   antibody including the H chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 62) and L chain (WT)
   (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 63), which binds to IL-6 as described in WO 2004/039826,
   ("Anti-IL6 wild type") was constructed. Using a method known to those skilled in the art, gene
   fragments encoding the antibody amino acid sequences of interest were inserted into mammalian
 0 cell expression vectors to construct the H chain expression vector and L chain expression vector
   of interest.  The nucleotide sequences of the resulting expression vectors were determined using
   a method known to a skilled person. Anti-IL6 wild type was expressed and purified by the
   method described in Example 1.
 5 Construction of pH-Dependent Anti-IL-6 Antibody
          To confer the pH-dependent ability of the antibody to bind to IL-6, histidine substitutions
   were introduced into the amino acids in CDR of the anti-IL-6 antibody (Anti-IL6 wild type)
   including the H chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 62) and L chain (WT) (amino
   acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 63).        By substituting histidine in the CDR amino acids and
 0 subsequently screening, several clones that demonstrate the pH-dependent binding were obtained.
   The binding at pH 5.5 was significantly reduced as compared with the binding at pH 7.4.       The
   positions of histidine substitution in the pH-dependent clones are shown in Table 13.    The
   examples include "Anti-IL6 clone 1" including the H chain (cI) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID
   NO: 64) and L chain (c1) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 65), and "Anti-IL-6 clone 2"
25 including the H chain (cI) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 64) and L chain (c2) (amino acid
   sequence: SEQ ID NO: 66).        Anti-IL6 clone 1 and Anti-IL-6 clone 2 were expressed and
   purified by the method described in Example 1.
   [Table 13] Positions of Histidine Substitution in pH-dependent clones
30 H32, H59, H61, H99
   L53, L54, L90, L94
   Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependent Clones to Human IL-6
          Kinetic analysis of antigen-antibody reactions at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 was carried out using
35 Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) for the three types of antibodies prepared as mentioned above:
   Anti-IL6 wild type, Anti-IL6 clone 1, and Anti-IL-6 clone 2 (buffer: DPBS(-) (pH 7.4 or pH 5.5),

                                                         100
   150 mM NaCI).          The antibodies were bound to a sensor chip on which recomb-protein A/G
   (Pierce) was immobilized by amine coupling, and then human IL-6 (Toray) adjusted to an
   appropriate concentration was injected on the chip as an analyte.           All the measurements were
   carried out at 37'C.        Association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation rate constants kd (1/s)
 5 were calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare), and dissociation
   constants KD (M) were calculated based on those values (Table 14).               Furthermore, the ratio of
   affinity at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 was calculated for each clone to evaluate the pH-dependent
   binding.
 0 [Table 14]         Comparison of Binding of pH-Dependent Clones to IL-6
    Sample           pH    ka(1/Ms)  kd(1/s)     KD(M)     KD(pH5.5)/KD(pH7.4)
      Wil
   W ild  tpepH7.4
          type            2.05E+07:391 E-04' 1.91 E-11
                      .................                           0I
                                                                   0.8
                    pH5.5 1.52E+07 2.45E-04    1.61E-11
                    pH7.4 1.07E+07 4.71 E-031 4.38E- 10
     clonel-                                                      10.3
                    pH5.5 2.05E+06 9.26E-03    4.52E-09
                    pH7.4 8.96E+06 2.63E-03    2.94E-1 0
     clone2                                                       13.5
      ________pH5.5       2.76E+06 :1.1OE-02   3.98E-09_________
            The ratio of affinity at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 ((KD)(pH 5.5)/(KD)(pH 7.4)) calculated, which
   indicates the pH-dependent binding to human IL-6, was 0.8, 10.3, and 13.5 for Anti-IL6 wild
 5 type, Anti-IL6 clone 1, and Anti-IL6 clone 2, respectively.           That is, the pH-dependent binding
   ability of each clone is more than 10 times greater than that of WT.            The sensorgrams of
   Anti-IL-6 clone 2 at pH 7.4 and pH 5.5 are shown in FIG. 26.
            Thus, it was shown that, as in the case of the anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies,
   pH-dependently binding anti-IL-6 antibodies that bind to the antigen strongly under plasma
20 neutral conditions, but weakly under intraendosomal acidic conditions can be constructed by
   introducing histidine substitutions and the like mainly into the CDR amino acid sequences.               As
   indicated in Examples 1 to 15, an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody that has the pH-dependent binding
   ability repeatedly binds to the IL-6 receptor and PK/PD is remarkably improved.              That is, it was
   suggested that Anti-IL-6 clone 1 and Anti-IL-6 clone 2, which have the pH-dependent binding
25 ability, repeatedly bind to more antigens with significantly improved PK/PD, as compared with
   Anti-IL6 wild type.
   [Example 17] Construction of pH-Dependently Binding Anti-IL-31 Receptor Antibody
   Expression and Purification of Anti-IL-31 Receptor Antibody
30          In Examples 1 to 15, a plurality of humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies that
   pH-dependently bind to the IL-6 receptor were successfully created by conferring the pH

                                                     101
   dependency through introducing histidine substitutions and the like into the variable region, in
   particular, the CDR sequences of the humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies.        It was found
   that all of these antibodies repeatedly bind to the IL-6 receptor and demonstrate a considerable
   improvement of PK/PD.
 5        Therefore, it was confirmed that the pH dependent ability of an antibody to bind to an
   antigen could be confered to another antibody that binds to an antigen other than the IL-6
   receptor using a similar method.     Mouse IL-31 receptor was selected as the antigen, and an
   anti-IL-31 receptor antibody including the H chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 67)
   and L chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 68), which binds to the mouse IL-31
 0 receptor as described in WO 2007/142325, ("Anti-IL31R wild type") was constructed.            Using a
   method known to those skilled in the art, gene fragments encoding the amino acid sequences of
   interest were inserted into mammalian cell expression vectors to construct the H chain
   expression vector and L chain expression vector of interest.       The nucleotide sequences of the
   resulting expression vectors were determined using a method known to a skilled person.
 5 Anti-IL3 IR wild type was expressed and purified by the method described in Example 1.
   Construction of pH-Dependent Anti-IL-31 Receptor Antibody
          To confer the pH-dependent ability of the antibody to bind to the IL-31 receptor, histidine
   substitutions were introduced into the amino acids of CDR of the anti-IL-31 receptor antibody
 0 (Anti-IL3 IR wild type) including the H chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 67) and
   L chain (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 68).           By histidine substitutions in the CDR
   amino acids and subsequent screening, several clones that demonstrate the pH-dependent
   binding were obtained.     The binding at pH 5.5 was significantly reduced as compared with the
   binding at pH 7.4.     The position of histidine substitution in the pH-dependent clones is shown
25 in Table 15.    An example is "Anti-IL31R clone 1" including the H chain (c1) (amino acid
   sequence: SEQ ID NO: 69) and L chain (WT).          Anti-IL3IR clone 1 was expressed and purified
   using the method described in Example 1.
   [Table 15] Position of Histidine Substitution in pH-dependent clones
30 H33
   Analysis of Binding of pH-Dependent Clones to Soluble IL-31 Receptor
          Kinetic analysis of antigen-antibody reactions at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 was carried out using
   Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) for the two types of antibodies prepared as mentioned above:
35 Anti-IL3 IR wild type and Anti-IL3 IR clone 1 (buffer: DPBS(-) (pH 7.4 or pH 5.5), 150 mM
   NaCl, 0.01% Tween 20, 0.02% NaN 3).          The antibodies were bound to a sensor chip on which

                                                      102
  recomb-protein A/G (Pierce) was immobilized by amine coupling, and then the soluble mouse
  IL-31 receptor (prepared according to the method described in WO 2007/142325) adjusted to an
  appropriate concentration was injected therein as an analyte.          All the measurements were
  carried out at 25'C.      Association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation rate constants kd (/s)
5 were calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare), and dissociation
  constants KD (M) were calculated based on those values (Table 16).               Furthermore, the ratio of
  affinity at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 was calculated for each clone to evaluate the pH-dependent
  binding.
0 [Table 16]     Comparison of Binding of pH-Dependent Clones to Mouse IL-31 Receptor
   Sample       pH      ka(1/Ms)  kd(1/s)      KD(M)    KD(pH5.5)/KD(pH7.4)
              pH7.4    1.40E+05  3.40E-03    2.30E-08
  Wild type    -   - - - - - -+ - - -.--         - -.           3.2
              pH5.5    5.10E+05 :3.80E-03    7.40E-08 1
              pH7.4   |1.70E+05 3.30E-03:    2.20E-08
    clones   .     - - --.-               -|  --               00............0
              pH5.5    1.10E+03 .2.40E-02|   2.20E-05
         The ratio of affinity at pH 5.5 and pH 7.4 ((KD)(pH 5.5)/(KD)(pH 7.4)) calculated, which
  indicates the pH-dependent binding to the mouse IL-3 1 receptor, was 3.2 and 1000 for
5 Anti-IL31R wild type and Anti-IL31R clone 1, respectively.              That is, the pH-dependent binding
  ability of Anti-IL31R clone 1 is about 300 times greater than that of WT.             The sensorgrams for
  Anti-IL3IR clone 1 at pH 7.4 and pH 5.5 are shown in FIG. 27.
         Thus, it was shown that, as in the cases of the anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies and anti-IL-6
  antibodies, pH-dependent binding anti-IL-31 receptor antibodies that bind to the antigen strongly
0 under plasma neutral conditions, but weakly under intraendosomal acidic conditions can be
  constructed by introducing histidine substitutions and the like mainly into the CDR amino acid
  sequences.     As indicated in Examples 1 to 15, an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody that has the
  pH-dependent binding ability repeatedly binds to the IL-6 receptor and PK/PD is remarkably
  improved.      That is, it was suggested that Anti-IL3 1R clone 1, which has the pH-dependent
5 binding ability, repeatedly binds to more antigens with significantly improved PK/PD, as
  compared with Anti-IL31iR wild type.
  [Example 18] Repetitive Binding to Antigen by pH-Dependently Binding Antibody
  Expression and Purification of Antibody Administered to Mice
0        The four types of humanized IL-6 receptor antibodies described below were prepared.
  As the antibodies that do not pH-dependently bind to the IL-6 receptor, WT-IgG1 including H

                                                                103
  (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 9) and L (WT) (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO:
  10), and H54/L28-IgG1 including H54 (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 70) and L28 (amino
  acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 12) were expressed and purified using the method indicated in
  Example 1.          As the antibodies that pH-dependently bind to the IL-6 receptor, H170/L82-IgG1
5 of Example 3 including H170 (amino acid sequence: SEQ ID NO: 4) and L82 (amino acid
  sequence: SEQ ID NO: 7), and Fv4-IgG1 of Example 10 including VH3-IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 23)
  and VL3-CK (SEQ ID NO: 27), were expressed and purified using the method indicated in
  Example 1.
0 Analysis of Binding of Each Type of Antibody to Soluble IL-6 Receptor
           Kinetic analysis of antigen-antibody reactions at pH 7.4 and pH 5.8 was carried out using
  Biacore T100 (GE Healthcare) for the four types of antibodies prepared: WT-IgG1,
  H54/L28-IgG1, H170/L82-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 (buffer: 10 mM MES (pH 7.4 or pH 5.8), 150
  mM NaCl, 0.05% Surfactant-P20).                   The antibodies were bound to a sensor chip on which
5 recomb-protein A/G (Pierce) was immobilized by amine coupling, and SR344 adjusted to an
  appropriate concentration was injected therein as an analyte.                 The association with and
  dissociation from SR344 of each type of antibody were observed on a real-time basis.                        All the
  measurements were carried out at 37'C.                   Association rate constants ka (1/Ms) and dissociation
  rate constants kd (1/s) were calculated using Biacore T100 Evaluation Software (GE Healthcare),
0 and dissociation constants KD (M) were calculated based on those values (Table 17).
  [Table 17]        Comparison of Association Rates (ka), Dissociation Rates (kd), and Dissociation
  Constants of Each Type of Antibody Against Soluble IL-6 Receptor (SR344)
                        pH7.4                   pH5.8                pH Dependency
   Sample ka(1/Ms) kd(1/s) KD(M)        ka(1/Ms) kd(1/s) KD(M) kd(pH5.8)/kd(pH7.4)
                                                                            KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4)
  WT-IgG1       4.9E+05 9.4E-04 1.9E-09 8.9E+05 2.7E-03 3.1E-09     2.9             1.6
  H54/L28-IgG1 8.3E+05 1.4E-03 1.7E-09  2.4E+06 2.7E-03 1.1E-09     2.0             0.7
  H170/L82-IgG1 6.7E+05 1.1E-03 1.6E-09 1.2E+05 1.3E-02 1.OE-07     11.4          61.9
  Fv4-IgG1      9.8E+05 9.5E-04 9.7E-10 1.4E+06 3.7E-02 2.6E-08     38.8          27.3
5
           The ratio of affinity (KD) at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 for each antibody was calculated.                    The
  KD ratio, which indicates the pH-dependent binding to SR344, was 1.6, 0.7, 61.9, and 27.3 for
  WT-IgG1, H54/L28-IgG1, H170/L82-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1, respectively.                             In addition, the ratio
  of dissociation rate (kd) at pH 5.8 and pH 7.4 for each antibody was calculated.                    The kd ratio,
3 which indicates the pH-dependent dissociation rate for SR344, was 2.9, 2.0, 11.4, and 38.8 for
  WT-IgG1, H54/L28-IgG1, H170/L82-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1, respectively.                             Thus, it was
  confirmed that H170/L82-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1 demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, while the
  conventional antibodies WT-IgG1 and H54/L28-IgG1 hardly exhibit the ability.                         In addition,

                                                   104
   since the affinity (KD) of these antibodies at pH 7.4 was nearly equal, their ability to bind to
   SR344 in the plasma was thought to be equivalent.
   In Vivo Pharmacokinetics Test Using Mice
 5        The pharmacokinetics of SR344 and the anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody were evaluated
   following administration of SR344 (human IL-6 receptor, prepared in Example 1) only or
   simultaneous administration of SR344 and the anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody to mice that do
   not express the human IL-6 receptor (C57BL/6J; the anti-human IL-6 receptor antibodies do not
   bind to the mouse IL-6 receptor).     An SR344 solution (5 pig/mL) or a mixed solution containing
 0 SR344 and the anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody (5 ptg/mL and 0.1 mg/mL, respectively) was
   administered into a caudal vein by single-dose administration at 10 mL/kg.      Since the
   anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody was present in an adequate excess amount relative to SR344,
   it was thought that nearly all of the SR344 molecules were bound by the antibody.       Blood
   samples were collected at 15 minutes, 2 hours, 8 hours, 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 7 days, 14
 5 days, 21 days, and 28 days after administration.    The collected blood samples were immediately
   centrifuged for 15 minutes at 15,000 rpm and 4'C to obtain the plasma.      The plasma separated
   was stored in a freezer set to -20'C or lower until the time of measurement.    Above-described
   WT-IgG1, H54/L28-IgG1, H170/L82-IgG1, and Fv4-IgG1 were used as the anti-human IL-6
   receptor antibodies.
 0
   Measurement of Anti-Human IL-6 Receptor Antibody Plasma Concentration by ELISA
          The concentration of human IL-6 receptor antibody in mouse plasma was measured by
   ELISA.     Anti-human IgG (7-chain specific) F(ab')2 antibody fragment (Sigma) was dispensed
   onto a Nunc-ImmunoPlate MaxiSorp (Nalge Nunc International) and allowed to stand
25 overnight at 4'C to prepare anti-human IgG-immobilized plates.       Calibration curve samples
   having plasma concentrations of 0.8, 0.4, 0.2, 0.1, 0.05, 0.025, and 0.0 125 tg/mL, and mouse
   plasma samples diluted 100-fold or more were prepared.       200 pL of 20 ng/mL SR344 was
   added to 100 ptL of the calibration curve samples and plasma samples, and then the samples were
   allowed to stand for 1 hour at room temperature.     Subsequently, the samples were dispensed
30 into the anti-human IgG-immobilized plates, and allowed to stand for 1 hour at room temperature.
   Then, Biotinylated Anti-Human IL-6R Antibody (R&D) was added to react for 1 hour at room
   temperature.     Subsequently, Streptavidin-PolyHRP80 (Stereospecific Detection Technologies)
   was added to react for 1 hour at room temperature, and chromogenic reaction was carried out
   using TMP One Component HRP Microwell Substrate (BioFX Laboratories) as a substrate.
35 After stopping the reaction with 1 N sulfuric acid (Showa Chemical), the absorbance at 450 nm
   was measured by a microplate reader.      The concentration in mouse plasma was calculated from

                                                    105
   the absorbance of the calibration curve using the analytical software SOFTmax PRO (Molecular
   Devices).    The time course of plasma concentration after intravenous administration as
   measured by this method is shown in FIG. 28.
 5 Measurement of SR344 Plasma Concentration by Electrochemiluminescence
         The concentration of SR344 in mouse plasma was measured by electrochemiluminescence.
   SR344 calibration curve samples adjusted to concentrations of 2000, 1000, 500, 250, 125, 62.5,
   and 31.25 pg/mL, and mouse plasma samples diluted 50-fold or more were prepared.            The
   samples were mixed with a solution of Monoclonal Anti-human IL-6R Antibody (R&D)
 0 ruthenium-labeled with Sulfo-Tag NHS Ester (Meso Scale Discovery), Biotinylated Anti-human
   IL-6R Antibody (R&D), and WT-IgG1, and then allowed to react overnight at 37 0 C.           The final
   concentration of WT-IgG1 was 333 ptg/mL, which is in excess of the concentration of
   anti-human IL-6 receptor antibody contained in the samples, for the purpose of binding nearly all
   of the SR344 molecules in the samples to WT-IgG1.         Subsequently, the samples were
 5 dispensed into an MA400 PR Streptavidin Plate (Meso Scale Discovery), and allowed to react
   for 1 hour at room temperature, and washing was performed.         Immediately after Read Buffer T
   (x4) (Meso Scale Discovery) was dispensed, the measurement was performed by the Sector PR
   400 Reader (Meso Scale Discovery).       The SR344 concentration was calculated based on the
   response of the calibration curve using the analytical software SOFTmax PRO (Molecular
 0 Devices).    The time course of SR344 plasma concentration after intravenous administration as
   measured by this method is shown in FIG. 29.
   Effects of pH-Dependent Binding
          With respect to the time course of antibody concentration of WT-IgG1 and H54/L28-IgG1,
25 which do not demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, and Hi 70/L82-IgG 1 and Fv4-IgG 1, which
   demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, the time course of concentration was roughly identical
   for WT-IgG1, H54/L28-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1, while H170/L82-IgG1 was eliminated slightly
   more rapidly.    The data of the time course of plasma concentration was analyzed by the
   pharmacokinetics analysis software WinNonlin (Pharsight).         The half-lives in the plasma of
30 WT-IgG1, H54/L28-IgG1, Fv4-IgG1, and H170/L28-IgG1 were 21.0, 28.8, 26.2, and 7.5 days,
   respectively.
          As described in Example 2, when the antigen is a soluble antigen, an administered
   antibody binds to the antigen in the plasma, and is retained in the plasma in the form of an
   antigen-antibody complex.      Generally, in contrast to extremely long plasma retention time of an
35 antibody (the elimination rate is extremely low) due to the function of FcRn, the plasma
   retention time of an antigen is short (the elimination rate is high).  Thus, an antigen that is

                                                     106
   bound to an antibody has a prolonged plasma retention time similar to that of an antibody (the
   elimination rate is extremely low).     Similarly, when the antigen of humanized IL-6 receptor
   antibody, SR344 (soluble human IL-6 receptor), was administered alone, SR344 was extremely
   rapidly eliminated (plasma half-life: 0.2 days).    However, in the case of concurrent
 5 administration of SR344 with a conventional antibody, WT-IgGl or H54/L28-IgGl, which does
   not demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, the elimination rate of SR344 was considerably
   reduced, and the plasma retention time of SR344 was prolonged (plasma half-life: 5.3 days for
   WT-IgGl, 6.3 days for H54/L28-IgGl).         This is because nearly all of the SR344 molecules
   were bound by the antibodies administered together, and thus SR344 bound by the antibodies
 0 had a prolonged plasma retention time similar to that of the antibody, due to the function of
   FcRn as described above.
          In the case of concurrent administration of SR344 with the Hi 70/L82-IgG 1 or Fv4-IgG 1
   antibody, which demonstrates the pH-dependent binding, the elimination of SR344 was
   significantly rapid (plasma half-life: 1.3 days for H170/L82-IgG1, 0.6 days for Fv4-IgG1), as
 5 compared to the case of concurrent administration with WT-IgG 1 or H54/L28-IgG 1. This
   tendency was particularly prominent for Fv4-IgGl.        Since the affinity of Fv4-IgG1 at pH 7.4 is
   equivalent to or stonger than that of WT-IgG1 and H54/L28-IgGl, it is thought that nearly all of
   the SR344 molecules were bound to Fv4-IgGl.          Even though Fv4-IgGl demonstrates
   equivalent or slightly longer plasma retention and slower elimination compared to WT-IgGl and
 0 H54/L28-IgGl, the elimination of SR344 bound to Fv4-IgGl was extremely rapid.             This can be
   explained by the concept of the present technology shown in FIG. 4.        In the case of
   conventional antibodies that do not demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, an antibody-soluble
   antigen complex is taken up into endosomes by pinocytosis in the plasma, and binds to FcRn
   expressed in endosomes under intraendosomal acidic conditions.         Since the antibody-soluble
25 antigen complex bound to FcRn transfers to the cell surface as it is, and again returns to the
   plasma, the antigen bound to the antibody has a prolonged plasma retention time similar to that
   of the antibody (the elimination is extremely slow).     On the other hand, in the case of antibodies
   that demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, the antigen dissociates from the antibody under
   intraendosomal acidic conditions, and thus only the antibody binds to FcRn and returns again to
30 the plasma.    Since the antigen dissociated from the antibody is degraded in lysosomes without
   returning to the plasma, the elimination of antigen is extremely rapid as compared to the case of
   antibodies that do not demonstrate the pH-dependent binding.       Namely, in the case of
   concurrent administration of SR344 with the WT-IgGl or H54/L28-IgGl antibody, which does
   not demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, the elimination of SR344 is slow to the similar
35 degree as the antibody, since SR344 binds to WT-IgGl or H54/L28-IgGl both in plasma and
   endosomes.     In contrast, in the case of concurrent administration of SR344 with the

                                                     107
   H170/L82-IgG1 or Fv4-IgG1 antibody, which demonstrates the pH-dependent binding, the
   elimination of SR344 is extremely rapid, since SR344 dissociates from the antibody in the
   intraendosomal low-pH environment.        That is, since the H170/L28-IgG1 and Fv4-IgG1
   antibodies, which demonstrate the pH-dependent binding, dissociate from SR344 in the
 5 intraendosomal low-pH environment, the majority of H170/L82-IgG1 or Fv4-IgG1 that has
   returned again to the plasma with FcRn is thought to be not bound to SR344.         Thus, as shown in
   FIG. 4, it was revealed that, by dissociating from an antigen in the intraendosomal low-pH
   environment and returning to the plasma with FcRn without binding to the antigen, an antibody
   that demonstrates the pH-dependent binding can again bind to an antigen in the plasma.         It was
 0 also shown that, by repeating this process, the antibody that demonstrates the pH-dependent
   binding can repeatedly bind to multiple antigens.      This is consistent with the Biacore data
   shown in Example 7, demonstrating that pH-dependent antibodies can repeatedly bind to
   antigens.   Thus, by enhancing the pH-dependent binding of an antibody to an antigen, the
   number of times of repetitive antigen binding can be increased.
 5        When the antigen is a soluble antigen, and the antigen binds to an antibody under plasma
   neutral conditions, but dissociates from the antibody in endosomes and the antibody returns to
   the plasma with FcRn, the antibody can again bind to an antigen under plasma neutral conditions.
   Thus, an antibody that has the ability to dissociate from an antigen under intraendosomal acidic
   conditions can bind to antigens multiple times.     As compared to when an antigen bound to an
 0 antibody does not dissociate from the antibody in endosomes (i.e., the antigen bound to the
   antibody returns to the plasma), if an antigen bound to an antibody dissociates from the antibody
   in endosomes, the plasma elimination rate of the antigen is increased, since the antigen is
   transported to lysosomes and degraded.      Thus, the plasma elimination rate of an antigen can be
   used as an index to determine whether an antibody can bind to the antigen multiple times.
25 Determination of the plasma elimination rate of an antigen can be performed, for example, by
   administering an antigen and an antibody in vivo, and then measuring the plasma antigen
   concentration after the administration, as shown in the Examples.
          An antibody that demonstrates the pH-dependent binding can repeatedly bind to multiple
   antigens in contrast to the case of a conventional antibody that does not demonstrate the
30 pH-dependent binding.      Thus, the amount of antibody administered can be considerably
   reduced, and the administration intervals can be greatly prolonged.
          The repetitive binding to multiple antigens of this mechanism is based on pH-dependent
   antigen-antibody reaction.    Thus, regardless of the type of antigen, if an antibody demonstrating
   the pH-dependent binding that binds to an antigen at pH 7.4 of plasma but dissociates from the
35 antigen at intraendosomal acidic pH can be constructed, then such an antibody can repeatedly
   bind to multiple antigens.   Accordingly, the present technology is useful in that it can be

                                                108
applied not only to antibodies to the IL-6 receptor, IL-6, and the IL-31 receptor, but generally to
any antibody to any antigen, regardless of the type of antigen.

                                                  109
CLAIMS:
       1.   A method for improving the pharmacokinetics of an antigen-binding molecule by
impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to
that at pH 7.4.
       2.   A method for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding for an
antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding
molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4.
       3.   A method for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an
antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding
molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4.
       4.   A method for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound
antigen-binding molecule by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding
molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4.
       5.   A method for releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an
antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell by impairing
the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH
7.4.
       6.   A method for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate an
antigen in plasma by impairing the antigen-binding activity of the antigen-binding molecule at
pH 5.8 as compared to that at pH 7.4.

                                                   110
       7.    The method of any one of claims I to 6, wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value,
defined as the ratio of KD for the antigen at pH 5.8 and KD for the antigen at pH 7.4, is 2 or
higher.
       8.    The method of any one of claims I to 6, wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is
10 or higher.
       9.    The method of any one of claims I to 6, wherein the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value is
40 or higher.
       10.  A method for improving the pharmacokinetics of an antigen-binding molecule by
substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or inserting at
least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       11.  A method for increasing the number of times of antigen-binding for an
antigen-binding molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule
with histidine, or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       12.  A method for increasing the number of antigens that can be bound by an
antigen-binding molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule
with histidine, or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       13.  A method for dissociating within a cell an antigen from an extracellularly-bound
antigen-binding molecule by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule
with histidine, or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       14.  A method for releasing an antigen-binding molecule, which has been bound to an
antigen and internalized into a cell, in an antigen-free form to the outside of the cell, by

                                                   111
substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with histidine, or inserting at
least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       15.   A method for increasing the ability of an antigen-binding molecule to eliminate an
antigen in plasma by substituting at least one amino acid of the antigen-binding molecule with
histidine, or inserting at least one histidine into the antigen-binding molecule.
       16.   The method of any one of claims 10 to 15, wherein the histidine substitution or
insertion increases the KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value, defined as the ratio of the antigen-binding
activity at pH 5.8 and the antigen-binding activity at pH 7.4, as compared to the
KD(pH5.8)/KD(pH7.4) value before the histidine substitution or insertion.
       17.   The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the antigen-binding molecule has
an antagonistic activity.
       18.   The method of any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the antigen-binding molecule
binds to a membrane antigen or a soluble antigen.
       19.   The method of any one of claims I to 18, wherein the antigen-binding molecule is an
antibody.
                                  Chugai Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    1/29
FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    2/29
FIG. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    3/29
FIG. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    4/29
FIG. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    5/29
FIG. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    6/29
FIG. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    7/29
FIG. 7

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    8/29
FIG. 8

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    9/29
FIG. 9

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     10/29
FIG. 10

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     11/29
FIG. 11

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     12/29
FIG. 12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     13/29
FIG. 13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     14/29
FIG. 14

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     15/29
FIG. 15

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     16/29
FIG. 16

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     17/29
FIG. 17

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     18/29
FIG. 18

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     19/29
FIG. 19

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     20/29
FIG. 20

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     21/29
FIG. 21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     22/29
FIG. 22

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     23/29
FIG. 23

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     24/29
FIG. 24

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     25/29
FIG. 25

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     26/29
FIG. 26

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     27/29
FIG. 27

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     28/29
FIG. 28

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     29/29
FIG. 29

                                                    1
<removed-date>
                                          SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   CHUGAI SEIYAKU KABUSHIKI KAISHA
              <120> ANTIGEN-BINDING MOLECULE CAPABLE OF BINDING TO TWO OR MORE
              ANTIGEN MOLECULES REPEATEDLY
              <130>   C1-A0801Y2P
              <140>   PCT/JP2009/057309
<removed-apn>
              <141>   2009-04-10
              <150>   JP 2008-104147
              <151>   2008-04-11
              <150>   JP 2008-247713
              <151>   2008-09-26
              <150>   JP 2009-068744
              <151>   2009-03-19
              <160>   70
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.4
              <210>   1
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400> 1
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser Asp Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115

                                                  2
<removed-date>
              <210>   2
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   2
<removed-apn>
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser Glu Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
                          100                 105
              <210>   3
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400> 3
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala His Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95

                                                  3
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   4
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   4
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His His
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala His Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr His Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Val Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala Met Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   5
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   5
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30

                                                  4
<removed-date>
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   6
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   6
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln His Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
                          100                 105
              <210>   7
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence

                                                  5
<removed-date>
              <400>   7
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
                          100                 105
              <210>   8
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   8
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu His His Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly His Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
                          100                 105
              <210>   9
              <211>   448

                                                  6
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   9
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Arg Pro Ser Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Thr Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Thr Ser Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Thr Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Ser Arg Val Thr Met Leu Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Arg Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270

                                                  7
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
<removed-apn>
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   10
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   10
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Thr Ser Arg Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80

                                                  8
<removed-date>
              Glu Asp Ile Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Gly Asn Thr Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   11
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   11
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser Asp Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Val Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110

                                                  9
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   12
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   12
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser Glu Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Gly Asn Ser Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
                          100                 105
              <210>   13
              <211>   1404
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized nucleotide sequence
              <400> 13
              atgggatgga gctgtatcat cctcttcttg gtagcaacag ctacaggtgt ccactcccag    60
              gtccaactgc aggagagcgg tccaggtctt gtgaaaccta gcgagaccct gagcctgacc   120
              tgcgccgtgt ctggctactc aattagcgac gatcatgcct ggagctgggt tcgccagcca   180
              cctggagaag gtcttgagtg gattggatac attagttata gtggaatcac aaactataat   240
              ccatctctca aaggcagagt gacaatatcg agagacacca gcaagaacca gttcagcctg   300
              aaactcagca gcgtgacagc cgccgacacc gcggcttatt attgtgcaag atccctagct   360
              cggactacgg ctatggacta ctggggtgaa ggcaccctcg tcacagtctc ctcagcctcc    20

                                                  10
<removed-date>
              accaagggcc catcggtctt ccccctggca ccctcctcca agagcacctc tgggggcaca   480
              gcggccctgg gctgcctggt caaggactac ttccccgaac cggtgacggt gtcgtggaac   540
              tcaggcgccc tgaccagcgg cgtgcacacc ttcccggctg tcctacagtc ctcaggactc   600
              tactccctca gcagcgtggt gaccgtgccc tccagcagct tgggcaccca gacctacatc   660
              tgcaacgtga atcacaagcc cagcaacacc aaggtggaca agaaagttga gcccaaatct   720
<removed-apn>
              tgtgacaaaa ctcacacatg cccaccgtgc ccagcacctg aactcctggg gggaccgtca    780
              gtcttcctct tccccccaaa acccaaggac accctcatga tctcccggac ccctgaggtc   840
              acatgcgtgg tggtggacgt gagccacgaa gaccctgagg tcaagttcaa ctggtacgtg   900
              gacggcgtgg aggtgcataa tgccaagaca aagccgcggg aggagcagta caacagcacg    960
              taccgtgtgg tcagcgtcct caccgtcctg caccaggact ggctgaatgg caaggagtac   1020
              aagtgcaagg tctccaacaa agccctccca gcccccatcg agaaaaccat ctccaaagcc   1080
              aaagggcagc cccgagaacc acaggtgtac accctgcccc catcccggga tgagctgacc   1140
              aagaaccagg tcagcctgac ctgcctggtc aaaggcttct atcccagcga catcgccgtg   1200
              gagtgggaga gcaatgggca gccggagaac aactacaaga ccacgcctcc cgtgctggac   1260
              tccgacggct ccttcttcct ctacagcaag ctcaccgtgg acaagagcag gtggcagcag   1320
              gggaacgtct tctcatgctc cgtgatgcat gaggctctgc acaaccacta cacgcagaag   1380
              agcctctccc tgtctccggg taaa                                          1404
              <210>   14
              <211>   321
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized nucleotide sequence
              <400> 14
              gacatccaga tgacccagag cccaagcagc ctgagcgcca gcgtgggtga cagcgtgacc     60
              atcacctgtc aagccagcca ggacatcagc agttacctga attggtacca gcagaagcca   120
              ggaaaggctc cagagctgct gatctactac ggctccgaac tgcactctgg tgtgccaagc   180
              agattcagcg gtagcggtag cggtaccgac ttcaccttca ccatcagcag cctcgaggca    240
              gaggacgccg ctacctacta ctgcgggcag ggtaaccggc ttccatacac gttcggccaa   300
              gggaccaagg tggaaatcga a                                             321

                                                    11
<removed-date>
              <210>   15
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   16
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially syntheisized primer sequence
              <400> 16
              ttcccaccag cctgtccgcc tctg                                    24
              <210>   17
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially syntheisized primer sequence
              <400> 17
              cgtgaagcca aaggccccac tccc                                    24
              <210>   18
              <211>   32
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially syntheisized primer sequence
              <400> 18
              tagaattcca ccatgctggc cgtcggctgc gc                           32
              <210>   19
              <211>   57
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially syntheisized primer sequence

                                                  12
<removed-date>
              <400> 19
              attgcggccg cttatcagtg gtgatgatga tgatgtggta ccgaagaaga atcttgc        57
              <210>   20
              <211>   1131
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized nucleotide sequence
              <400> 20
              gaattccacc atgctggccg tcggctgcgc gctgctggct gccctgctgg ccgcgccggg    60
              ggcggcgctg gccccggggg gctgccctgc acaggaggtg gcgagaggtg tgctgaccag   120
              tctgccagga gacagcgtga ctctgacctg cccaggggga gagccggaag acaatgccac    180
              tgttcactgg gttctcagga agccagctgt aggctcccac ctcagcagat gggctggcgt   240
              gggaaggagg ctgctgctga ggtcggtgca gctccatgac tctggaaact attcatgcta   300
              ccgggccggc cgcccggctg gaactgtgca cttgctggtg gatgttcccc ccgaggagcc    360
              ccagctctcc tgcttccgga agagccccct cagcaacgtt gtttgtgagt ggggtcctcg   420
              gagcacccca tctccgacga ccaaggctgt gctgttggtg aggaagtttc agaacagtcc   480
              ggccgaagac ttccaggagc cgtgccagta ttcccaggag tcccagaagt tctcctgcca   540
              gttggcagtc ccggagggag acagctcttt ctacatagtg tccatgtgcg tcgccagtag   600
              tgtcgggagc aagctcagca aaactcagac ctttcagggt tgtggaatct tgcagcctga   660
              tccgcctgcc aacatcacag tcactgccgt ggccagaaac ccccgctggc tcagtgtcac   720
              ctggcaagac ccccactcct ggaactcatc tttctacaga ctacggtttg agctcagata    780
              tcgagctgaa cggtcaaaga cattcacaac atggatggtc aaggacctcc agcatcactg   840
              tgtcatccac gacgcctgga gcggcctgag gcacgtggtg cagcttcgtg cccaggagga   900
              gttcgggcaa ggcgagtgga gcgagtggag cccggaggcc atgggcacgc cttggacaga    960
              atccaggagt cctccagctg agaacgaggt gtccaccccc acgcaggcac ctactactaa   1020
              taaagatgat gataatattc tctccagaga ttctgcaaat gcgacaagcc tcccagtgca   1080
              agattcttct tcggtaccac atcatcatca tcaccactga taagcggccg c            1131
              <210>   21
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>

                                                  13
<removed-date>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   21
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285

                                                  14
<removed-date>
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
<removed-apn>
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   22
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   22
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80

                                                 15
<removed-date>
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380

                                                  16
<removed-date>
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   23
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   23
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175

                                                 17
<removed-date>
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   24
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT

                                                  18
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   24
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Thr Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270

                                                  19
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
<removed-apn>
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   25
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   25
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Arg Asp Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Leu Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60

                                                  20
<removed-date>
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   26
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   26
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Arg Asp Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Glu Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95

                                                  21
<removed-date>
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   27
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   27
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Thr Asp Ile Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Leu Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125

                                                 22
<removed-date>
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   28
              <211>   326
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   28
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175

                                                  23
<removed-date>
              Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   29
              <211>   324
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   29
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95

                                                  24
<removed-date>
              Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Leu Ser Pro
              <210>   30
              <211>   324
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   30
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                 25
<removed-date>
              Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Leu Ser Pro

                                                  26
<removed-date>
              <210>   31
              <211>   326
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   31
<removed-apn>
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              245                 250                 255

                                                  27
<removed-date>
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                              325
              <210>   32
              <211>   324
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   32
              Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn
                              165                 170                 175

                                                  28
<removed-date>
              Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Leu Ser Pro
              <210>   33
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   33
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95

                                                 29
<removed-date>
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400

                                                  30
<removed-date>
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
<removed-apn>
              <210>   34
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   34
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205

                                                  31
<removed-date>
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
<removed-apn>
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
              <210>   35
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   35
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                 32
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320

                                                  33
<removed-date>
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
<removed-apn>
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
              <210>   36
              <211>   445
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   36
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125

                                                 34
<removed-date>
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430

                                                  35
<removed-date>
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   37
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   37
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                                  36
<removed-date>
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
<removed-apn>
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
              <210>   38
              <211>   445
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   38
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45

                                                 37
<removed-date>
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Thr Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350

                                                  38
<removed-date>
              Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
<removed-apn>
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   39
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   39
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Thr Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                 39
<removed-date>
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
              <210>   40
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT

                                                  40
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   40
              His Asp His Ala Trp Ser
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   41
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   41
              His Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro His Leu Gln Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   42
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   42
              Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu Gln Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   43
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   43
              Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Thr Leu Gln Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   44
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial

                                                  41
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   44
              Phe Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ala His Asp His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   45
<removed-apn>
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   45
              Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   46
              <211>   30
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   46
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   47
              <211>   30
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   47
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser
                          20                  25                  30

                                                  42
<removed-date>
              <210>   48
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   48
<removed-apn>
              Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp Ile Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   49
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   49
              Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser Leu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   50
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   50
              Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser Leu Lys
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   51
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   51

                                                  43
<removed-date>
              Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   52
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   52
              Trp Gly Glu Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   53
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   53
              Gln Ala Ser Arg Asp Ile Ser Ser His Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   54
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   54
              Gln Ala Ser Thr Asp Ile Ser Ser His Leu Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   55
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   55

                                                    44
<removed-date>
              Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Leu Ser
              1               5
              <210>   56
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   56
              Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Glu Ser
              1               5
              <210>   57
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   57
              Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr Thr
              1               5
              <210>   58
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   58
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys
                          20
              <210>   59
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence

                                                  45
<removed-date>
              <400>   59
              Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   60
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   60
              Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   61
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   61
              Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   62
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   62
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Lys Leu Leu Lys Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Ser Trp Phe Arg Gln Ser Pro Glu Lys Arg Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Glu Ile Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser Tyr Thr Tyr Tyr Pro Asp Thr Val
                  50                  55                  60

                                                 46
<removed-date>
              Thr Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Glu Met Ser Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Met Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Gly Leu Trp Gly Tyr Tyr Ala Leu Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365

                                                  47
<removed-date>
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
<removed-apn>
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   63
              <211>   213
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   63
              Gln Ile Val Leu Ile Gln Ser Pro Ala Ile Met Ser Ala Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Lys Val Thr Met Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Ser Ser Val Ser Tyr Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Ser Ser Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile Tyr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Thr Ser Asn Leu Ala Ser Gly Val Pro Val Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Ser Gly Thr Ser Tyr Ser Leu Thr Ile Ser Arg Met Glu Ala Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Trp Ser Gly Tyr Pro Tyr Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  48
<removed-date>
              Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
<removed-apn>
                  210
              <210>   64
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   64
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Lys Leu Leu Lys Pro Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser His
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Ser Trp Phe Arg Gln Ser Pro Glu Lys Arg Leu Glu Trp Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Glu Ile Ser Ser Gly Gly Ser Tyr Thr Tyr His Pro His Thr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Gly Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Glu Met Ser Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Met Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Gly Leu Trp Gly His Tyr Ala Leu Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Ser Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190

                                                 49
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
<removed-apn>
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   65
              <211>   213
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>

                                                  50
<removed-date>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   65
              Gln Ile Val Leu Ile Gln Ser Pro Ala Ile Met Ser Ala Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Lys Val Thr Met Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Ser Ser Val Ser Tyr Met
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Ser Ser Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile Tyr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Thr Ser Asn His Ala Ser Gly Val Pro Val Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Ser Gly Thr Ser Tyr Ser Leu Thr Ile Ser Arg Met Glu Ala Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln His Trp Ser Gly His Pro Tyr Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   66
              <211>   213
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400> 66
              Gln Ile Val Leu Ile Gln Ser Pro Ala Ile Met Ser Ala Ser Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                  51
<removed-date>
              Glu Lys Val Thr Met Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Ser Ser Val Ser Tyr Met
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Ser Ser Pro Arg Leu Leu Ile Tyr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Thr Ser His His Ala Ser Gly Val Pro Val Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Ser Gly Thr Ser Tyr Ser Leu Thr Ile Ser Arg Met Glu Ala Glu
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln His Trp Ser Gly His Pro Tyr Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   67
              <211>   456
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   67
              Gln Val Gln Leu Val Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Val Lys Lys Pro Gly Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Lys Val Ser Cys Lys Ala Ser Gly Tyr Thr Phe Thr Gly Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Met His Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp Met
                      35                  40                  45

                                                 52
<removed-date>
              Gly Trp Ile Asn Pro Asn Ser Gly Gly Thr Asn Tyr Ala Gln Lys Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Met Thr Arg Asp Thr Ser Ile Ser Thr Ala Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Glu Leu Ser Arg Leu Arg Ser Asp Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ala Arg Glu Asp Val Val Pro Ala Ala Met Ser Phe Tyr Tyr Gly Met
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Val Trp Gly Arg Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg
                          340                 345                 350

                                                  53
<removed-date>
              Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser
<removed-apn>
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Gly
                  450                 455
              <210>   68
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   68
              Leu Pro Val Leu Thr Gln Pro Pro Ser Val Ser Val Ala Pro Gly Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ala Arg Ile Thr Cys Gly Gly Asn Asn Ile Gly Ser Lys Thr Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Glu Pro Gly Gln Ala Pro Val Leu Val Val Tyr
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Asp Thr Asp Arg Pro Ala Gly Ile Pro Glu Arg Phe Ser Gly Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Ser Gly Asn Thr Ala Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Glu Ala Asp Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Val Trp Asp Ser Ser Thr Asp His
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Val Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Thr Val Leu Gly Gln Pro Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Asn Pro Thr Val Thr Leu Phe Pro Pro Ser Ser Glu Glu Leu Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Asn Lys Ala Thr Leu Val Cys Leu Ile Ser Asp Phe Tyr Pro Gly
                  130                 135                 140

                                                  54
<removed-date>
              Ala Val Thr Val Ala Trp Lys Ala Asp Gly Ser Pro Val Lys Ala Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Glu Thr Thr Lys Pro Ser Lys Gln Ser Asn Asn Lys Tyr Ala Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Tyr Leu Ser Leu Thr Pro Glu Gln Trp Lys Ser His Arg Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Ser Cys Gln Val Thr His Glu Gly Ser Thr Val Glu Lys Thr Val
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Pro Thr Glu Cys Ser
                  210
              <210>   69
              <211>   456
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   69
              Gln Val Gln Leu Val Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Val Lys Lys Pro Gly Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Lys Val Ser Cys Lys Ala Ser Gly Tyr Thr Phe Thr Gly Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              His Met His Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp Met
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Trp Ile Asn Pro Asn Ser Gly Gly Thr Asn Tyr Ala Gln Lys Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Met Thr Arg Asp Thr Ser Ile Ser Thr Ala Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Glu Leu Ser Arg Leu Arg Ser Asp Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Glu Asp Val Val Pro Ala Ala Met Ser Phe Tyr Tyr Gly Met
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Val Trp Gly Arg Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His
                              165                 170                 175

                                                 55
<removed-date>
              Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg
                          340                 345                 350
              Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys Gly
                  450                 455
              <210>   70
              <211>   449

                                                  56
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   70
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Ser Asp Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Ala Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270

                                                 57
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys

