  PATENT                                                 Attorney Docket No.: 06-2045WO
                                     ABSTRACT
          In various embodiments, a user may be prompted to "view changes"
  associated with a document after electing to close the document without having
5 saved.

                         VIEWING FILE MODIFICATIONS
               CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         This application is a continuation of United States Patent Application No.
11/625,508 (U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008-0178117; Attorney
Docket No. 06-2045), filed January 22, 2007 by Dean P. Alderucci, Michael D.
Brinton, Geoffrey M. Gelman, and Gregory P. Manning, which is hereby
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1 shows a prompt according to some embodiments.
Figure 2 shows a prompt according to some embodiments.
Figure 3 shows a prompt according to some embodiments.
Figure 4 shows a prompt according to some embodiments.
Figure 5 shows a prompt according to some embodiments.
Figure 6 shows a process according to some embodiments.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
       I.       Terms
         The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition
of matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like,
unless expressly specified otherwise.
         Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a
process have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term
'process' or a like term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps'
of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.

         The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions
disclosed in this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the
embodiment", "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some
embodiments", "certain embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment"
and the like mean "one or more (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed
invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the
invention, unless expressly specified otherwise.
         A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does
not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another
embodiment (e.g., an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment),
unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean
"including but not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly
specified otherwise.
         The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
         The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything
which may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
         The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of
things (such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or
more of those things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the
phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a
car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a
wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such
phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality
of things.
         Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers
to indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the
quantity indicated by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity

indicated by that numerical term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not
mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover,
e.g., two widgets.
         The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based
only on" and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to
the phrase "based at least in part on".
         The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly
specified otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents
only", unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data
represents a credit card number" describes both "the data represents only a credit
card number" and "the data represents a credit card number and the data also
represents something else".
         The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of
words that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something
that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in
a claim, the clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not
establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning
or scope of the claim.
         The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit
the term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends
data (e.g., instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains
that "instructions" are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the
Internet, and also explains that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the
computer may send over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data
structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions"
and "a data structure" can be "data".
         The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if
two or more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its
own characteristic, and these characteristics can be different from each other but
need not be. For example, the phrase "each of two machines has a respective
function" means that the first such machine has a function and the second such

machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine may or may not
be the same as the function of the second machine.
          The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or
phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e.,
instructions) over the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the
"data" that the computer sends over the Internet.
          Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers
within the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to
specifically include whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and
non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
          Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an
explicit statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such
term / phrase does not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a
different meaning. For example, where a statement renders the meaning of
"including" to be synonymous with "including but not limited to", the mere usage
of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the term "including"
means something other than "including but not limited to".
       II.       Determining
          The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to
determine a price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain
criterion) is used in an extremely broad sense. The term "determining"
encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore "determining" can include
calculating, computing, processing, deriving, investigating, looking up (e.g.,
looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the
like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information),
accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can
include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
          The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing
and the like.

        The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must
be performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does
not imply that an algorithm or process is used.
        The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be
used. For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.

       III.      Forms of Sentences
          Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as
more than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers
one widget as well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that
depends on the first claim, the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to
the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not imply that the first claim covers
only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second claim covers only
one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than one
widget).
          When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is
used as an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly
specified otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish
that particular feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by
a similar term. For example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to
distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal
numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other
characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the
ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate
that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not
indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3)
does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not
define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For
example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the
term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
          When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more
than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used
in place of the single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the
functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be
possessed by more than one device / article (whether or not they cooperate).

        Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described
herein (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively
be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For
example, a plurality of computer-based devices may be substituted with a single
computer-based device. Accordingly, the various functionality that is described as
being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed
by a single device / article.
        The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described
may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described
but are not explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other
embodiments need not include the described device itself, but rather can include
the one or more other devices which would, in those other embodiments, have such
functionality / features.
      IV.       Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
        Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be
taken as limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s). An
Abstract has been included in this application merely because an Abstract of not
more than 150 words is required under 37 C.F.R. § 1.72(b).
        The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the
disclosure in any way.
        Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and
are not intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s)
are widely applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the
disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed
invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and alterations, such as
structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although particular
features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or
more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such

features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or
drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly specified
otherwise.
        No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the
present application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the
invention claimed herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein,
except where it is either expressly stated to be so in this specification or expressly
recited in a claim.
        All words in every claim have the broadest scope of meaning they would
have been given by a person of ordinary skill in the art as of the priority date. No
term used in any claim is specially defined or limited by this application except
where expressly so stated either in this specification or in a claim.
        The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and
possible uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
        The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the
invention(s) which must be present in all embodiments.
        Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be
in continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified
otherwise. On the contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as
necessary or desirable, and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the
time. For example, a machine in communication with another machine via the
Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for long period of time (e.g.
weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in communication with each other
may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
        A description of an embodiment with several components or features does
not imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the
contrary, a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide
variety of possible embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise
specified explicitly, no component / feature is essential or required.
        Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed
in a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in

different orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be
explicitly described or claimed does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the
steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be
performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be performed
simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously
(e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration
of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process
is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not
imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
         Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that
does not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required.
Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include
other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise
specified explicitly, no step is essential or required.
         Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other
products or methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one
business model to another business model. Such interaction may be provided to
enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
         Although a product may be described as including a plurality of
components, aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not
indicate that any or all of the plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various
other embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other
products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
         An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified
otherwise. Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be
numbered) does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any
category, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list
"a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of the three items of

that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items
of that list are comprehensive of any category.
         An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
imply that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted
for each other.
         All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
       V.         Computing
         It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately
programmed general purpose computers, special purpose computers and
computing devices. Typically a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one
or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal processors) will receive
instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those instructions,
thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or
more scripts.
         A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
(CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like
devices or any combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level
multiprocessing / multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked
Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
         Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g.,
a processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to
perform the process.
         Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of
data) may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer
readable media) in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired
circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of, or in combination with,
some or all of the software instructions that can implement the processes of various

embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and software may be used
instead of software only.
         The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of
the same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data
(e.g., instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor
or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited
to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile
media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory.
Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM), which typically
constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper
wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the
processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves, light waves
and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio frequency
(RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk,
magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical
medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip
or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from
which a computer can read.
         Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying
data (e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i)
delivered from RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission
medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted according to numerous formats,
standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, BluetoothTM,
and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy or
prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
         Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer
readable medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer
readable medium can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements
which are appropriate to perform the method.

         Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
the described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer /
computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the
described process.
         Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not
indicate that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer
readable medium storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable
medium storing a program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform
some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
         Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary
skill in the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be
readily employed, and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be
readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases
presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of
information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those
suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any
illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of
ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries
can be different from those described herein. Further, despite any depiction of the
databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases, object-based
models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate the
data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a database
can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In
addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely
from a device which accesses data in such a database.
         Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications
network) with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the
devices directly or indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet,
LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio
channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service providers,
bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of

the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other
computing devices, such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium® or CentrinoTM
processor, that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and
type of devices may be in communication with the computer.
        In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an
embodiment, be practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In
such an embodiment, any functions described herein as performed by the server
computer or data described as stored on the server computer may instead be
performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
        Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some
human intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
      VI.       Continuing Applications
        The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an
enabling description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these
embodiments and / or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but
may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the
benefit of priority of the present application.
        Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for
subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present
application.
      VII.      35 U.S.C. 6 112, paragraph 6
        In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for"
or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that
limitation.
        In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase
"means for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6 does
not apply to that limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function
without recitation of structure, material or acts for performing that function. For

example, in a claim, the mere use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in
referring to one or more steps of the claim or of another claim does not mean that
35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
         With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure,
material or acts described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may
perform additional functions as well as the specified function.
         Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures
that can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to
perform a specified function by executing one or more programs, such as a
program stored in a memory device of that product or in a memory device which
that product accesses. Unless expressly specified otherwise, such a program need
not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that
might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to one of ordinary
skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different
algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design
choice for carrying out the specified function.
         Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified
function in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding
to a specified function includes any product programmed to perform the specified
function. Such structure includes programmed products which perform the
function, regardless of whether such product is programmed with (i) a disclosed
algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that is similar to a
disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
         Where there is recited a means for performing a function hat is a method,
one structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a
general purpose computer) that is programmed and / or configured with
appropriate hardware to perform that function.
Also includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that
function via other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art.

      VIII.      Disclaimer
        Numerous references to a particular embodiment does not indicate a
disclaimer or disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly
references to the description of embodiments which all include a particular feature
does not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include
that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application
shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot
perform".
      IX.        Incorporation By Reference
        Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is
incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present
disclosure, but only for purposes of written description in accordance with 35
U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 1 and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112,
paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe
any term of the present application where the present application, without such
incorporation by reference, would not have failed to provide an ascertainable
meaning, but rather would have allowed an ascertainable meaning for such term to
be provided. Thus, the person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any
way limited by any embodiments provided in the reference
        Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any
endorsement of, ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions,
arguments or characterizations contained in any incorporated patent, patent
application or other document, unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent
application.
      X.         Prosecution History
        In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of
ordinary skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present
application, but not to the prosecution history of any other patent or patent
application, regardless of whether there are other patent applications that are

considered related to the present application, and regardless of whether there are
other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present application.
Some Embodiments
Prompt
As used herein, a prompt may include a message which is presented to a user. The
message may be a question, a warning, an item of information, or any other
message. An example of a prompt is a message asking if the user wishes to save
changes made to a document. A prompt may include user options for responding.
For example, a prompt may include buttons that a user may click in order to
indicate responses to the prompt, such as "yes" or "no". A prompt may include a
window, box, dialog box, are any other area where a message may be displayed to
the user. A prompt may be triggered, launched, or initiated by a program (e.g., by
Microsoft Word), by an operating system, or by any other software. In various
embodiments, buttons on a prompt may themselves include messages. For
example, a button on a prompt may read "view changes", which may serve as a
message to the user telling the user that the user can view alterations to a document
by pressing the button.
Document
As used herein, the term "document" may include a set of data. The data may be
stored as a group or unit. The data may be stored, in computer memory, on a
computer storage medium (e.g., on a compact disc (CD); e.g., on a digital versatile
disc (DVD); e.g., on a floppy disk; e.g., on a universal serial bus (USB) drive; e.g.,
on flash memory), on a server, on a network, or in any other location. The data
making up a document may be stored in one or more locations. For example, a
document may include a first set of data that is stored on a first computer and a
second set of data that is stored on a second computer. A document may be stored
in one or more remote locations. For example, a document may include a first set
of data that is stored on a first computer in Australia, and a second set of data that
is stored on a second computer in Argentina.

A document may include data stored in any suitable form. A document may
include data stored as bits, data stored as bytes, data stored as quantum bits, data
stored as characters, data stored in digital form, data stored in analog form, and
data stored in any other form. A document may include data on a printed page,
such as words on a printed page. A document may include data stored in
compressed form. A document may include data stored in encrypted form.
In various embodiments, a set of data may be part of two or more documents. For
example, a single image may be used in more than one document. The image may
be stored in only a single location. As another example, set of data may form a
document in its own right, while also being a subset of a larger set of data, the
larger set of data also forming a document. For instance a first set of data may
represent a modified version of a second set of data, yet may be stored in
association with the second set of data as part of a larger set of data. The first set
of data may thereby make up one document. The second set of data may make up
another document. The union of the first set of data and the second set of data may
make up a third document.
In various embodiments, data that makes up a document may be delineated from
data that does not make up the document. As used herein, a "document tag" may
include data which defines what data is in a particular document. For example, a
document tag may specify a range of memory addresses in a computer memory
such that all memory addresses falling within the specified range are understood to
contain data that is part of the same document. A document tag may or may not
itself form part of a document, in various embodiments. In various embodiments,
a document tag may include data other than data that defines what data is in a
particular document. For example, a document tag may include (a) data that
defines what data is in a particular document, and (b) data that indicates what
program should be used for interpreting the data in the document (e.g., Microsoft
Excel, e.g., Microsoft Excel).

Copies of a document
In various embodiments, there may exist a copy of a document. If a first document
comprises a first set of data, a copy of the first document may comprise a second
set of data. The second set of data may be stored in a separate location that that of
the first set of data. For example, the first set of data may be stored in the random
access memory of a computer, while the second set of data may be stored on the
hard drive of the computer. Although the second set of data may be stored in a
different location from the location of the first set of data, the second set of data
may be similar to the first set of data. For example, the first set of data and the
second set of data may represent the exact same text characters. As another
example, the first set of data and the second set of data may include the same
sequence of bits. The second set of data may make up a second document. In
various embodiments, a third document may be made up of the first document and
the second document.
In various embodiments, a first document and a second document which is a copy
of the first document may comprise the same set of data. For example, the data
making up a first document may be stored in the same memory locations as are the
data making up a second document. In various embodiments, a first document and
a second document which is a copy of the first document may comprise
overlapping sets of data. For example, a first document may comprise a first and
second set of data, while a copy of the first document may comprise a second set of
data and a third set of data.
Versions of a document
In various embodiments, there may exist a version of a document. If a document
comprises a first set of data, a version of the document may comprise a second set
of data. The second set of data may make up a second document. The second set
of data may be stored in a separate location that that of the first set of data. For
example, the first set of data may be stored in the random access memory of a
computer, while the second set of data may be stored on the hard drive of the
computer. Although the second set of data may be stored in a different location

from the location of the first set of data, the second set of data may be similar to
the first set of data. For example, the second set of data may represent a number of
characters that are also represented by the first set of data.
In various embodiments, a first document and a second document which is a
version of the first document may comprise overlapping sets of data. For example,
a first document may comprise first and second sets of data, while a second
document may comprise first and third sets of data.
In various embodiments, a version of a first document may be a second document
which was created as a copy of the first document at some prior point in time. For
example, user might be using a word processing program. The user might save a
copy of the document he is working on. He may then continue to add text to the
document. The saved copy may thus represent a version (e.g., a prior version) of
the document that the user is presently working on.
Data displayed versus data stored
A document may include data as it is stored as well as data as it is displayed. For
example, a document may include a set of text characters that are displayed for
human perception (e.g., on a computer monitor) as well as a binary representation
of the same text characters. As another example, a document (e.g., an image) may
include a set of colored pixel elements as well a binary representation of the colors
to be displayed at different pixel elements.
Various embodiments contemplate a file, document, or other set of data that can be
altered. The alterations may occur using a program, such as a word processing
program, a spreadsheet program, a drawing program, a database program, an
editing program, a program for composing emails, an image processing program, a
program for composing and arranging music, a program for sharing documents, or
any other program. Exemplary documents include Microsoft Word documents,
WordPerfect documents, Microsoft Excel documents, and so on. Exemplary

programs include Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint,
Microsoft Access, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Outlook, and Twiki.
Alterations to a document may include: (a) adding or removing text; (b) adding or
removing blank characters, such as spaces, carriage returns, tabs, and other blank
characters; (c) adding or removing tables; (d) changing formatting, such as
margins, fonts, text sizes, line spacing, highlighting, outline numbering,
indentation, or any other formatting; (e) changing colors, such as the fill colors in
shapes, the colors of cells in spreadsheets, the colors of cells in tables, the color of
text, or any other colors; (f) adding or removing shapes (e.g., circles, rectangles,
triangles, lines, arrows, and other shapes), including shapes used in drawing
programs, including shapes used in slide presentations, including shapes used in
word processing documents; (g) adding or removing charts, tables, graphs,
pictures, symbols, or other graphics; (h) changing the position of text; (i) changing
the position of shapes; (j) changing the position of charts, tables, graphs, pictures,
symbols, or other graphics; (k) changing the size of shapes; (1) changing the size of
charts, tables, graphs, pictures, symbols, or other graphics; (m) changing the
orientation of shapes, charts, tables, graphs, pictures, symbols, or other graphics;
and any other alterations.
As used herein, the term "save" may include a process of creating a copy or a
version of a document. For example, a computer may save a document which
comprises a first set of data by creating a second set of data which is the same as
the first set of data but which is stored in a different location than is the first set of
data. In various embodiments, a computer may save a document which comprises
a first set of data stored in random access memory by creating a second set of data
which is stored on the hard drive of the computer. In various embodiments, a
computer may save a copy of a document which comprises a first set of data stored
in a relatively more temporary area by creating a second set of data which is stored
in a relatively more permanent area. In various embodiments, two versions of a
document may exist. One version may comprise a more recently altered version,
such as a version to which text has been recently added. In various embodiments,

a save operation may include destroying the older version of a document and
replacing it with the recently altered version. As will be appreciated, there may be
any number of implementations the process of saving, and no particular description
of saving described herein is intended to be limiting.
Opening and editing a document
In various embodiments, a user may open a document in order to make alterations
to the document. The user may indicate a desire to open a document, for example,
by using a computer mouse to double-clock on an icon representing the document,
by typing the name of the document at a command line, by selecting the name of
the document from a within menu system (e.g., using the "File" menu "Open"
option in Microsoft Word), or using any other method of opening a document.
The document selected for opening may include a first set of data stored at a first
location. For example, the document selected for opening may include a first set
of data that is stored on the hard drive of a computer. Once the document is
opened, the first set of data may remain stored at the same location. However, a
copy of the document may be created. The copy of the document may include a
second set of data that is stored at a second location. The second set of data may
be initially the same as the first set of data (e.g., the second set of data may
comprise the same sequence of bits as does the first set of data; e.g., the second set
of data may represent the same sequence of characters as does the first set of data).
The second location may reside on an accessible medium, such as on random
access memory. Thus, after a document has been opened, there may exist two
versions of the document. One version may be the document as it was when it was
opened. This version may be stored on the hard drive of a computer. Another
version may be the document as it is currently being viewed and edited by a user.
The second version may be stored in random access memory, or in some other
rapidly accessible medium. In various embodiments, these two versions of the
document may be considered to be part of the same document.

Once a document has been opened, a first version may reside in a first location,
while a second version may reside in a second location. The first version may
represent the document at the time it was opened. A user may then proceed to alter
the second version. A user may alter the second version by providing instructions
to the computer. The user may provide instructions through such actions as typing,
moving and clicking a mouse, or otherwise providing computer inputs or other
inputs. Note that the act of pressing a key or clicking a mouse may itself be an
instruction. A user need not necessarily spell out an instruction in order to alter a
version of a document. As desired, a user may "save" the altered second version.
When the user saves these alterations, the data making up the second version may
be copied to another storage location, such as to the hard drive of the computer,
thus creating a third version of the document. The first version of the document
may be erased. In some embodiments, the data for the third version of the
document may simply by used to overwrite the data for the first version of the
document. Thus, in various embodiments, the third version of the document may
replace the first version of the document. In various embodiments, data
representing a difference between the altered second version and the first version
of the document may be stored. Thus, the second version may be reproducible
using the stored first version of the document together with the data representing
changes. It will be appreciated that there are many other possible ways for
implementing a "save" operation.
After a "save" operation, two versions of a document may again exist. The version
now stored in a first location (e.g., in a relatively more permanent location such as
on a computer hard drive) may represent the originally opened version plus any
alterations made to that version up until the time of the save operation. The
version now stored in a second location (e.g., in a relatively more accessible
location such as in random access memory) may represent the version stored in the
first location plus any alterations made since the time of the most recent save
operation. At the time of a save operation, both versions of the document may be
identical, since a user may not have made any alterations yet to the version stored
in the second location. Thus, in various embodiments, after a save operation, a

user may "close" a document. When a user closes a document, one of the two
versions of the document in existence may be destroyed. For example, a version of
the document comprising data stored in a relatively accessible location (e.g., in
random access memory) may be destroyed. The destruction of the version may not
result in any loss of information, however, since an identical version of the
document may remain stored in a relatively more permanent location (e.g., on a
computer hard drive).
Close operations may be initiated in a number of ways. A user may use a mouse to
click a specially marked button that is associated with a document. For example, a
user may click an "x" in the top right hand corner of a screen which is displaying
the contents of a document in order to close the document. As another example, a
user may access a menu of a program being used to view and alter the document.
Such programs may include Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel, for example.
Within the menu, a user may select a "close" option. As another example, a user
may close an entire program (e.g., Microsoft Word) which is being used to view
and alter a document. In closing the program, the user may be indirectly closing
the document. As another example, a user may shut down a computer which is
being used to view and alter a document. The user may thereby be indirectly
closing the document. It will be appreciated that close operations may be initiated
in various other ways. In various embodiments, close operations may happen
without the request of a user. For example, a second program may force the
closure of a first program that is being used to view and alter a document. As
another example, a computer may automatically initiate a shut-down.
A save operation need not only occur at the behest of a user. A save operation may
occur automatically. For example, a computer may be operative to automatically
perform a save operation on a document every 10 minutes. Automatic saving may
help to avoid the loss of alterations made by a user should a loss of power occur
(e.g., thus destroying a version of a document in the random access memory of a
computer).

Discarding a document
As used herein, discarding a document may include destroying data making up the
document, allowing data which makes up the document to become overwritten
(e.g., with data describing another document), allowing data making up the
document to be lost, removing reference to the location of the data making up the
document (e.g., a document may be effectively discarded if the computer storing
the document no longer has any indication of where in computer memory the
document is stored), removing access to the data making up the document, or any
other way of removing a document. It will be understood that a version or a copy
of a document may be discarded in a similar fashion.
In various embodiments described herein, when a user decides not to save a
version of a document, the user may be effectively discarding that version of the
document. In various embodiments, when a user decides to save a version of a
document, the user may be effectively discarding the previously saved version of
the document. For example, saving a second version of a document may cause a
first version of the document to be overwritten.
Reference is now made to figure 6, which describes processes according to various
embodiments. Processes described in figure 6 may be performed by any suitable
device, such as by a computer, a series of computers, a server, a computer and a
server, a mobile computing device, and any other capable device.
A user may be in the midst of viewing or altering a document. At step 614, an
instruction to close the document may be received. The instruction may be given
by the user, may be given automatically (e.g., by a program running in the
background), or may be given by any other means. At step 618, a comparison may
be performed between a first version of the document and a second version of the
document. The second version of the document may represent a version stored in a
readily accessible medium (e.g., in random access memory) and also may represent
a version that is currently displayed for the user. The first version of the document
may represent a version stored in a more permanent medium, such as on a

computer hard drive. Through the process of comparison, it may be determined
whether there are differences between the first version of the document and the
second version of the document.
The first version and the second version may be compared in a number of ways. In
various embodiments, a first set of data making up the first version of the
document is understood to have a particular order. For example, the data is
ordered according to the memory addresses in which the data is stored. Thus, for
example, data stored in addresses with low numbers is understood to come before
data stored in memory addresses with higher numbers. Similarly, a second set of
data making up the second version of the document is understood to have a
particular order. The first and second versions of the documents may thus be
compared by proceeding element by element (e.g., bit by bit; e.g., byte by byte;
e.g., character by character; e.g., pixel by pixel) through the first set of data and
through the second set of data. The first data element of the first set of data may be
compared with the first data element of the second set of data. Then the second
data element of the first set of data may be compared with the second data element
of the second set of data. Then the third data element of the first set of data may be
compared with the third data element of the second set of data. If, after all data
elements are considered, there are no differences between the first set of data and
the second set of data, then the versions of the document may be considered to be
the same. However, if there are differences between the first set of data and the
second set of data, such differences may be recorded. For example, where two
compared data elements are different, a copy of both the first and second data
elements may be stored in a separate location in computer memory. Further, the
position of such data elements within their respective data sets may be noted. This
may allow for a future listing of all differences between the first version of the
document and the second version of the document, as well as for an indication of
the position within each documents (e.g., the page number; e.g., the line number;
e.g., the cell reference; e.g., the character number; e.g., the pixel coordinates) that
the differences occur.

In various embodiments, existing functions may be used to compare documents.
For example, functions native to Microsoft Word may be used for comparing
documents.
In various embodiments, an explicit comparison need not be performed between
the first version and the second version. In various embodiments, the second
version of the document may comprise the same set of data that makes up the first
version of the document, plus a second set of data describing differences between
the second version of the document and the first version of the document. This
may be an efficient way to store the second version, for example. Thus, a
comparison between the first version and the second version of the document may
require reference only to the second set of data. By reference to the second set of
data, the existence of any differences may be deduced. Further, the exact nature of
such differences may be deduced. If the second set of data is the empty set, then it
may be assumed that the first version of the document and the second version of
the document are the same.
At step 622, it may be determined whether the first version and the second version
of the document are the same. If the two versions are the same, then the second
version may be safely destroyed without loss of information. Thus, at step 626, the
second version of the document is destroyed. In various embodiments, the second
version of the document need not be explicitly destroyed. For example, power
may be removed from the memory storing the second version, thus causing the
data making up the second version of the document to be lost. As another
example, though the second version of the document may not be explicitly
destroyed, the computer may allow that the memory locations storing the data of
the second version to become overwritten, such as by other programs.
If the first version and the second version are not the same, a prompt may be
displayed. Displaying a prompt may correspond with step 630. The prompt may
ask the user whether the user wishes to save changes. The prompt may include
options for the user to select. Such options may include a "yes" option, a "no"

option, a "cancel" option, and a "view changes" option. It will be understood that,
in various embodiments, alternative words may be used. For example, the word
"affirmative" may be used in place of "yes", the word "negative" in place of no,
and the words "never mind" in place of "cancel". Various alternatives to "view
changes" may also be listed. Alternatives to the word "view" may include: (a)
"view"; (b) "show"; (c) "list"; (d) "enumerate"; (e) "recite"; (f) "describe"; (g)
"indicate"; (h) "preview"; (i) "display"; (j) "feature"; (k) "point out"; (1)"specify";
(m) "convey"; and any other suitable alternatives. Alternatives to the word
"changes" may include: (a) "changes"; (b) "change" (e.g., if there is only one
change); (c) "alterations"; (d) "differences"; (e) "modifications"; (f) "additions";
(h) "subtractions"; (i) "corrections"; (j)"variances"; and any other suitable
alternatives. It will be understood that words may be used in the singular or in the
plural, in various embodiments (e.g., "change"; e.g., "changes"). It will be
understood that more or less than two words may be used to describe an option,
that an option may be described by icons, graphics, shading, or other visual
indicators, that an option may be described by audio messages (e.g., a voice may
prompt a user as to whether a user would like to "save changes", "discard
changes", "view changes", or "cancel"), or that an option may be described in any
other suitable fashion.
A prompt may include a dialog box, such as those which may be generated in
Windows programs using Visual Basic. An example of a prompt according to
some embodiments is shown in Figure 1. As will be appreciated, a prompt may
take many other shapes or forms, according to various embodiments.
In various embodiments, options given to a user in conjunction with a prompt may
be clickable or otherwise selectable. For example, in Figure 1, a user may have the
ability to bring his mouse pointer over the box labeled "View Changes" 110. By
clicking on the box, the user may cause to be displayed an indication of changes or
differences between the second version of the document and the first version of the
document. In various embodiments, options may be selected by a user in other

ways. For example, a user may speak his choice, type a key on a keyboard to
indicate his choice, or use any other means of selection.
After the display of the prompt, a user may select the "no" option. In this case, it
may be presumed that the user does not wish to save changes (e.g., the differences
in the second version of the document versus the first version of the document).
Thus, the second version of the document may be destroyed 626, may be allowed
to be lost, etc.
After the display of the prompt, a user may select the "yes" option. In this case, it
may be presumed that the user does wish to save changes. Thus, the user may not
wish to preserve the version of the document which existed prior to the changes,
i.e., the first version. Thus, the first version of the document may be destroyed
638. The second version of the document may then be copied to a more permanent
storage location, such as to a computer hard drive (as in step 642). In various
embodiments, the second version of the document may simply be written over the
first version of the document, thus destroying the first version while copying the
second version. At step 646, the second version of the document may be
destroyed, allowed to be lost, etc. This may occur as a result of the initial request
to close the document at step 614. However, though the second version may be
destroyed, no information from the second version need be lost since a copy has
been made at step 642.
After display of the prompt, a user may select the "cancel" option. In this case, it
may be presumed that the user no longer wishes to close the document. In various
embodiments, the prompt may be removed.
After display of the prompt, a user may select the "view changes" option. This
option may present advantages to the user. The user may not remember if he has
intentionally made any changes to the document or not since the creation of the
second version. If the user has intentionally made changes, then the user would
likely prefer to save those changes. However, if the user has not intentionally

made changes (e.g., the user has accidentally hit a few keys and thereby deleted a
passage from his document), then user would not likely wish to save changes. If
the user does not remember whether or not he has intentionally made changes, then
the user may face a dilemma as to whether or not to save the changes. By selecting
a "view changes" option and then actually seeing an indication of what changes
have been made, the user may be able to make a more informed decision as to
whether or not he would like to save the changes.
Once the user has selected the "view changes" option, the differences between the
second and first versions of the document may be determined 650. As described
herein, such differences may be determined in a number of different ways, in
various embodiments. In various embodiments, such differences may already have
been determined in earlier steps, such as at step 618 when the second version was
compared to the first version.
At step 654, the differences between the second and first versions of the document
may be displayed. The differences may be displayed in a number of different
formats. The differences may be displayed in visual format, may be presented in
audio format, or may be presented in any other fashion. In various embodiments,
exact differences are not necessarily displayed. For example, a summary
indication of differences may be described. For instance, a description of
differences may say, "there has been a paragraph added on page 7". In various
embodiments, a side by side visual comparison of two documents is used to
highlight differences.
After the differences have been displayed to the user, the user may remain with the
option of whether or not to save changes, or whether to "cancel" and thereby
reverse his decision to close the document in the first place. Thus, flow may
proceed back to 634 where the user's next decision is ascertained. However, since
the "view changes" option has already been selected, the option may disappear
from the dialog box.

Figure 2 shows a prompt 200 according to various embodiments. The top portion
of the prompt 205 may represent a typical or default version of a prompt shown
when a user has requested to close a document without having saved alterations.
The bottom portion of the prompt 210 may represent an additional portion that may
be added. The additional portion of the prompt 210 may be added through a
modification of the Microsoft Windows operating system, e.g., through a
modification to the "save" module that is built into the Microsoft Windows
operating system. The additional portion of the prompt may be added using a
patch added to the Microsoft Windows operating system, e.g., using additional
code that interfaces with an applications programming interface (API) of the
Microsoft Windows operating system such as with an API to the "save" module in
the Microsoft Windows operating system. As will be appreciated, in various
embodiments, many additions or modifications may be made to any default prompt
used in conjunction with a save operation. For example, the portion 210 may be
instead added at the side of the default portion 205, on top of the default portion
205, separated from the default portion 205, on top of the default portion 205,
overlapping with the default portion 205, or in any other location. Further, it will
be appreciated that in various embodiments, the portion 210 may be other shapes
and sizes, such as being hexagonal in shape. Button 215, when selected by a user,
may trigger the display of indications of alterations made to the document being
closed.
Figure 3 shows a prompt 300 according to various embodiments. In response to
the prompt, the user has options "yes", "no", "cancel", and "view changes" 310.
On button 310, the two downward pointing angle brackets indicate that the user
can click the button 310 in order to have the changes revealed below.
Figure 4 shows a prompt 400 which is an expanded version of prompt 300
according to various embodiments. The user has pressed the "view changes"
button 310 and now various alterations to the user's document are shown in the
portion of prompt 400 labeled with 415. In figure 4, additions of text are shown
with an underline. For example, "will be" is underlined to show that the text has

been added to the document. Deletions of text are shown in strikethrough. For
example, "are expected to be" is shown in strikethrough to show that "are expected
to be" has been deleted. Line numbers (e.g., "Line 95") have been added for
convenience to show the line of the document on which the change has been made.
Such line numbers do not necessarily appear in the document itself. The portion of
the prompt 415 shows only those lines in the document to which changes have
been made. This may allow more convenient viewing of all the changes.
Deletions and additions of graphics are also shown. For example, at line 210 in the
document, a graphic depicting a logo has been deleted. At the same line, another
graphic depicting the same logo has been added. A scroll bar at the right of portion
210 may allow a user to scroll through to see additional alterations if all cannot fit
at the same time in portion 415. Also in figure 4, the button 310 which had read
"view changes" has now become a button 410 which reads "hide changes". By
clicking or otherwise selecting the "hide changes" button, a user may cause the
portion 415 to disappear.
In various embodiments, portion 415 may allow a user to view an entire document.
The portion 415 may allow a user to view both altered and unaltered parts of a
document. As will be appreciated, various embodiments contemplate other ways
to display the alterations in a document.
Figure 5 shows a prompt 500 according to various embodiments. The prompt
includes portions 505, 540, and 545. Portion 545 shows alterations to the user's
document. Portion 540 provides various user options in the form of clickable or
otherwise selectable buttons. The button labeled "prev change" 515, when clicked,
may direct that the prior alteration to be shown. For example, if the user clicks on
button 515, an alteration to line 63 of the document may be shown. The button
labeled "next change" 520, when clicked, may direct that the next alteration be
shown. For example, when a user clicks button 520, an alteration at line 107 in the
document may be shown. The button labeled "mark change" 525, when clicked,
may direct that alteration or alterations currently shown be noted. The button
labeled "save all marked changes" 535, when clicked, may direct that all

alterations that had previously been marked (e.g., using button 525) be actually
saved. Thus, when button 535 is clicked, a new version of the document may be
stored on the computer's hard disk, with the new document incorporating all
alterations that had been marked with button 525. The button labeled "save
change" 530, when clicked, may direct that the currently visible alteration or
alterations (e.g., the alterations currently visible in portion 545) be saved. Thus,
for example, when button 530 is clicked, a new version of the document is saved
such that the new version incorporates the alteration currently visible in 545.
1. When to display the prompt. A prompt which asks a user whether or not he
    would like to view changes or alterations made to a document may be shown at
    various times. The prompt may also include a question asking the user whether
    or not he would like to save changes made to the document. For example, the
    prompt may ask the user whether he would like to save changes. Following the
    question, the prompt may ask the user whether or not he would like to view the
    changes.
     1.1. When someone tries closing the document without saving. A prompt may
          be shown if a user attempts to close a document without saving. A prompt
          may be shown if a user attempts to close a version of a document that is
          different from another version of the document stored on a computer hard
          drive or on any other relatively long term medium (e.g., on a medium that
          maintains information even in the absence of power). A prompt may be
          shown if a user attempts to close a document and the version of the
          document that the user is currently working on is different from a version
          of the document that is stored in a relatively long term medium (e.g., on
          the computer hard drive). A prompt may be shown if a user attempts to
          close a document and the version of the document that the user is currently
          working on is different from a saved version of the document. A prompt
          may be shown if a user attempts to close a document to which changes
          have been made, without having saved those changes.
     1.2. When someone actually wants to save the document. They can be asked if
          they want to see the changes they are saving. For example, this could be

     an option under the "file" menu, where "save" usually is. A prompt may
     be shown if a user indicates a desire to save a document. For example, a
     user may type the key combination "control+s" in a Microsoft Windows
     environment, or may click on the "file" menu and the "save" option, e.g.,
     in Microsoft Word. A prompt may thereupon appear asking whether the
     use would like to view the changes that he will be saving.
1.3. During an automatic backup. A prompt may be shown during a save
     operation that has been initiated automatically. In various embodiments, a
     document may be automatically saved. Automatic saving may occur
     periodically, such as every five minutes, every 10 minutes, or every hour.
     Automatic saving may serve the purpose of saving alterations to a
     document without requiring that a user remember to do so, so that fewer
     alterations will be lost in the event of a power shut down or similar event.
     When a save operation is automatically initiated, a prompt may be
     generated asking a user whether he would like to view the alterations being
     saved. The user may have a predetermined amount of time to respond to
     the prompt. For example, the user may have 30 seconds to respond to the
     prompt. If the user does not respond, the alterations may be saved
     automatically, in some embodiments. If the user does respond to the
     prompt then the user may select an option to "view changes" or a like
     option. An indication of alterations to the document may then be
     presented. The alterations may be alterations between the version the user
     is currently working on and the version that had previously been saved.
     The alterations may be alterations between the version the user is currently
     working on and the last version that had been automatically saved. In
     various embodiments, a save operation that is initiated automatically may
     include a backup operation.
1.4. When something else forces the document to be closed - e.g., the user
     turns off the computer or the user closes the program. In various
     embodiments, the closure of a document may be initiated or caused by
     events other than a specific request to close the document. In various
     embodiments, a user may request to close a program. For example, a user

     may click an "x" icon in the upper right hand corner of Microsoft Word in
     order to request that the Microsoft Word program be closed (e.g.,
     terminated). Such a request may have the consequence of closing any
     documents currently being displayed, edited, or otherwise in use by the
     program. For example, closing Microsoft Word may have the effect of
     closing any documents currently being edited in Microsoft Word. In
     various embodiments, when there is a request to close a program which is
     being used to view, edit, or otherwise operate on a document, a prompt
     may appear asking a user whether the user would like to view changes
     made to the document.
     In various embodiments, the closure of a document may be initiated or
     caused by a request to shut down a computer (e.g., a personal computer;
     e.g., a handheld computer). For example, a document may be open for
     editing on a computer. When the computer is shut down (e.g., when the
     power to the computer or to one or more components of the computer is
     cut off) then the version of the document currently being worked on by a
     user may be lost or destroyed as an automatic consequence. In various
     embodiments, when a request to shut down a computer has been received,
     a prompt may be displayed asking whether the user would like to view
     changes that have been made to a document (e.g., to a document that is
     currently open). If the user indicates that he does wish to view changes
     (e.g., by clicking on a button on the prompt), then an indication of
     alterations made may be presented to the user. The user may then have the
     opportunity to save the alterations or to not save the alterations. Once the
     user has made his choice, the shutting down of the computer may proceed.
1.5. During an automatic shut down. (E.g., program has encountered an error
     and must close). In various embodiments, a computer may shut down
     automatically. For example, a computer may be set or programmed to shut
     down when it has not been used for more than a predetermined period of
     time. If a document is being edited or otherwise used on the computer,
     then the document may be closed automatically as a consequence of the

        computer shutting down. In various embodiments, when a computer
        initiates a process of shutting down, and a document is open then a prompt
        may be displayed for the user asking the user whether the user wishes to
        view changes made to a document.
2. What are the options to display? When a prompt is displayed, various options
   may be displayed. For example, a prompt may be displayed for the user asking
   the user whether he would like to save changes. The user may then have
   various options to respond to the question.
   2.1. Save Changes, Don't Save Changes, Show Changes. In various
        embodiments, an option available to the user may be to save changes. If
        the user selects this option (e.g., by clicking), then alterations to the
        document the user is working on may be saved. In various embodiments,
        an option available to the user may be to not save changes. If the user
        selects this option, then alterations to the document the user is working on
        may be discarded or allowed to be lost. In various embodiments, an option
        available to the user may be to view the alterations that have been made to
        the document. If the user selects this option, then alteration which have
        been made to the document may be displayed or otherwise presented to the
        user.
   2.2. Receive recommendation. In various embodiments, an option available to
        the user may be to ask for a recommendation (e.g., to ask for a
        recommendation from the computer as to whether or not the user should
        save the changes). If the user selects this option then the computer may
        recommend to the user to either save the alterations or not to save the
        alterations to the document. The computer may also provide an
        explanation. For example, the computer may display a message which
        says that since only one character changed and the added character created
        a misspelling, it was likely the change was made in error and therefore
        should not be saved.
   2.3. View summary information about changes. In various embodiments there
        may be options available to the user to view summary statement or
        statistics about alterations made. A user may have the option to view

        information regarding the number of changes made, the time that changes
        were made, the portion of the document in which changes were made (e.g.,
        "all changes were made on page 4"), and any other descriptive information
        about alterations made.
   2.4. Save changes under a different document name. In various embodiments,
        an option available to the user may be to save changes, but in a separate
        document. If the user selects this option, the version of the document the
        user is currently working on may be saved. However, in various
        embodiments, the version may be saved under a different name. Thus, for
        example, if a user is working on a document called "Market
        Segmentation" then the version of the document that the user is currently
        working on may saved under the name "TempDoc Market Segmentation".
        By saving the document in such a manner, the user may have the option of
        deciding later whether or not to begin working from the previously saved
        version of the document "Market Segmentation" or the document with the
        latest alterations, "TempDoc Market Segmentation."
   2.5. Highlight changes that are to be saved. In various embodiments, an option
        available to a user may be an option to view the changes that are to be
        saved should the user choose to save the changes. This option might cause
        the changes to be highlighted in a view of the document, to be underlined
        in a view of a document, to be shown in strikethrough, or to be shown or
        displayed or presented in any other fashion.
3. What happens when you select "view changes"?
   3.1. You can simply type ok after viewing the changes and then go back to the
        original dialogue box. In various embodiments, a user may select an
        option to view alterations made to a document. Once those alterations
        have been presented, the user may have another option available to him.
        The other option may be labeled "ok", "back" or in some other fashion.
        By selecting this option, the user may return to the original prompt where
        he once again has the option to save or not to save alterations made to the
        document.

   3.2. You can save the changes from the new place, e.g., with a new dialogue
        box. In various embodiments, a user may select an option to view
        alterations made to a documents. A new prompt or dialog box may be
        presented to the user. Within the new prompt or dialog box, the user may
        have the option of saving changes. For example, an option may be labeled
        "accept changes", "save", or with any other pertinent label. The new
        prompt or dialog may also, in various embodiments, include the changes
        that the user had opted to view.
4. How to show the changes. In various embodiments, alterations made to a
   document may be presented in various ways.
   4.1. The two versions of the document may be shown in full. In various
        embodiments, two versions of a document may be shown in full. The first
        version may represent a version currently being worked on, such as a
        version that is stored in random access memory. A second version may
        represent a version that had previously been saved, such as a version
        stored on a computer hard drive. By viewing both documents in full, a
        user may, in principal, be able to deduce the differences between the two
        documents. In some embodiments, the documents may be shown in
        adjacent windows, with like text lined up. In this way, the user may be
        able to scan through both documents in order to look for places where text
        (or other objects) do not correspond perfectly.
   4.2. What was added, and what was deleted may be shown. In various
        embodiments, items that have been added to a document may be indicated.
        For example, a window may display only text, graphics, or other objects
        which have been added to a document. In various embodiments, context
        for the additions may be shown. For example, line and page numbers may
        be shown, surrounding preexisting text may be shown (e.g., text that was
        already there before the changes were added may be shown), and any other
        context may be shown. In various embodiments, items which have been
        deleted from a document may be indicated. For example, a window may
        display only text, graphics, or other objects which have been deleted. For
        deleted items, context may also be shown. For example, the text

     surrounding deleted text may be shown. In various embodiments, added
     or deleted items may be marked in particular ways. Added items may be
     underlined or otherwise marked. Deleted items may be shown in
     strikethrough or otherwise marked.      In various embodiments, when an
     item is moved within a document (e.g., when a paragraph is cut from one
     portion of the document and pasted in another portion of the document),
     the alteration shown to the document may include a deletion and an
     addition. The deletion correspond to the deletion of the item from its
     initial position, and the addition may correspond to the addition of the item
     to its final position.
4.3. A verbal description of the changes. In various embodiments, a verbal
     description of alterations to a document may be made. For example, a
     computer synthesized voice may read the text that has been added to a
     document. A verbal description may include a summary or qualitative
     description. For example, a synthesize voice may say that a graphic has
     been added without specifically describing all shapes and colors within the
     graphic.
4.4. The time the changes were made. In various embodiments, the time of one
     or more alterations may be presented. For example, an indication of a
     sentence that was added to a document may be shown, along with an
     indication of a time and date. The time and date may be shown in a
     different color or font from the sentence itself so as to indicate that the
     indication of the time is not part of the addition.
4.5. Highlights of the changes. In various embodiments, alterations may be
     shown in highlighted form. For example, text that has been added to a
     document may be shown in a block of yellow. As will be appreciated,
     many other methods may be used to distinguish changes. For example,
     underlining, italicization, bolding, changing the font size, changing the
     color, changing the gray scale, or any other suitable method may be used
     for distinguishing changes. Changes of addition or of deletion may be
     distinguished, e.g., with highlighting. I

4.6. Were there any changes made at all? In various embodiments, an
     indication may be provided as to whether there were any alterations made
     to a document. For example, the computer may display a message saying,
     "There were changes," or a message saying, "There were no changes
     made."
4.7. How many changes were made? In various embodiments, an indication
     may be provided as to how many changes were made to a document. The
     number of changes may be determined based on the number of characters
     added. The number of changes may be determined based on the number of
     characters deleted. For example, the number of changes reported may be
     equal to the number of characters added plus the number of characters
     deleted. In various embodiments, the number of changes may be
     determined based on the number of words added. In various
     embodiments, the number of changes may be determined based on: (a) the
     number of words deleted; (b) the number of sentences added; (c) the
     number of sentences deleted; (d) the number of paragraphs added; (e) the
     number of paragraphs deleted; (f) the number of keystrokes made; (g) the
     number of graphics added; (h) the number of graphics deleted; (i) the
     number of formatting changes made; (j) the number of pages added; (k)
     the number of pages deleted; (1) the number of cells modified (e.g., in a
     spreadsheet program); (m) the change in size of the document (e.g., the
     change in the number of bytes required to store the file; e.g., the change in
     the number of characters stored in the file); or based on any other pertinent
     factor. As an example, a computer may display a message which says,
     "Forty changes were made to your document."
4.8. Qualitative differences. In various embodiments, alterations made to a
     document may be described qualitatively.
    4.8.1.   The number of pages before and after the change may be described.
           In various embodiments, an indication may be provided as to the
           proportion of a document that occurs before a change, and the
           proportion of the document that occurs after the change. For example,
           an indication may be provided as to the number of words, paragraphs,

          pages, or cells before a change, and the number of words, paragraphs,
          pages or cells after a change.
    4.8.2. The number of pages there were in the document before the change
          was made, and the number of pages there were in the document after
          the change was made. In various embodiments, the size of a
          document may be described before and after a change. The size of a
          document may be described in terms of words, pages, bytes, bits,
          paragraphs, cells, pixels, frames, or in terms of any other metric.
4.9. Modify the save procedure to add a pane to the dialog box. This way, you
     aren't really modifying code, you are just adding to it. In various
     embodiments, additions of code may be made to the save procedure which
     comes with a computer operating system, such as with Microsoft
     Windows. The additional code may create an extra portion of a prompt.
     The extra portion may be tacked onto a prompt that was hitherto created
     by the operating system. For example, the original prompt of the operating
     system may read, "Would you like to save changes to 'Document X"',
     with available options of "yes", "no", and "cancel". The extra portion may
     be tacked onto the original prompt, such as in a pane adjacent to the
     original prompt. In various embodiments, the additional pane may look
     like the portion indicated as 210 in figure 2.
4.10.       A before and after, or an actual difference. E.g., when showing
     differences in images, you can subtract one pixel value from the other. In
     various embodiments, alterations in an image may be shown by showing
     both before and after versions of the image. In various embodiments, only
     portions of the image that have changed may be shown. For example,
     before and after versions of only 200 pixels out of 1000 pixels in an image
     may be shown. In various embodiments, the results of subtracting one
     image from another may be shown. For example, pixel values (e.g., pixel
     values as represented by numbers, such as 0 through 255) of a first version
     of an image may be subtracted from the pixel values of a second version of
     the image. The resulting difference may be displayed for each pixel. For
     example, a given pixel may have changed from having values of (200, 100

        50) to having values of (100, 90, 30). Note that three values may
        correspond to a pixel, one for each primary color, in various embodiments.
        The difference in the value are thus (100, 10, 20). To illustrate the
        difference, a pixel may display the colors corresponding to (100, 10, 20).
5. Detection of accidental changes. In various embodiments, a determination may
   be made as to whether alterations to a document were most likely made
   accidentally or whether they were most likely made on purpose.
   5.1. If changes appear to have been made accidentally, then recommend not
        saving. In various embodiments, if it is determined that changes made to a
        document were most likely accidental then a recommendation may be
        made that the changes not be saved. For example, a computer may present
        a message which says, "All changes appear to be accidental. Therefore, it
        is recommended that changes not be saved." In various embodiments, if it
        is determined that changes made to a document were most likely
        accidental then a document may be automatically closed without changes
        having saved. For example, a user may indicate a desire to close a version
        of a document even though unsaved changes exist. The computer may
        allow the version of the document to close without presenting a prompt if
        the computer determines that any changes made to the document were
        most likely accidental.
   5.2. If changes appear to have been made on purpose, then recommend saving.
        In various embodiments, if it is determined that alterations made to a
        document were most likely made intentionally, then it may be
        recommended that alterations be saved. For example, a computer may
        display a message saying, "Changes appear to be intentional. Therefore, it
        is recommended that changes be saved."
   5.3. Few key strokes. In various embodiments, if alterations are based on less
        than a predetermined number of user inputs (e.g., less then 3 key strokes;
        e.g., less than two movements of the mouse), then it may be determined
        that changes made to a document were most likely accidental. For
        example, it may assumed that a relatively small number of user inputs

          could have occurred accidentally (e.g., a user could have accidentally hit a
          few keys with his elbow.)
     5.4. Deletion of large portions of text. In various embodiments, if alterations
          consist of deletions of significant portions of a document (e.g., one
          paragraph or more; e.g., one page or more), then such alterations may be
          determined to be accidental. It may be assumed, for example, that a user
          would not intentionally want to delete large portions of a document that he
          had put so much work into.
     5.5. Nonsensical letters. In various embodiments, if alterations consist of
          nonsensical sequences, such alterations may be determined to be
          accidental. For example, the addition of the text, "abfweo" may be
          considered to be accidental since the text does not correspond to any
          known word or name.
     5.6. Improper punctuation. In various embodiments, if alterations consist of
          sequences of improperly punctuated words or sentences, then such
          alterations may be considered to have occurred accidentally.
6. Interacting with the operating system
     6.1. Modifying the API provided by the operating system.
     6.2. Creating an alternate module to the one provided by the API for
          performing the save function.
In various embodiments, a user may save one or more versions of a document.
The versions may represent a progression. For example, each version may
represent a portion of a book that has so far been completed. Each newer version
may incorporate everything from the previous version plus additions. Each version
may represent a version of a document with which a user is satisfied. In various
embodiments, the versions of a document may be ordered in some way. In various
embodiments, versions of a document are ordered according to the dates at which
they were saved (e.g., according to the dates when the versions were last saved;
e.g., according to the dates when the versions were first saved). Different versions
of the document may be named according to a convention. For example, the
document may have a base name, such as "Document X" to which are appended

version designations, such as "vi", "v2", "v3" and so on. Thus, a first version of
the document may be called "Document X vI", a second version may be called
"Document X v2", and so on. The naming of documents may occur automatically.
For example, any time a user indicates he is happy with a version of the document,
the version may be saved and given a new version number. In various
embodiments, a user may be given the option of viewing alterations made to a
version of the document he is currently working on as compared with any of the
prior versions of the document. For example, the user may have the option of
viewing alterations made to a version of "Document X" he is currently working on
since "Document X vI", since "Document X v2" or since any other version of
"Document X". In various embodiments, the user may select in a prompt an
option to "view changes".    The user may then have the further option, either in the
same or in a new prompt, to select the version of the document that will serve as
the basis of comparison for determining alterations.
In various embodiments, a user may be able to select a paragraph or other portion
of a document. For example, a user may be able to put his mouse over a
paragraph. Once a portion of the document has been selected, the user may be able
to view prior versions of that portion of the document. Prior versions of that
portion may include portions corresponding to the selected portions, but existing in
prior versions of the document. For example, when a user puts his mouse over a
paragraph, the user may be able to view prior versions of that paragraph.
In various embodiments, a prompt may ask a user whether he would like to see the
changes that have been made to a document. For example, the prompt may read
"Would you like to see the changes made to this document?"      The prompt may
occur in the absence of any prompt asking the user whether or not he would like to
save changes made to the document.
In various embodiments, a list, sequence, or other enumeration of alterations made
to a document may be presented. For example, upon indicating a desire to close a
document, a user may be prompted with the question of whether or not he wishes

to save changes made to the document. If the user responds in the affirmative then
the list of changes may be presented to the user. The user may proceed through the
list one at a time. For example, the user may highlight one change at a time. The
user may decide, for each individual change, whether or not to save it. In various
embodiments, the user may decide to save all changes at once. For example, there
may be a clickable button labeled "save change". Clicking such a button may
allow the user to save the change that is currently highlighted. There may be
another button that is labeled "save all" or the like. Clicking the button may allow
the user to save all changes at once.
As used herein, a computer touchpad may include any touch sensitive interface to a
computer, where such interface may be capable of detecting the motion of objects
(e.g., fingers) with which it is in contact, and translating such motions into
computer commands (e.g., into the motions of a mouse pointer).
In various embodiments, a joystick may serve as an input device to a computer. In
various embodiments, a trackball may serve as an input device to a computer.
                              FURTHER EMBODIMENTS
The following should be interpreted as embodiments, not claims.
Al. A method comprising:
         determining a first version of a document;
         receiving a first set of instructions;
         determining a second version of the document based on the first version
and the first set of instructions;
         receiving a second set of instructions, the second set of instructions
directing that the first version of the document be discarded;
         displaying, after receiving the second set of instructions, a set of options,
the options comprising:
                 a first option to discard the first version of the document;
                 a second option to discard the second version of the document;

                 a third option to view a comparison of the first version of the
        document with the second version of the document;
        receiving an indication of a selection of one of the three options;
        discarding the first version of the document if the first option has been
selected;
        discarding the second version of the document if the second option has
been selected; and
        displaying the view of the comparison of the first version of the document
with the second version of the document if the third option has been selected.
A2. The method of Al in which the document is one of:
        (a) a word processing document;
        (b) a spreadsheet document;
        (c) an image;
        (d) a drawing;
        (e) a computer aided design file;
        (f) an audio file; and
        (g) a text document.
A3. The method of Al in which the second version of the document is a version of
the document which is currently being displayed on a computer.
A4. The method of Al in which the first version of the document is a version of
the document which has previously been saved.
A5. The method of Al in which the first set of instructions include instructions
from one of:
        (a) a keyboard;
        (b) a computer mouse;
        (c) a computer touchpad;
        (d) a trackball; and
        (e) a joystick.

A6. The method of Al in which the first set of instructions includes instructions for
making alterations.
A7. The method of Al in which the second set of instructions includes instructions
to close the first version of the document.
A8. The method of Al in which the second set of instructions includes instructions
to close a program which is being used to edit the first version of the document.
A9. The method of Al in which the second set of instructions includes instructions
to shut down the computer on which the document is being edited.
AlO. The method of Al in which displaying, after receiving the second set of
instructions, a set of options includes: displaying, after receiving the second set of
instructions, a set of clickable buttons, the buttons representing:
                 a first option to discard the first version of the document;
                 a second option to discard the second version of the document; and
                 a third option to view a comparison of the first version of the
        document with the second version of the document.
Al l. The method of AlO in which receiving an indication of a selection of one of
the three options includes receiving an indication of which of the clickable buttons
the user has clicked on.
A12. The method of Al in which displaying the view of the comparison includes
displaying text that is present in the second document and not present in the first
document with an underline font.
A13. The method of Al further comprising:
        displaying, after receiving the second set of instructions, a message, the
message asking whether a user wishes to save changes to the document.

A14. The method of Al in which:
        the first option is presented as a button labeled "Yes";
        the second option is presented as a buttoned labeled "No"; and
        the third option is presented as a button labeled "View Changes".
A15. The method of Al in which displaying the view of the comparison includes
displaying a list of distinct changes made between the first version of the document
and the second version of the document if the third option has been selected, the
method further including:
        receiving an indication that a subset of the list of distinct changes has been
selected;
        receiving an instruction to save all selected changes; and
        saving the subset of the list of distinct changes.
A16. The method of Al in which determining a first version of a document
includes:
        displaying a plurality of versions of a document, each version having been
previously saved by a user and provided with a distinct version identifier;
        receiving a selection of one of the plurality of versions, thereby
determining the first version.
A17. A method comprising:
        receiving an indication that a user wishes to close a second version of a
document;
        determining whether the second version of the document has been saved;
        presenting, if the second version has not been saved, a prompt asking
whether the user wishes to save changes, the prompt including user selectable
options to save changes, to not save changes, and to view changes;
        determining the user's selection from among the selectable options; and

       presenting, if the user has selected the option to view changes, an indication
of changes made between the second version of the document and a first version of
the document which has been previously saved.
A18. A method comprising:
       receiving an indication that a user wishes to close a second version of a
document;
       determining whether the second version of the document has been saved;
and
       presenting, if the second version has not been saved, a prompt asking
whether the user wishes to view changes to the document.
A19. The method of A18 further including:
       presenting an indication of changes made between the second version of the
document and a first version of the document which has been previously saved.

                                        CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
        1. A computer-readable medium containing a set of instructions that when
executed by at least one processing device make the at least one processing device
operable to:
        receive at least one command that would cause a second version of a
document to be discarded;
        based at least in part on receiving the at least one command, determine that
the second version of the document is different from a first version of the
document;
        based at least in part on determining that the second version of the
document is different from the first version of the document, cause to be displayed
to a user a plurality of options, in which the options comprise:
                a first option to save at least in part the second version of the
        document;
                a second option to discard at least in part the second version of the
        document; and
                a third option for the user to obtain at least one indication of how
        the second version of the document is different from the first version of the
        document;
        based at least in part on causing to be displayed the plurality of options,
receive from the user a selection of at least one of the first, the second, and the
third options;
        based at least in part on the selection comprising the first option, cause the
second version of the document to be saved at least in part;
        based at least in part on the selection comprising the second option, cause
the second version of the document to be discarded at least in part; and
        based at least in part on the selection comprising the third option, cause to
be displayed to the user at least one difference between the second version of the
document and the first version of the document.
                                            AO

        2. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which to cause the second
version of the document to be saved at least in part comprises to cause the first
version of the document to be discarded at least in part.
        3. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which the document
comprises at least one of:
        (a) a word processing document;
        (b) a spreadsheet document;
        (c) an image;
        (d) a drawing;
        (e) a computer aided design file;
        (f) an audio file; and
        (g) a text document.
        4. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which the second version
of the document comprises a version of the document being displayed to the user
via a computer.
        5. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which the second version
of the document comprises a version of the document which has been previously
saved.
        6. The computer-readable medium of claim 1,
        in which the second version of the document is initially a copy of the first
version of the document;
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                prior to receiving the at least one command, receive from the user at
        least one second command for making alterations to the second version of
        the document; and
        in which the at least one second command causes the second version of the
document at least in part to be different from the first version of the document.

        7. The computer-readable medium of claim 6, in which the at least one
second command is from at least one of:
        (a) a keyboard;
        (b) a computer mouse;
        (c) a computer touchpad;
        (d) a trackball; and
        (e) a joystick.
         8. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which the second version
of the document is different from the first version of the document as a result of at
least one change made to the second version of the document.
        9. The computer-readable medium of claim, in which the set of
instructions, that when executed by the at least one processing device, make the at
least one processing device further operable to:
        based at least in part on receiving the at least one command, determine that
the second version of the document is not different from the first version of the
document; and
        based at least in part on determining that the second version of the
document is not different from the first version of the document, cause to be
displayed to the user an indication that no changes have been made to the second
version of the document.
         10. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which the at least one
command comprises at least one of:
        a command to close the second version of the document;
        a command to close a program that is being used to edit the second version
of the document; and
        a command to shut down the at least one processing device.

         11. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which to cause to be
displayed the plurality of options comprises to cause to be displayed to the user a
message as to whether the user wishes to save changes made to the second version
of the document, in which the changes at least in part caused the second version of
the document to be different from the first version of the document.
         12. The computer-readable medium of claim 11,
         in which to cause to be displayed the plurality of options comprises to
cause to be displayed to the user the plurality of options as a plurality of buttons
that can be selected by the user;
         in which at least a first button is associated with the first option;
         in which at least a second button is associated with the second option; and
         in which at least a third button is associated with the third option.
         13. The computer-readable medium of claim 12, in which to receive the
selection of the at least one of the first, the second, and the third options comprises
to receive the selection based at least in part on at least one of the plurality of
buttons being selected by the user.
         14. The computer-readable medium of claim 12,
                 in which the first button comprises a label "Yes";
                 in which the second button comprises a label "No"; and
                 in which the third button comprises a label "View Changes".
         15. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, in which to cause to be
displayed the at least one difference comprises to cause to be displayed to the user
at least one of:
         a portion of text that is present in the second version of the document and
not present in the first version of the document;
          a portion of text that is present in the first version of the document and not
present in the second version of the document; and
         a summary about the at least one difference.

        16. The computer-readable medium of claim 1,
        in which the displayed at least one difference is selectable by the user; and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                based at least in part on causing to be displayed the at least one
        difference:
                         receive from the user an indication that the displayed at least
                one difference has been selected by the user;
                         receive from the user at least one second command to save
                at least the selected at least one difference; and
                         based at least in part on receiving the indication that the
                displayed at least one difference has been selected and based at least
                in part on receiving the at least one second command, cause to be
                saved the selected at least one difference.
        17. The computer-readable medium of claim 1,
        in which to cause to be displayed the at least one difference comprises to
cause to be displayed to the user a fourth option, in which selection of the fourth
option causes differences between the second version of the document and the first
version of the document to be saved; and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                based at least in part on causing to be displayed the fourth option,
        receive from the user a selection of the fourth option; and
                based at least in part on receiving the selection of the fourth option,
        cause to be saved the at least one difference.
        18. The computer-readable medium of claim 1,
        in which to cause to be displayed the at least one difference comprises to
cause to be displayed to the user a fourth option, in which selection of the fourth
option causes differences between the second version of the document and the first

version of the document that are currently being displayed to the user to be saved;
and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                based at least in part on causing to be displayed the fourth option,
        receive from the user a selection of the fourth option; and
                based at least in part on receiving the selection of the fourth option
        and based at least in part on the at least one difference being displayed to
        the user, cause to be saved the at least one difference.
        19. The computer-readable medium of claim 1,
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to
determine the first version of the document; and
        in which to determine the first version of the document comprises to:
                cause to be displayed to the user a plurality of versions of the
        document, each version having been previously saved; and
                receive from the user a selection of one of the plurality of versions
        of the document, the selection comprising the first version of the document.
        20. A computer-readable medium containing a set of instructions that
when executed by at least one processing device make the at least one processing
device operable to:
        receive an indication that a document is to be closed;
        determine that the document comprises at least one change that has not
been saved;
        based at least in part determining that the document comprises at least one
change that has not been saved, cause to be presented to a user a plurality of
selectable options including:
                a first option to save the at least one change;
                a second option to not save the at least one change; and
                                             rA

                 a third option for the user to be presented with the at least one
         change;
         determine a selection by the user from among the selectable options; and
         based at least in part on the selection comprising the third option, cause to
be presented to the user the at least one change.
         21. The computer-readable medium of claim 20,
         in which the document is initially a copy of a first version of the document;
and
         in which the at least one change comprises at least one change made to the
initial copy.
         22. The computer-readable medium of claim 20,
         in which the presented at least one change is selectable by the user; and
         in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                 based at least in part on causing to be presented the at least one
         change:
                         receive from the user an indication that the presented at least
                 one change has been selected by the user;
                         receive from the user at least one command to save at least
                 the selected at least one change; and
                         based at least in part on receiving the indication that the
                 presented at least one change has been selected and based at least in
                 part on receiving the at least one command, cause to be saved the
                 selected at least one change.
         23. The computer-readable medium of claim 20,
         in which to cause to be presented the at least one change comprises to cause
to be presented to the user a fourth option, in which selection of the fourth option
causes changes made to the document to be saved; and

        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                based at least in part on causing to be presented the fourth option,
        receive from the user a selection of the fourth option; and
                based at least in part on receiving the selection of the fourth option,
        cause to be saved the at least one change.
        24. The computer-readable medium of claim 20,
        in which to cause to be presented the at least one change comprises to cause
to be presented to the user a fourth option, in which selection of the fourth option
causes changes made to the document that are currently being presented to the user
to be saved; and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                based at least in part on causing to be presented the fourth option,
        receive from the user a selection of the fourth option; and
                based at least in part on receiving the selection of the fourth option
        and based at least in part on the at least one change being presented to the
        user, cause to be saved the at least one change.
        28. A computer-readable medium containing a set of instructions that when
executed by at least one processing device make the at least one processing device
operable to:
        receive an indication that a user wishes to close a document;
        determine that the document comprises at least one change that has not
been saved; and
        based at least in part determining that the document comprises at least one
change that has not been saved, cause to be presented to the user a prompt as to
whether the user wishes to be presented with the at least one change.

        29. The computer-readable medium of claim 28, in which the set of
instructions, that when executed by the at least one processing device, make the at
least one processing device further operable to cause to be presented to the user an
indication of the at least one change.
        30. The computer-readable medium of claim 29, in which the at least one
change comprises a change made between the document and a first version of the
document which has been previously saved.
        31. The computer-readable medium of claim 29,
        in which the presented at least one change is selectable by the user; and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                 based at least in part on causing to be presented the indication of the
        at least one change:
                         receive from the user a selection of the at least one change;
                         receive from the user at least one command to save at least
                 the selected at least one change; and
                         based at least in part on receiving the selection of the at least
                 one change and based at least in part on receiving the at least one
                 command, cause to be saved the selected at least one change.
        32. The computer-readable medium of claim 29,
        in which to cause to be presented the indication of the at least one change
comprises to cause to be presented to the user an option, in which selection of the
option causes changes made to the document that are currently being presented to
the user to be saved; and
        in which the set of instructions, that when executed by the at least one
processing device, make the at least one processing device further operable to:
                 based at least in part on causing to be presented the option, receive
        from the user a selection of the option; and

        based at least in part on receiving the selection of the option and
based at least in part on the at least one change being presented to the user,
cause to be saved the at least one change.

<removed-date>
                                              <U+2719>   <U+271A>   <U+271B>
                                                          <U+2736><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+25BC> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>                    <U+2749><U+2704> <U+2711><U+2704><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2749><U+2704><U+2701><U+2712><U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                 <U+2736><U+2736><U+2718>
                                                                       <U+2771> <U+271F><U+270D>
                        <U+2768><U+271F><U+260E>              <U+25C6><U+2704>               <U+2748><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+270C>
                                                                     <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E>

<removed-date>
                                            <U+2701>   <U+271A>   <U+271B>
                                                        <U+2737>
                                                        <U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+25BC> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>                   <U+2749><U+2704> <U+2711><U+2704><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2749><U+2704><U+2701><U+2712><U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                    <U+2737><U+2718>
                             <U+2768><U+271F><U+260E>                <U+25C6><U+2704>               <U+2748><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+270C>
                                                             <U+2737>
                                                             <U+2736>
                                                <U+2771> <U+271F><U+270D>
                                             <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E>
                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                <U+2736><U+2718>

<removed-date>
                                               <U+271A>   <U+271B>
                                                       <U+2738>   <U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+25BC> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>                   <U+2749><U+2704> <U+2711><U+2704><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2749><U+2704><U+2701><U+2712><U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                             <U+2768><U+271F><U+260E>               <U+25C6><U+2704>               <U+2748><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+270C>
                 <U+2771> <U+271F><U+270D>
                                   <U+2738>   <U+2736><U+2718>
               <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E>

<removed-date>
                                                                    <U+2720>   <U+271A>   <U+271B>
                                                                                             <U+2739>   <U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+25BC> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>                               <U+2749><U+2704> <U+2711><U+2704><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2749><U+2704><U+2701><U+2712><U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                                                             <U+2739>   <U+2718>
                                         <U+2768><U+271F><U+260E>                                <U+25C6><U+2704>                         <U+2748><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+270C>
                    <U+274D>    <U+2721><U+271F>
                                               <U+2739>   <U+2736><U+2718>
                  <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E>
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F>     <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271F><U+261B><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2702><U+271F> <U+271F>                     <U+2704><U+260E>   <U+271F><U+2701><U+271D><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271D><U+2704><U+2706>  <U+271F> <U+270D> <U+270C><U+270C>    <U+2706> <U+2729> <U+2702><U+2737>
                                                                                                      <U+271F>   <U+2736>          <U+271D>
                                                                                                               <U+2714> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+2704><U+261E>
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F> <U+2736><U+2718>  <U+271E><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+2713><U+271F><U+261E><U+2712><U+271F><U+260E> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2702><U+271F> <U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+271F><U+2702> <U+261B><U+260E> <U+261E><U+271F><U+270D> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2702>                          <U+2725>   <U+271F><U+271D><U+260E> <U+260E><U+270E><U+2704><U+270D><U+271F><U+2721>               <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+261E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F><U+261B><U+260E><U+271F><U+2721>
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F> <U+2736>  <U+2738> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702> <U+260E><U+260E>
                               <U+260E><U+2712>         <U+270C> <U+271F><U+2702> <U+2721> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2712>        <U+260E>   <U+271D> <U+2704><U+261E><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2712><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2712><U+261E><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2701>      <U+260E>   <U+261B><U+271D><U+271F><U+2721> <U+270D><U+271F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270E><U+271F><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D><U+260E>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F>   <U+2737> <U+271F>
                        <U+2736><U+2718>      <U+260E>
                              <U+270F><U+2702><U+261B>       <U+270E> <U+2701> <U+2721><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F><U+271D><U+271F><U+2721>         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                             <U+2739>   <U+2736>
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F>   <U+2737> <U+271F>
                        <U+2736><U+2718>    <U+270F><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+260E>   <U+270E> <U+2701> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721>       <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                                            <U+273A>     <U+271A>    <U+271B>
                                                                                   <U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+25BC> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>
<removed-apn>                           <U+2749><U+2704> <U+2711><U+2704><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+2761><U+2749><U+2704><U+2701><U+2712><U+2714><U+271F><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                                                           <U+2718>
                                     <U+2768><U+271F><U+260E>                    <U+25C6><U+2704>                           <U+2748><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+270C>
                   <U+274D>    <U+2721><U+271F>
                                           <U+2736><U+2718>
                  <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+260E>
                                    <U+2736>                <U+2737><U+2718>                    <U+2737>                <U+2738>   <U+2718>              <U+2738>
                        P <U+2701><U+2702>
                       <U+2748><U+2764><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
                                            <U+25C6><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>
                                           <U+2748><U+2764><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
                                                            <U+25BC><U+261B><U+2702>    <U+2725>                <U+2759><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F>
                                                                                                        <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C>
                                                                                                         <U+25BC><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+261B><U+270F>        <U+2739>   <U+2718>
                                                          <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F>                   <U+2748><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+270F><U+271F>
                                                                                                        <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720><U+275B><U+2713><U+261B>s
              <U+25B2>   <U+261E><U+271F>     <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>  <U+2706><U+2704><U+2702> <U+271D><U+270E><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271F><U+261B><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2702><U+271F> <U+271F>   <U+2704><U+260E>   <U+271F><U+2701><U+271D><U+271F><U+2721> <U+271D><U+2704>      <U+2706>
                                                                               <U+271F> <U+270D> <U+270C><U+270C>   <U+2706> <U+2729> <U+2702><U+2737>
                                                                                        <U+271F>   <U+2736>             <U+271D>
                                                                                                    <U+2714> <U+270C><U+270C> <U+2704><U+261E>
                                                                                                                   <U+2739>

      <U+25B2><U+271E>t<U+260E><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C> t <U+2761><U+271F><U+2721><U+271A> <U+270E><U+2702>t<U+271F> <U+271B> <U+25BC><U+274A><U+270E><U+271C><U+2722><U+2749> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2749> <U+2746><U+2723><U+2723><U+2746>|<U+2746><U+270E><U+2724><U+2759> <U+2726><U+2722>| <U+2746><U+2749><U+2771><U+274A>|<U+270E><U+2727><U+2759><U+2727><U+25C6><U+2605> <U+2722><U+25C6> <U+2746> <U+25BC><U+2722><U+2729><U+2727><U+25B2><U+274A> <U+2605><U+2746><U+25BC><U+2727><U+25C6><U+2605> <U+2749><U+274A><U+2771><U+2727><U+2748><U+274A><U+271A> <U+2746>tt<U+2666><U+271D><U+260E> <U+261E> <U+2749><U+2666><U+2701><U+270C> t <U+272A><U+2714><U+273B><U+272B><U+2717><U+2714><U+2718><U+2713><U+271A> <U+2759><U+261B>    t <U+2715> <U+2666><U+2725> <U+2719>
                                                              <U+272C> <U+272D> <U+272C>
<removed-date>                                                    <U+2759>t<U+2761><U+271D>t
                                                                       <U+273B><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                       | <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2761><U+260E> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2706>t<U+271D><U+271E><U+2701>t<U+2702><U+2666><U+260E>
                                                       t<U+2666> <U+2701><U+271F><U+2666><U+2706> <U+2761> <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t<U+2721>
                                                                        <U+273B><U+2713><U+2715>
                                                        <U+2748><U+2666><U+275D><U+2663><U+2761><U+271D> <U+2761> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720>
                                                      <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E> <U+2666><U+2725> t<U+261B> <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t
                                                        <U+2707><U+2702>t<U+261B> <U+2761> <U+2725><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706>t <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E> <U+2666><U+2725>
                                                           t<U+261B> <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t<U+2721> <U+273B><U+2713><U+2716>
                                        <U+2768> <U+2706>           <U+2746><U+271D> t<U+261B> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2761><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2725><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706>t               <U+25C6><U+2666>
                                                        <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E><U+2706> t<U+261B> <U+2706><U+2761><U+275D> <U+2660>
                                                               <U+273B><U+2717><U+2717>
                                                                                             <U+2749><U+2702><U+2706><U+2663><U+271F><U+2761><U+261E> <U+2761> <U+2663><U+271D><U+2666><U+275D><U+2663>t <U+2761><U+2706><U+270C><U+2702><U+260E><U+270D>
                      <U+2749> <U+2706>t<U+271D><U+2666><U+261E> t<U+261B> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720>                                           <U+25C6><U+2666>       <U+2707><U+261B> t<U+261B> <U+271D> <U+2761> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+2707><U+2761><U+260E>t<U+2706> t<U+2666> <U+2706><U+2761><U+2704>
                        <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E> <U+2666><U+2725> t<U+261B>                                                     <U+2701><U+261B><U+2761><U+260E><U+270D> <U+2706><U+2721> <U+270E><U+261B> <U+2663><U+271D><U+2666><U+275D><U+2663>t <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706>
                          <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t<U+2721>                                                        <U+2666><U+2663>t<U+2702><U+2666><U+260E><U+2706> <U+270F><U+261E> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+260E><U+2666><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2701><U+2761><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2711><U+2712>
                                      <U+273B><U+2717><U+273B>
                                                                                               <U+2761><U+260E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+2704><U+2702> <U+2707> <U+2701><U+261B><U+2761><U+260E><U+270D> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2721>
                                                                                                                     <U+273B><U+2718><U+2714>
                                                                  <U+2768> <U+2706>
                     <U+2749> <U+2706>t<U+271D><U+2666><U+261E> t<U+261B> <U+2725><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706>t <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E>
                       <U+2666><U+2725> t<U+261B> <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t<U+2721>                                                      <U+2772><U+261B><U+2761>t <U+2720><U+2666> <U+2706> t<U+261B> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+2706><U+2761><U+261E><U+2660>
                                         <U+273B><U+2718><U+2716>
                                                                                                       <U+273B><U+2718><U+2715>
                       <U+2748><U+2666><U+2663><U+261E> t<U+261B> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720>                                                                        <U+2771><U+2702> <U+2707> <U+2748><U+261B><U+2761><U+260E><U+270D> <U+2706>
                    <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E> <U+2666><U+2725> t<U+261B> <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t
                      t<U+2666> <U+2761> <U+2701><U+2666><U+275D><U+2663><U+271E>t <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2761><U+271D><U+2720>                                                            <U+2749> t <U+271D><U+275D><U+2702><U+260E> t<U+261B>
                             <U+2720><U+271D><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2721>    <U+273B><U+2715><U+2717>                                                      <U+2720><U+2702><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271D> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706> <U+2762> t<U+2707> <U+260E>
                                                                                                t<U+261B> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2761><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2725><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706>t
                                                                      <U+2748><U+2761><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271F>                          <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E><U+2706><U+2721> <U+273B><U+2719><U+2714>
                      <U+2749> <U+2706>t<U+271D><U+2666><U+261E> t<U+261B> <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2666><U+260E><U+2720>
                        <U+2704> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+2666><U+260E> <U+2666><U+2725> t<U+261B>
                          <U+2720><U+2666><U+2701><U+271E><U+275D> <U+260E>t<U+2721>
                                      <U+273B><U+2715><U+273B>
                                                                                             <U+2749><U+2702><U+2706><U+2663><U+271F><U+2761><U+261E> t<U+261B> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271D> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2721>
                                                                                                                 <U+273B><U+2719><U+2715>
                                                                <U+274A><U+260E><U+2720>
                                                                       <U+273B><U+2719><U+2716>

