                                                - 21
  ABSTRACT
          An invention is disclosed that includes a housing with an opening at a first end
  and a plurality of holes at a second end, a plurality of hollow tubes attached to the
  plurality of holes, a plurality of containers removably attached to the hollow tubes, and a
5 plurality of elastic fasteners, each elastic fastener clamping each container to a
  corresponding hollow tube, such that when the containers are filled with fluid and
  detached from the corresponding hollow tubes, each elastic fastener seals each container
  with the fluid inside.

                 1/8
                         FLU ID
              14         SOURCE
  10
     16A             16
    20A''TT~ti1       20
   18A
FIG. 1

                                                  -1
     APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FILLING CONTAINERS WITH FLUIDS
   TECHNICAL FIELD
           The present disclosure relates generally to fluid inflatable systems and more
 5 particularly, to an apparatus, system and method for filling containers with fluids.
   BACKGROUND
           Inflatable containers such as balloons can be filled with a variety of fluids, such as
   air, helium, water, medicines, etc. In some cases, it may be desirable for a lot of
10 inflatable containers to be filled with fluids. For example, festive balloons used as props
   in conventions, large parties, etc. may number in the hundreds and may require
   substantial human effort to fill them all in a timely manner. In another example, water
   balloons used as kids' toys may need to be filled in large numbers to aid in various
   games. Various methods may be employed to fill such inflatable containers. For
15 example, an individual may sequentially blow up and tie each balloon by hand or use a
   tank of compressed air or helium to inflate the balloon, which then has to be tied. This
   sequential filling is time consuming. In another example, an individual may fill water
   balloons with water by hand one at a time, and then tie the balloons, which can all be
   quite time-consuming.       Moreover, the inflatable containers may be damaged or filled to
20 different volumes.
           It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus, system
   and method for filling containers with fluids that addresses at least some of the above
   mentioned disadvantages and/or that will at least provide the public with a useful choice.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Accordingly in a first aspect the present invention may be said to be an apparatus
   comprising:
            a housing comprising an opening at a first end and a plurality of holes at a second
   end;
30          a plurality of hollow tubes, each hollow tube attached to the housing at a
   respective one of the holes at the second end;
            a plurality of containers, each container removably attached to a respective one of
   the hollow tubes; and
            a plurality of elastic fasteners, each elastic fastener clamping a respective one of
35 the plurality of containers to a corresponding hollow tube, and each elastic fastener
   configured to automatically seal its respective one of the plurality of containers upon
   detaching the container from its corresponding hollow tube.

                                                  - 2
            Preferably the apparatus is configured to fill the containers substantially
   simultaneously with a fluid.
            Preferably the first end of the housing has an outermost perimeter that is smaller
   in length than an outermost perimeter of the second end.
 5          Preferably the opening at the first end of the housing has a threaded inner
   surface.
            Preferably each container comprises an expandable balloon portion.
            Preferably each container comprises a rigid portion and a flexible portion, the
   flexible portion disposed between the elastic fastener and the end of a respective one of
10 the plurality of tubes.
            Preferably each container comprises a volumetric measurement marking providing
   a visual reference for filling the container to a desired volume.
            Preferably the elastic fastener is disposed outwardly from the container and
   clamps an inner surface of the container against an outer surface of the respective one of
15 the plurality of tubes.
            Preferably the fluid comprises one or more of water, air, and helium.
            Preferably each elastic fastener comprises an o-ring configured to automatically
   seal the container in response to a force applied to the container in a direction away from
   the housing.
20          Preferably the hollow tubes are flexible.
            Preferably the plurality of tubes comprise a first set of tubes each having a first
   length, and a second set of tubes each having a second length longer than the first
   length.
            Preferably the housing is attached to a valve coupled to a fluid source, wherein
25 the valve is configured to control delivery of the fluid to fill the plurality of containers.
            Preferably the valve includes a lever that can be turned to a first position to turn
   on the valve and allow fluid flow to the housing, wherein the lever can be turned to a
   second position to turn off the valve and stop fluid flow to the housing.
            Preferably one end of the valve is connected to a hose attached to a water supply,
30 and the other end is threaded to the housing.
            In a second aspect the present invention may be said to be a method of filling a
   plurality of containers simultaneously with a fluid, comprising:
            attaching a housing to a fluid source, wherein the housing comprises a fluid inlet
   (preferably a threaded opening at a first end) and a plurality of holes separated from the
35 fluid inlet (preferably at a second end), a plurality of hollow tubes extending from the
   plurality of holes and each having a distal end with a fluid outlet opening that is in fluid
   connection with the fluid inlet, wherein a plurality of containers are removably attached

                                                  - 3
   to the plurality of hollow tubes and about the fluid outlet of each hollow tube, wherein an
   elastic fastener clamps each container to a corresponding one of the hollow tubes;
            supplying a fluid from the fluid source to the housing via the fluid inlet; and
            substantially simultaneously filling the plurality of containers with the fluid.
 5         Preferably further comprising detaching the plurality of containers from the
   plurality of hollow tubes, wherein when each container is detached from the
   corresponding hollow tube, the elastic fastener seals the containers with the fluid inside.
           Preferably the detaching comprises shaking the housing until the plurality of
   containers slip down the hollow tubes.
10         Preferably the detaching comprises pulling away the containers from the hollow
   tubes.
           Preferably when the filled containers reach a threshold weight, the containers slip
   off the hollow tubes.
           In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an apparatus
15 comprising a tube removably joined to at least one elastic container by an open elastic
   valve, wherein the tube facilitates filling the elastic container with a fluid, the elastic
   valve being configured to automatically close upon removal of the tube from the elastic
   container to seal the fluid inside the elastic container.
           Preferably the elastic valve comprises an elastic ring disposed around a neck of
20 the elastic container.
           In still a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an apparatus
   comprising a plurality of flexible tubes, each flexible tube joined to a balloon, wherein the
   flexible tubes facilitate filling the balloons with a fluid, wherein the balloons are disposed
   in sufficient proximity to one another to push on each other during their filling, thereby
25 causing the tubes to flex.
           Preferably the flexible tubes are of different lengths.
           In still a further aspect the present invention may be said to be a balloon filling
   apparatus comprising a plurality of tubes and a plurality of balloons, wherein each
   balloon is connected to a respective one of the tubes with a connecting force not less
30 than a weight equivalent to one of the balloons if substantially filled with water, the
   connecting force being overcomeable by applying an upward acceleration on the tube,
   wherein the apparatus is configured to fill the plurality of the balloons substantially
   simultaneously.
           Preferably the connecting force is less than 1 Newton.
35         Preferably the connecting force is provided by an elastic valve configured to
   automatically seal the balloon if the connecting force is overcome.

                                                  -4
           Preferably each hole of the plurality of holes at the second end of the housing
   extends through an outer surface of the housing, the outer surface opposing the opening
   at the first end of the housing.
           In still a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an apparatus
 5 comprising or including
           a conduit or manifold with at least one outlet and with an inlet for fluid to be
   ducted to egress from the or each outlet, and
           a resiliently collared, resiliently banded and/or resiliently beaded fluid inflatable
   container constrained by the collar, band and/or bead such that its fluid entranceway is
10 releasably about, but sealed to, the or its outlet;
           the arrangement being that fluid can pass through such conduit or manifold in use
   to inflate the container(s) whilst the collar, band and/or bead of the or each container
   keeps the fluid entranceway about and sealed to the or its outlet;
           and the arrangement further being such that the fluid content weight and/or
15 inertia can assist or cause the release by axial separation of the fluid entranceway of the
   or each container from the or its outlet whereupon the or each collar, band and/or bead,
   no longer expanded by the or its tubular outlet, closes the or its fluid entranceway.
           Preferably the outlet is tubular.
           In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an
20 apparatus comprising or including
           a manifold or manifold assembly ('manifold') providing an ability to duct fluid
   ingressing via an inlet to egress out of each of a plurality of outlets,
           a plurality of fluid inflatable containers each having its entranceway about a said
   outlet, and
25         a resilient collar, band and/or bead of and/or about each entranceway in a
   stretched condition thereby to hold the entranceway sufficiently tightly about its outlet to
   receive a fluid fill but not so tightly that the fluid fill weight and/or inertia cannot assist
   and/or cause the release and/or extraction of its outlet and thereafter the fluid tight
   sealing of the tubular entranceway by a contraction of its collar, band and/or bead.
30         Preferably the inlet is a threaded inlet.
           Preferably the outlets are each tubular.
           Preferably the entrance way is tubular.
           In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be a water
   balloon assembly comprising
35         a plurality of balloons each with a tubular entranceway, and
           a collar, band or bead about or of each tubular entranceway, and

                                                 - 5
           a manifold or manifold assembly ('manifold') having an inlet to receive water and
   duct such water out of each of a plurality of tubular outlets;
           wherein each balloon is held sufficiently tightly by the collar, band or bead with
   the liquid entranceway about its tubular outlet of the manifold that water will pass out of
 5 its tubular outlet through its tubular entranceway to inflate the balloon;
           and wherein each balloon can have its tubular entranceway sealed by a
   contraction of its collar, band or bead when no longer held to it's tubular outlet;
           and wherein separation of a water inflated balloon from its manifold outlet can
   be caused or assisted by the weight or inertia of the water in the balloon.
10         In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an
   apparatus comprising or including
           a plurality of resiliently chokered water inflatable balloons each held by its choker
   about its tubular entranceway, and as a sleeve, on an outlet tube of a filling manifold
   connectable at its inlet to a water source.
15         Preferably the choker hold on each manifold outlet enables post water inflation
   axial separation of the sleeved tubular entranceway from its tubular outlet and
   subsequent choker sealing of the tubular entranceway of the water inflated balloon.
           Preferably the weight and/or inertia of the water content assists and/or causes the
   axial separation.
20 In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be a filling procedure for
   multiple balloons, each to be sealed by a constrictor about its tubular entranceway, the
   procedure comprising the steps of
           providing a manifold with an inlet to receive water and multiple tubular outlets,
   each outlet having a tubular entranceway, as a sleeve, held by the constrictor on the
25 tubular entranceway, and
           inflating each balloon with water and allowing drop off and/or causing drop off of
   each balloon to self seal reliant on its constrictor.
   In even a further aspect the present invention may be said to be a water filled balloon
   sealed by a constrictor about its tubular entranceway.
30 In even a further aspect the present invention may be said to be a plurality of juxtaposed
   water filled balloons each in fluid communication via a manifold to a single water supply
   conduit.
           The present invention may also be said to be a water filled balloon sealed by a
   constrictor about its tubular entranceway, such constrictor having effected the seal after
35 a sliding off of the tubular entranceway from a filling spigot.
           Preferably the filling spigot was a tubular outlet of a manifold thread engageable
   to a suitable tap.

                                                 - 6
          The present invention may also be said to be a water filled balloon sealed by a
   constrictor about its beaded tubular entranceway, the beading assisting constrictor
   location about the entranceway.
           In yet a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an item of
 5 commerce, comprising
           (1)    apparatus as herein before described and
           (2)    packaging that has the apparatus therein so as not to allow easy separation
   of each balloon or container from its associated tubular outlet from the manifold.
           Preferably the apparatus allows a thread engagement of the inlet of the manifold
10 to complementary faucet without separation of any balloon or container from the
   manifold.
           In even a further aspect the present invention may be said to be an
   apparatus suitable to provide a multiple of water filled and choker or constrictor sealed
   balloons upon water filling of the balloons using a manifold of the apparatus, the
15 apparatus comprising a said manifold with a inlet to receive water and multiple tubular
   outlets out which water is to issue, a balloon docked about each tubular outlet to receive
   issuing water, and a said choker or constrictor of each balloon to serve the multiple
   functions:
           (a)     hold its balloon to receive issuing water,
20         (b)     allow dedocking of its balloon,and
           (c)     choke or constrictor seal water content in its balloon as the water filled
                   balloon is being dedocked and/or upon dedocking.
           Preferably the hollow tubes as herein before described are rigidly flexible.
           Preferably the tubes are able to bend, yet keep their non bent cross sectional
25 shape.
           Preferably the balloons, in their pre-filled condition, allow the distal ends of the
   tubes at where the balloons are engaged, to be in more condensed configuration
   compared to when the balloons filled.
           Preferably the tubes extend substantially parallel each other and are adapted and
30 configured, when being filled, to progressively splay outwards.
           Preferably the tubes extend from the housing generally in the same direction and
   are adapted and configured, when being filled, to progressively splay outwards.
           Preferably the tubes are adapted to not crease, fold or buckle when the balloons
   are being filled.
35         Preferably the outward splay is as a result of the expansion of the girth of the
   balloons as they are filled and the balloons being in contact with adjacent of said
   balloons.

                                                  - 7
            Preferably the balloons do not contain any liquid prior to being filled with water.
            Preferably the balloons contain air prior to being filled with water.
            Preferably the air in the balloons is in fluid connection with ambient air.
            Preferably there is no pressure differential between the air in the balloons and
 5 ambient air.
            Preferably balloons, prior to being filled with water, are flaccid.
            Preferably the balloons, once filled, are volumetrically, at least 3 times their
   flaccid size.
            Preferably the balloons, once filled, are volumetrically, at least 5 times their
10 flaccid size.
            Preferably the balloons, once fully filled, are no more than 0.002 cubic metres.
            Preferably the balloons, once fully filled, are no more than 0.0014 cubic metres.
            Preferably the balloons, once fully filled, are no more than 0.0005 cubic metres.
            Preferably the balloons, once fully filled, are no more than 0.0001 cubic metres.
15          Preferably the balloons comprise of a flexible body and a less flexible spout, the
   spout being engaged to a respective tube.
            Preferably the flexible body or each balloon is located beyond the distal end of a
   respective tube.
            Preferably a first group of tubes have their distal ends more proximate the
20 housing/manifold than a second group of tubes, thereby locating a first group of balloons
   more proximate the housing/manifold than a second group of balloons.
            Preferably the first group of tubes is located about the second group of tubes.
            Preferably the tubes are arranged, at the housing/manifold in arrays of concentric
   circles.
25          Preferably the second group of tubes are of inner more concentric circles to the
   first group of tubes.
            Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 20mm apart each other.
             Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
30 than 25mm apart each other.
            Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 30mm apart each other.
            Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 35mm apart each other.
35          Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 40mm apart each other.

                                                -8
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 45mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 50mm apart each other.
 5         Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 55mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
   than 60mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be more
10 than 65mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be no
   more than 80mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be no
   more than 70mm apart each other.
15         Preferably the ends of the tubes displace, upon filling of the balloons, to be no
   more than 65mm apart each other.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes, when the balloons are flaccid, have a spacing of
   less than 50mm.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes, when the balloons are flaccid, have a spacing of
20 less than 40mm.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes, when the balloons are flaccid, have a spacing of
   less than 30mm.
           Preferably the ends of the tubes, when the balloons are flaccid, have a spacing of
   less than 20mm.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           To provide a more complete understanding of the present disclosure and features
   and advantages thereof, reference is made to the following description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying figures, wherein like reference numerals represent
30 like parts, in which:
           FIGURE 1 is a simplified perspective view illustrating an example configuration of
   an embodiment of a system for filling containers with fluids;
           FIGURE 2 is a simplified diagram illustrating a cross-sectional view of example
   details of an embodiment of the system;
35         FIGURE 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating other example details of an
   embodiment of the system;

                                                -9
           FIGURE 4 is a simplified diagram illustrating yet other example details of an
   embodiment of the system;
           FIGURE 5 is a simplified diagram illustrating yet other example details of an
   embodiment of the system;
 5         FIGURE 6 is a simplified diagram illustrating yet other example details of an
   embodiment of the system;
           FIGURE 7 is a simplified diagram illustrating yet other example details of an
   embodiment of the system; and
           FIGURE 8 is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be
10 associated with an embodiment of the system.
           FIGURE 9a is an end view of figure 9b
           FIGURE 9b is a side view of an example of the present invention
           FIGURE 9c is an opposite end view of figure 9b
           FIGURE 10 is a side view showing the tubes splayed apart more when the balloons
15 have been filled.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           In a broad sense the present invention includes or utilizes an apparatus that
   includes a housing (e.g., casing, manifold, covering, etc. that includes a cavity inside)
20 with a first opening at a first region and a plurality of openings at a second region. , A
   plurality of hollow tubes extend from the plurality of openings to a plurality of containers
   (e.g., receptacles, vessels, ampules, test-tubes, balloons, etc.). The tubes may be
   integrally formed with the housing or separately assembled therewith. The containers
   are removably attached to the hollow tubes. A plurality of elastic fasteners are utilized
25 Each elastic fastener clamps a container to a corresponding hollow tube, such that when
   the containers are filled with fluid and detached from the corresponding hollow tubes,
   each elastic fastener seals each container to help retain the fluid inside the container.
   The fasteners may be integrally formed with the container or separately associated
   therewith.
30         Some examples of the present invention will now be described with reference to
   the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood that the following disclosure describes
   several example embodiments for implementing different features, structures, or
   functions of the system. Example embodiments of components, arrangements, and
   configurations are described herein to simplify the present disclosure. However, these
35 example embodiments are provided merely as examples and are not intended to limit the
   scope of the invention.

                                                - 10
           The present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and/or letters in the
   various exemplary embodiments and across the Figures provided herein. This repetitions
   is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself indicate a relationship
   between the various exemplary embodiments and/or configurations discussed in the
 5 various Figures.
            FIGURE 1 is a simplified diagram illustrating an example embodiment of a system
   10 for filling containers with fluids. System 10 includes a housing 12 removably
   attachable to a hose 14 (e.g., tube, pipe, etc.) at a first region such as on a first end A
   and to a plurality of hollow tubes 16 at a second region such as the second end B.
10          As used herein, the term "housing" encompasses a hollow space or chamber
   enclosed by a rigid or semi-rigid casing (e.g., covering, skin, sleeve, sheath, etc.). A
   manifold arrangement is provide by the housing. In some embodiments, end A may
   include a threaded opening configured to mate with corresponding threads on hose 14.
   In some embodiments, end A may be smaller in circumference or area than end B. Hose
15 14 may be connected to a fluid source, such as a water tank, gas tank, water supply line,
   etc. on end A. End B may include a plurality of openings such as holes (preferably
   configured in an array), configured to fit tubes 16. In some embodiments, tubes 16 may
   be integrally formed with the housing or are permanently attached (e.g., welded, brazed,
   stuck with adhesives, press-fitted, etc.) to housing 12. In other embodiments, tubes 16
20 may be removably attached (e.g., with threads, pressure, etc.) to housing 12.
           The tubes each have an outlet opening distal the housing. A plurality of containers
   18 may be held (e.g., attached, fastened, camped, clinched, secured, etc.) to plurality of
   hollow tubes 16 at the distal ends of the tube. This is preferably achieved using elastic
   valves 20. Each tube has one container associated with it.
25          As used herein, the term "container" refers to an object that can hold something,
   such as fluids. It is preferably an elastic container but does not need to be so. The term
   "valve" refers to an object that regulates, directs, or controls the flow of fluids, by
   opening, closing, or partially obstructing passageways of fluid flow. In an example
   embodiment, elastic valves 20 comprise elastic fasteners, such as O-rings or rubber
30 bands. In another example embodiments, elastic valves 20 comprise corrugations,
   smocking, elastic fibers, etc. fabricated into the necks of containers 18. They are adapted
   and configured so that force is required to pull open the necks of containers 18, and
   removal of the force causes the necks to constrict and close. In yet another example
   embodiment, elastic valves comprise internal or external plugs affixed to the necks of
35 containers 18, through which tubes 16 may be pushed through to clamp containers 18
   thereto.

                                                 - 11
            Note that each of container 18 has an opening to facilitate clamping to tubes 16
   and a cavity for containing fluid. For example, one end of an example tube 16A may be
   fitted through a hole in end B of housing 12, and the other end of tube 16A may be
   inserted into an example container 18A. An example elastic valve 20A (e.g., 0-ring,
 5 comprising a mechanical gasket typically in a toroid shape; elastic ring, such as a rubber
   band) of sufficient size to expand and clamp around tube 16A may be dispose around
   (e.g., placed over) a neck (e.g., portion just below opening) of container 18A, clamping
   and sealing container 18A to tube 16A. Thus, elastic valve 20A may be in an open
   configuration when container 18A is attached to tube 16A; in elastic valve 20A's open
10 configuration, the neck of container 18A is open, allowing container 18A to fill with fluid.
   After container 18A is filled with fluid, it may be removed from tube 16A, whereupon
   elastic valve 20A is free to close and closes, thereby closing the neck of container 18A
   and sealing the fluid inside.
            In one example embodiment, containers 18 may comprise inflatable balloons that
15 may be filled with fluids such as water, air or helium. In another example embodiment,
   containers 18 may comprise flexible (e.g., stretchy, springy, etc.) elastic containers that
   may be filled with gaseous or liquid medications. As used herein, the term "elastic" is
   meant to refer to a property of a material that allows the material to resume its normal
   shape spontaneously after contraction, dilation, or distortion. In an example, an elastic
20 material may be stretched to 200% of its original length, and the material may return to
   its original length when the stretching force is removed.
            It will be appreciated that the valve may not make a complete seal of the
   container. An gas or liquid tight seal is preferred but some, minimal, leakage of fluid from
   the container may occur after removal from the tubes. Any leakage is preferably minimal
25 for the applications to which the container is subsequently put. Eg if its for decorative
   balloons, slow leakage over a matter of days is likely to be of no consequence. Leakage
   may also be temporary in that subsequent additional sealing by other steps may take
   place. Eg decorative balloons may be clipped to a stick that has some sealing
   functionality to offer additional sealing for the balloon.
30          In yet another example embodiment, containers 18 may comprise flexible
   containers that may be filled with body fluids (e.g., urine, blood) for example, to collect
   multiple samples simultaneously for testing. Virtually any type and kind of fluid may be
   used within the broad scope of the embodiments. Note that in some embodiments,
   containers 18 need not be inflatable or flexible in their entireties. For example, a bottom
35 portion of containers 18 may be inelastic (e.g., glass, plastic, metal, etc., of fixed shape
   and size), and a top portion may be flexible enough to be inserted around tubes 16 and
   clamped thereon.

                                                - 12
            When the fluid source is turned on, fluid may flow through housing 12, tubes 16
   and fill containers 18. In some embodiments, when housing 12 is connected to a stream
   of liquid, containers 18 may be filled with the liquid. In some embodiments, the fluid
   may be supplied at high pressure. Virtually any mechanism that facilitates fluid flow
 5 through tubes 16 at sufficient pressure to fill containers 18 may be used within the broad
   scope of the embodiments. After containers 18 have reached a desired size or volume,
   they may be detached from tubes 16. In one example embodiment, filled containers 18
   may be detached by pulling them away from tubes 16.
            In another example embodiment, the connecting force holding filled containers 18
10 to tubes 16 may be overcome by an upward acceleration on tubes 16, for example, when
   they are shaken. Thus, filled containers 18 may be detached by shaking housing 12 (or
   tubes 16) sufficiently vigorously to cause containers 18 to fall off from tubes 16. In some
   embodiments, the connecting force holding filled container to its corresponding tube is
   not less than the weight of the filled container; in a specific embodiment, the connecting
15 force holding each container to its corresponding tube is exactly equal to the weight of
   the filled container. The connecting force may be provided by a combination of
   constricting forces and friction forces from elastic valves 20.
            In yet other embodiments, containers 18 may fall off under gravity; for example,
   when filled containers 18 reach a threshold weight, they slip off tubes 16 due to gravity.
20 The threshold weight may be based upon the tightness of elastic valves 20, friction
   between tubes 16 and containers 18, and force from the weight of containers 18 (among
   other parameters).     In various embodiments, containers 14 may slide off tubes 16 and
   elastic valves 20 may constrict the necks of containers 18, sealing them. In some
   embodiments, containers 18 may be marked with volumetric measurements, and fluid
25 flow may be turned off when the fluid has filled containers 18 to a desired volume.
            The end of the hollow tubes may include a flared outer lip or gradual taper
   increasing towards the end, that may present a hurdle for the elastic valve when sliding
   off the tube. An increased force may be applied to the container to overcome this hurdle
   prior to release from the tube. This may be desirable in order to prevent accidental or
30 premature removal. However selection of an appropriate materials and their co-efficient
   of friction for the tubes and containers and an appropriately elastic valve, accidental or
   premature release may also be avoided.
            In some embodiments, hollow tubes 16 may be made of a rigid material (e.g.,
   steel, glass); in other embodiments, tubes 16 may be made of a flexible material (e.g.,
35 thin plastic). In some embodiments, tubes 16 may be thick, short and rigid; in other
   embodiments, tubes 16 may be slender, long and flexible. Thus, hollow tubes 16 may be
   flexible, semi-rigid, or rigid, based on its material of construction, design, or a

                                                 - 13
   combination thereof. Note that tubes 16 may be of different lengths, for example, to
   prevent crowding and to accommodate a larger number of containers 18 than would be
   possible if tubes 16 were of the same length. Thus, at least some of hollow tubes 16
   may be of different lengths than the others.
 5          Also, tubes 16 may be flexible to enable containers 18 to expand. Thus, as
   containers 18 fill with fluid and expand, they may push against each other, flexing tubes
   16. The outermost tubes 16 may be flexed more than the innermost tubes 16 (outer and
   inner being in reference to a center-point of housing 12, with the inner tubes 16 being
   closer to the center-point, and the outer tubes 16 being farther from the center-point).
10          Turning to FIGURE 2, FIGURE 2 is a simplified cross-sectional view of a portion of
   an embodiment of system 10. Housing 12 comprises a threaded opening 22 at end A, an
   internal cavity 24, and an array of holes 26 at end B. Internal cavity 24 facilitates
   distributing the fluid entering at threaded opening 22 to array of holes 26 at end B. In
   some embodiments, threaded opening 22 may be configured for attaching to a fluid
15 supply hose 14 (e.g., garden hose, plastic tube, etc.). In other embodiments, threaded
   opening 22 may be attached to corresponding threads in a valve. Array of holes 26 may
   be configured for connecting first ends 28 of tubes 16 by any suitable means. In some
   embodiments, first ends 28 of tubes 16 may be connected to corresponding holes 26 by
   compressing or gluing. In some embodiments, a number of holes 26 in housing 12 and a
20 number of tubes 16 can correspond to a number of containers 18 that are desired to be
   filled and sealed substantially simultaneously.
            To clarify further, only one example tube 16A is shown in the figure. A first end
   28A of tube 16A is fitted through a corresponding hole 26A in housing 12. A second end
   29A of tube 16A is inserted into container 18A. Elastic valve 20A may be placed around
25 the neck of container 18A clamping the neck to tube 16A. An internal volume 30A of
   container 18A may be filled with fluid appropriately.
            To fill and seal containers 18, housing 12 may be attached to a fluid supply tube
   (e.g., garden hose) and the fluid supply may be turned on. The fluid enters housing 12,
   is distributed to holes 26, travels down tubes 16, and fills containers 18. Containers 18
30 may be filled and may expand substantially simultaneously. When containers 18 have
   reached a desired size and/or they are filled with the desired volume of fluid, they may
   be removed from tubes 16. They can be removed by falling off, by shaking them off, by
   pulling them off by hand, etc. As each container 18A is removed from corresponding
   tube 16A, respective elastic valve 20A may constrict and close the neck of container 18A,
35 sealing it with the fluid inside.
            Turning to FIGURE 3, FIGURE 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating example details
   of a valve 31 that may be attached between hose 14 and housing 12 according to an

                                                 - 14
   embodiment of system 10. One end of valve 31 may be attached to hose 14 and the
   other end may be attached to threaded opening 22 of housing 12 (e.g., using threads).
   A lever 32 may be turned from one side (of valve 31) to another (e.g., as indicated by
   arrow C) to turn on and turn off fluid flow to housing 12. For example, to turn on the
 5 fluid flow, lever 32 may be turned to a first position; lever 32 may be turned to a second
   position (e.g., different from the first position) to turn off fluid flow.
            Turning to FIGURE 4, FIGURE 4 is a simplified diagram illustrating example details
   of an embodiment of system 10.       Housing 12 may be attached to a spigot 33 (e.g.,
   nozzle, faucet, outlet, etc.) that connects to the fluid source. Spigot 33 may be turned
10 on or turned off to start or stop fluid flow to housing 12.
            Turning to FIGURE 5, FIGURE 5 is a simplified diagram illustrating example details
   of an application of an embodiment of system 10. Embodiments of system 10 may be
   used in a variety of applications, such as for collecting numerous blood samples
   substantially simultaneously. Blood 34 may be drawn from a human (or animal) and
15 blood 34 may collect substantially simultaneously in plurality of containers 18. The
   substantial simultaneous collection of blood in such manner can ease patient pain, speed
   up sampling time, and enable taking multiple samples substantially simultaneously
   without cross-contamination from one container to another or messy transfers between
   containers.
20          Turning to FIGURE 6, FIGURE 6 is a simplified diagram illustrating example details
   of an application of an embodiment of system 10. Embodiments of system 10 may be
   used in a variety of applications, such as for collecting numerous urine samples
   substantially simultaneously. Urine 36 may be drawn from a human (or animal) through
   a suitable catheter 38, and may collect substantially simultaneously in plurality of
25 containers 18.
            Turning to FIGURE 7, FIGURE 7 is a simplified diagram illustrating example details
   of an embodiment of system 10.       Example container 18A may comprise a flexible portion
   40 and an inflexible portion 42. Flexible portion 40 may be clamped on to example tube
   16A using example elastic valve 20A. In some embodiments, container 18A may
30 comprise volumetric measurement markings 44. When fluid fills container 18A to a
   desired volume, for example, as indicated by volumetric measurement marking 44,
   container 18A may be detached from tube 16A, whereupon elastic valve 20A may close
   container 18A, sealing the fluid inside.
            Turning to FIGURE 8, FIGURE 8 is a simplified flow diagram 50 illustrating
35 example operations that may be associated with an embodiment of system 10. At 52,
   housing 12 may be attached to a fluid source (e.g., through hose 14, spigot 33, etc.) At
   54, fluid may be supplied from the fluid source to housing 12. At 56, plurality of

                                                 - 15
   containers 18 may be filled with the fluid. At 58, containers 18 may be detached from
   corresponding tubes 16.
           Note that in this Specification, references to various features (e.g., elements,
   structures, modules, components, steps, operations, characteristics, etc.) included in
 5 "one embodiment", "example embodiment", "an embodiment", "another embodiment",
   "some embodiments", "various embodiments", "other embodiments", "alternative
   embodiment", and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in
   one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, but may or may not necessarily be
   combined in the same embodiments.
10        The elements described herein may be made of any suitable materials, including
   metal (e.g., stainless steel, copper, brass, bronze, aluminum, etc.), plastic, glass,
   elastomers, or any suitable combination thereof. Each element may also be made of a
   combination of different materials (e.g., housing and tubes may be made of plastic and
   containers may be made of elastic rubber; housing and tubes may be made of stainless
15 steel and containers may be made of a combination of glass and flexible plastic; etc.).
   Any suitable material or combination of materials may be used for the components
   described herein without departing from the broad scope of the present disclosure.
           In addition, the shapes shown and illustrated in the various FIGURES are for
   example purposes only. Various other shapes may be used herein without changing the
20 scope of the present disclosure. For example, housing 12 may be conical, cylindrical,
   pyramidal, etc., without departing from the broad scope of the embodiments. Likewise,
   tubes 16 may be rigid, or flexible 18 without departing from the scope of the broad
   embodiments.
           While the disclosure references several particular embodiments, those skilled in
25 the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without
   departing from the true spirit and scope of the disclosure. It is intended that all
   elements or steps which are insubstantially different from those recited in the claims but
   perform substantially the same functions, respectively, in substantially the same way to
   achieve the same result as what is claimed are within the scope of the disclosure.
30

                                                 - 16
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.      An apparatus comprising:
           a housing comprising an opening at a first end and a plurality of holes at a second
   end;
 5         a plurality of hollow tubes, each hollow tube attached to the housing at a
   respective one of the holes at the second end;
           a plurality of containers, each container removably attached to a respective one of
   the hollow tubes; and
           a plurality of elastic fasteners, each elastic fastener clamping a respective one of
10 the plurality of containers to a corresponding hollow tube, and each elastic fastener
   configured to automatically seal its respective one of the plurality of containers upon
   detaching the container from its corresponding hollow tube.
   2.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the apparatus is configured to fill the
   containers substantially simultaneously with a fluid.
15 3.      The apparatus of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the first end of the housing has an
   outermost perimeter that is smaller in length than an outermost perimeter of the second
   end.
   4.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the opening at the first end of
   the housing has a threaded inner surface.
20 5.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein each container comprises an
   expandable balloon portion.
   6.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein each container comprises a
   rigid portion and a flexible portion, the flexible portion disposed between the elastic
   fastener and the end of a respective one of the plurality of tubes.
25 7.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein each container comprises a
   volumetric measurement marking providing a visual reference for filling the container to
   a desired volume.
   8.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the elastic fastener is
   disposed outwardly from the container and clamps an inner surface of the container
30 against an outer surface of the respective one of the plurality of tubes.
   9.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the fluid comprises one or
   more of water, air, and helium.
   10.     The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein each elastic fastener
   comprises an o-ring configured to automatically seal the container in response to a force
35 applied to the container in a direction away from the housing.
   11.     The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein the hollow tubes are flexible.

                                                 - 17
   12.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein the plurality of tubes
   comprise a first set of tubes each having a first length, and a second set of tubes each
   having a second length longer than the first length.
   13.      The apparatus of any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein the housing is attached to a
 5 valve coupled to a fluid source, wherein the valve is configured to control delivery of the
   fluid to fill the plurality of containers.
   14.      The apparatus of Claim 13, wherein the valve includes a lever that can be turned
   to a first position to turn on the valve and allow fluid flow to the housing, wherein the
   lever can be turned to a second position to turn off the valve and stop fluid flow to the
10 housing.
   15.      The apparatus of Claim 13, wherein one end of the valve is connected to a hose
   attached to a water supply, and the other end is threaded to the housing.
   16.      A method of filling a plurality of containers simultaneously with a fluid,
   comprising:
15          attaching a housing to a fluid source, wherein the housing comprises a fluid inlet
   (preferably a threaded opening at a first end) and a plurality of holes separated from the
   fluid inlet (preferably at a second end), a plurality of hollow tubes extending from the
   plurality of holes and each having a distal end with a fluid outlet opening that is in fluid
   connection with the fluid inlet, wherein a plurality of containers are removably attached
20 to the plurality of hollow tubes and about the fluid outlet of each hollow tube, wherein an
   elastic fastener clamps each container to a corresponding one of the hollow tubes;
            supplying a fluid from the fluid source to the housing via the fluid inlet; and
            substantially simultaneously filling the plurality of containers with the fluid.
   17.      The method of Claim 16, further comprising detaching the plurality of containers
25 from the plurality of hollow tubes, wherein when each container is detached from the
   corresponding hollow tube, the elastic fastener seals the containers with the fluid inside.
   18.      The method of any one of Claims 16 or 17, wherein the detaching comprises
   shaking the housing until the plurality of containers slip down the hollow tubes.
   19.      The method of any one of Claims 16 or 17, wherein the detaching comprises
30 pulling away the containers from the hollow tubes.
   20.      The method of any one of Claims 16 or 18, wherein when the filled containers
   reach a threshold weight, the containers slip off the hollow tubes.
   21.      An apparatus comprising a tube removably joined to at least one elastic container
   by an open elastic valve, wherein the tube facilitates filling the elastic container with a
35 fluid, the elastic valve being configured to automatically close upon removal of the tube
   from the elastic container to seal the fluid inside the elastic container.

                                                   - 18
   22.      The apparatus of Claim 21, wherein the elastic valve comprises an elastic ring
   disposed around a neck of the elastic container.
   23.      An apparatus comprising a plurality of flexible tubes, each flexible tube joined to a
   balloon, wherein the flexible tubes facilitate filling the balloons with a fluid, wherein the
 5 balloons are disposed in sufficient proximity to one another to push on each other during
   their filling, thereby causing the tubes to flex.
   24.      The apparatus of Claim 23, wherein the flexible tubes are of different lengths.
   25.      A balloon filling apparatus comprising a plurality of tubes and a plurality of
   balloons, wherein each balloon is connected to a respective one of the tubes with a
10 connecting force not less than a weight equivalent to one of the balloons if substantially
   filled with water, the connecting force being overcomeable by applying an upward
   acceleration on the tube, wherein the apparatus is configured to fill the plurality of the
   balloons substantially simultaneously.
   26.      The balloon filling apparatus of Claim 25, wherein the connecting force is less than
15 1 Newton.
   27.      The balloon filling apparatus of Claim 25, wherein the connecting force is provided
   by an elastic valve configured to automatically seal the balloon if the connecting force is
   overcome.
   28.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein each hole of the plurality of holes at the second
20 end of the housing extends through an outer surface of the housing, the outer surface
   opposing the opening at the first end of the housing.
   29.      Apparatus comprising or including
            a conduit or manifold with at least one outlet and with an inlet for fluid to be
   ducted to egress from the or each outlet, and
25          a resiliently collared, resiliently banded and/or resiliently beaded fluid inflatable
   container constrained by the collar, band and/or bead such that its fluid entranceway is
   releasably about, but sealed to, the or its outlet;
            the arrangement being that fluid can pass through such conduit or manifold in use
   to inflate the container(s) whilst the collar, band and/or bead of the or each container
30 keeps the fluid entranceway about and sealed to the or its outlet;
            and the arrangement further being such that the fluid content weight and/or
   inertia can assist or cause the release by axial separation of the fluid entranceway of the
   or each container from the or its outlet whereupon the or each collar, band and/or bead,
   no longer expanded by the or its tubular outlet, closes the or its fluid entranceway.
35 30.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the outlet is tubular.
   31.      Apparatus comprising or including

                                                  - 19
           a manifold or manifold assembly ('manifold') providing an ability to duct fluid
   ingressing via an inlet to egress out of each of a plurality of outlets,
           a plurality of fluid inflatable containers each having its entranceway about a said
   outlet, and
 5         a resilient collar, band and/or bead of and/or about each entranceway in a
   stretched condition thereby to hold the entranceway sufficiently tightly about its outlet to
   receive a fluid fill but not so tightly that the fluid fill weight and/or inertia cannot assist
   and/or cause the release and/or extraction of its outlet and thereafter the fluid tight
   sealing of the tubular entranceway by a contraction of its collar, band and/or bead.
10 32.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein the inlet is a threaded inlet.
   33.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 31 or 32 wherein the outlets are each tubular.
   34.     An apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein the entrance way is tubular.
   35.     A water balloon assembly comprising
           a plurality of balloons each with a tubular entranceway, and
15         a collar, band or bead about or of each tubular entranceway, and
           a manifold or manifold assembly ('manifold') having an inlet to receive water and
   duct such water out of each of a plurality of tubular outlets;
           wherein each balloon is held sufficiently tightly by the collar, band or bead with
   the liquid entranceway about its tubular outlet of the manifold that water will pass out of
20 its tubular outlet through its tubular entranceway to inflate the balloon;
           and wherein each balloon can have its tubular entranceway sealed by a
   contraction of its collar, band or bead when no longer held to it's tubular outlet;
           and wherein separation of a water inflated balloon from its manifold outlet can
   be caused or assisted by the weight or inertia of the water in the balloon.
25 36.     Apparatus comprising or including
           a plurality of resiliently chokered water inflatable balloons each held by its choker
   about its tubular entranceway, and as a sleeve, on an outlet tube of a filling manifold
   connectable at its inlet to a water source.
   37.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein the choker hold on each manifold outlet
30 enables post water inflation axial separation of the sleeved tubular entranceway from its
   tubular outlet and subsequent choker sealing of the tubular entranceway of the water
   inflated balloon.
   38.     Apparatus as claimed in claim 36 or 37 wherein the weight and/or inertia of the
   water content assists and/or causes the axial separation.
35 39.     A filling procedure for multiple balloons, each to be sealed by a constrictor about
   its tubular entranceway, the procedure comprising the steps of

                                                 - 20
            providing a manifold with an inlet to receive water and multiple tubular outlets,
   each outlet having a tubular entranceway, as a sleeve, held by the constrictor on the
   tubular entranceway, and
            inflating each balloon with water and allowing drop off and/or causing drop off of
 5 each balloon to self seal reliant on its constrictor.
   40.      A water filled balloon sealed by a constrictor about its tubular entranceway.
   41.      A plurality of juxtaposed water filled balloons each in fluid communication via a
   manifold to a single water supply conduit.
   42.      A water filled balloon sealed by a constrictor about its tubular entranceway, such
10 constrictor having effected the seal after a sliding off of the tubular entranceway from a
   filling spigot.
   43.      A water filled balloon as claimed in claim 42 wherein the filling spigot was a
   tubular outlet of a manifold thread engageable to a suitable tap.
   44.      A water filled balloon sealed by a constrictor about its beaded tubular
15 entranceway, the beading assisting constrictor location about the entranceway.
   45.      An item of commerce, comprising
            (1)    apparatus as claimed in any one of claim 1 or claim 29, 31, 35, 36 and
            (2)    packaging that has the apparatus therein so as not to allow easy separation
   of each balloon or container from its associated tubular outlet from the manifold.
20 46.      An item of commerce as claimed in claim 45 wherein the apparatus allows a
   thread engagement of the inlet of the manifold to complementary faucet without
   separation of any balloon or container from the manifold.
   47.      An Apparatus suitable to provide a multiple of water filled and choker or
   constrictor sealed balloons upon water filling of the balloons using a manifold of the
25 apparatus, the apparatus comprising a said manifold with a inlet to receive water and
   multiple tubular outlets out which water is to issue, a balloon docked about each tubular
   outlet to receive issuing water, and a said choker or constrictor of each balloon to serve
   the multiple functions:
   (a)      hold its balloon to receive issuing water,
30 (b)      allow dedocking of its balloon,and
   (c)      choke or constrictor seal water content in its balloon as the water filled balloon is
            being dedocked and/or upon dedocking.
35

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2706><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+271D><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+271E><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+271F><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2720><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2721><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2704><U+2702><U+2704>

