                                    ABSTRACT
       The invention relates to a device for applying an electric field to a
suspension of cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or
vesicles, comprising at least one chamber which comprises at least two
electrodes, and at least one separating element which is movable within the
chamber between two terminal points and, if it is in a position between the
terminal points, separates at least one first compartment of the chamber from at
least one second compartment of the chamber. According to the invention each
compartment is designed to hold the suspension and comprises at least one port
for charging or discharging the suspension, so as to discharge an aliquot of the
suspension from the chamber and at the same time charge a further aliquot of the
suspension into the chamber, wherein the separating element is moved in a
second direction opposite to a first direction, and wherein the separating element
separates the aliquots from each other.

                 Device and method for large volume transfection
The invention relates to a device for applying an electric field to a suspension of
cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles,
comprising at least one chamber which comprises at least two electrodes and at
least one separating element which is movable within the chamber between two
terminal points and, if it is in a position between the terminal points, separates
at least one first compartment of the chamber from at least one second
compartment of the chamber. The invention further concerns a method for
applying an electric field to a suspension of cells, cell derivatives, organelles,
sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles.
The introduction of biologically active molecules, for example DNA, RNA or
proteins, into living cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles
and/or vesicles may, e.g., serve to examine the biological functions of these
molecules and is, moreover, an essential precondition for the success of the
therapeutic use of these molecules, e.g., in gene therapy. A preferred method
for introducing external molecules into the cells is called electroporation, which
unlike chemical methods limits undesirable changes in the structure and
function of the target cell. In electroporation the external molecules are
introduced into the cells from an aqueous solution, preferably a buffer solution
specifically adapted to the cells, or a cell culture medium, via a short current
flow, i.e., e.g., the pulse of a discharging capacitor which renders the cell
membrane transiently permeable to the external molecules. The temporary
"pores" that are formed in the cell membrane allow the biologically active
molecules to first reach the cytoplasm in which they may already perform their
function or exert any therapeutic action to be examined, and then, under
certain conditions, to also reach the cell nucleus as it is required, e.g., in gene
therapy applications.
Due to a short application of a strong electrical field, i.e. a short pulse with a
high current density, cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles
and/or vesicles may also be fused. In this so-called electrofusion the cells are,

                                         2
e.g., initially brought into close membrane contact by an inhomogeneous
electrical alternating field. The subsequent application of an electrical field pulse
leads to interaction between membrane parts, which ultimately results in fusion.
Devices comparable to those used for electroporation may be used for
electrofusion as well.
Smaller volumes of suspension of cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular
particles and/or vesicles are generally treated in a batch process in relatively
simple vessels. The solution or cell suspension, respectively, is frequently
located in a cuvette, i.e. a narrow vessel open at the top, which in the vicinity of
the bottom has two opposing, parallel electrodes in the lateral walls which serve
to apply the electrical voltage. However, such vessels are unsuitable for treating
larger volumes as the reaction space available for the electrical treatment is
limited by the limited maximal distance between the electrodes. Thus, flow
through processes in which the cell or vesicle suspension is continuously or
discontinuously fed through the reaction space between the electrodes are
often used for the electroporation or electrofusion of larger volumes.
US-A-6 150 148, for example, discloses a cuvette modified for flow-through
processes. The port of the cuvette is sealed by a cap through which a feed line
is guided. At the bottom in a region between the electrodes the cuvette has an
additional port to which a discharge is connected. Because of this arrangement
the suspension to be treated can be fed through the feed line into the reaction
space and exit it through the discharge. Due to repeated, continuous or
discontinuous exchange of the suspension in the reaction room and the
respective repeated electrical pulsing, larger volumes can be treated with this
cuvette. US-A-6 150 148 further discloses flow-through chambers which are of
tubular or slotted design and at their ends each have a connection for an input
and an output channel. The chambers themselves represent an oblong reaction
space which is enclosed by two cylindrical, concentrically arranged or flat
electrodes having plane-parallel configuration. These devices also allow larger
volumes to be treated by repetitive pulsing as they are fed through the chamber.

                                           3
However, those flow-through electroporation or even electrofusion processes
are difficult to control as the flow-through velocity has to be brought in line with
the frequency of pulsing. Heating of the suspension and formation of gas
bubbles by electrolysis pose further significant problems. Repetitive generation
of the very high currents often required for these processes leads to increased
heat production and large numbers of small gas bubbles that are formed by
electrochemical processes in the electrolyte solution in which the cells or
vesicles to be treated are suspended. These bubbles disturb the flow of the
suspension through the chamber and may result in a backflow of the
suspension already treated into the chamber. Moreover, the risk of arcing is
increased as the suspension is unevenly distributed within the chamber. These
problems, on the one hand, lead to results that are no longer reproducible and
on the other hand, if living cells are treated, to an increased mortality rate.
WO 2004/083379 A2 discloses an electroporation method for insertion of
exogenous material into vesicles with which the treatment volume of the
suspension is scalable and the time of treatment of the vesicles in the chamber
is substantially uniform. In this method, the suspension volume is greater than
the volume of the chamber of the electroporation device. An initial portion of the
suspension volume is moved into the chamber, retained and treated in the
chamber, and moved out from the chamber. An additional portion of the
suspension volume is then moved into the chamber, retained and treated in the
chamber, and moved out from the chamber. Further portions of the suspension
volume are sequentially moved into the chamber, retained and treated in the
chamber, and moved out from the chamber until the suspension volume is
depleted.
WO 2005/113820 A2 discloses an electroporation device comprising a
regulated flow electroporation chamber that enables conditions in which a
sample is uniformly processed in individual fractions or volumes in a fully closed
sterile system. The chamber includes an inlet port and an outlet port, through
which the cell suspension to be processed can be loaded into and displaced
from the chamber, respectively, so that samples of the suspension can be
processed in units which are produced by providing a boundary between

                                           4
unprocessed and processed volumes of the sample. The boundary is provided
by cycling a non-sample gas or fluid into the chamber between two fractions of
the sample. The non-sample gas or fluid may flow in or out of the chamber
through a third port of the chamber.
US 2007/0128708 Al discloses a scalable device for electroporating relatively
large volumes of a fluid medium carrying biological cells or vesicles in a
segmented chamber, wherein each segment comprises two electrodes. The
effective volume of the chamber can be varied by moving a plunger along the
longitudinal axis of the chamber. Thus, the volume chosen is directly related to
the volume of the sample to be electroporated. The sample is sucked in and
purged out of the chamber through a port disposed in the end wall of the
chamber. The sample within the chamber is processed by sequentially applying
voltage pulses to the electrode pairs of the individual segments of the chamber.
However, it is a drawback of the prior art devices and methods that the
processing of larger volumes is time-consuming since a sample already
processed has to be completely discharged from the chamber before the next
sample can be charged into the chamber. It is another drawback of the prior art
devices and methods that bubbles and cell debris are not completely removed
from the reaction chamber in a reliable manner.
It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a device and a method for
treating cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles,
with which the processing of larger volumes is accelerated, which enable
treatment under reproducible conditions, and which ensure reliable clearing of
the reaction chamber after the treatment.
The object is met by a device for applying an electric field to a suspension of
cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles as
initially specified, with which each compartment of the chamber is designed to
hold the suspension and comprises at least one port for charging or discharging
the suspension. That is, each compartment of the chamber can receive and
hold an aliquot of the suspension which is movable in and out of the chamber

                                         5
through at least two ports, wherein each compartment is provided with at least
one port through which the respective compartment can be filled with the
suspension and/or through which the suspension can be purged out of this
compartment. This advantageous configuration allows for simultaneous
charging and discharging of the chamber so that the time necessary for
changing the suspension and hence the time lag between two subsequent
electrical treatments of the suspension is minimized. This minimization results in
a significant acceleration of the processing time for large volumes, i.e. volumes
above 1 ml. It is another advantage of the device according to the invention that
it enables a scalable process by repetitive charging and processing of the
suspension. For example, if the chamber has a total volume of 1 ml, any
multiple volume thereof can be easily processed in an expedited manner.
Accordingly, the device according to the invention is not a flow-through device
but a device that enables charging and discharging of the chamber at the same
time by a kind of push-pull mechanism.
According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention at least one port is
disposed at one end of the chamber and at least one further port is disposed at
the opposite end of the chamber. Provision of the ports at opposite ends of the
chamber allows for easily establishing the push-pull mechanism where the
separating element, and thus the suspension, can be moved between two
terminal points of the chamber so as to simultaneously charge one
compartment at one end of the chamber and discharge another compartment at
the opposite end of the chamber. Moreover, such geometric arrangement
allows for optimal integration of the device according to the invention in an
electroporation or electrofusion system as the ports are separated from each
other and thus can be accessed from different ends of the device.
In an embodiment where at least two ports are disposed at each end of the
chamber, one port may be used as an inlet port for charging the suspension
while the other port may be used as an outlet port for discharging the
suspension.

                                          6
Minimization of dead volumes can be achieved by reducing the size of the
chamber port(s), in particular the inlet port(s). An additional or alternative
measure for ensuring small dead volumes can be the use of Y-connections of
tubes close to the chamber outlet/inlet ports.
Moreover, attaching tubes to the outlet ports of the device allows for pressure
peak compensation in the chamber.
In another embodiment of the invention the separating element is coupled to at
least one adjusting element which operates and/or controls the separating
element. In an advantageous embodiment the adjusting element is disposed
outside the chamber so that each compartment is devoid of any interfering
element that might affect the function of the device according to the invention.
For example, the separating element may be moved within the chamber at least
partially by means of the adjusting element.
The adjusting element can be, e.g., a rotatable body which is operatively
coupled with the separating element. For example, the rotatable body may be a
rotor-like element that moves the separating element such that it performs a
rotational movement. Such embodiments ensure precise control and constant
movement of the separating element, in particular if the chamber has a curved
shape. However, in an alternative embodiment of the invention, the adjusting
element and hence the separating element may perform a movement in another
direction, e.g., in a linear direction.
The separating element may be driven by the adjusting element via a
component selected from the group consisting of a worm gear, a spur gear, a
bevel gear, a gear rod, a belt drive, and a square-bar steel. However, other gear
mechanisms or power transmission elements can be used as well, if suitable.
According to another exemplary embodiment of the invention the separating
element is a sealing member which ensures liquidproof and/or gasproof
separation of the different compartments of the chamber if it is in a position
between the terminal points. For example, the separating element can comprise

                                          7
a flexible and/or elastic material. Due to its elastic deformability, the separating
element is further capable of compensating pressure peaks within the chamber.
The separating element can be designed, e.g., as 2-component plastic part
including an elastic material for better sealing properties. The separating
element may further comprise sealing lips for optimal clearing of the chamber.
To this end, the sealing lips can be oriented in a direction adapted to the inner
surface of the chamber and/or the surface of the electrodes and/or the other
components of the separating element. In an advantageous embodiment of the
invention a potential deflection of the separating element or parts thereof can be
limited by bump stops, so as to maintain its sealing function.
In one particular embodiment the separating element comprises at least two
spaced parts, wherein the inner space between the spaced parts of the
separating element comprises a compressible material. Such design provides
effective pressure compensation so that the separating element acts as a kind
of cushion that balances pressure variations in the chamber. The compressible
material may simply be air or any other gas, or a compressible foam or cellular
material.
According to another exemplary embodiment of the invention the chamber
comprises at least two segments, wherein each segment comprises at least one
electrode. It is an advantage of this embodiment that each segment can be
electrically addressed individually so that controlled generation of electric fields
within the chamber can be precisely achieved. For example, in order to avoid
arcing and/or undesired heating of the suspension, voltage pulses can be
applied to different segments of a compartment sequentially. To this end, each
segment can be provided with at least one first electrode and at least one
second electrode, wherein the second electrode may be a common electrode of
at least two segments. In one embodiment of the invention each compartment
of the chamber may comprise at least one segment being provided with at least
one electrode.
The chamber of the device according to the invention comprises corresponding
recesses of two components which are attached to each other. That is, the

                                          8
device according to the invention can be assembled, e.g., by attaching two
components to each other, wherein each component comprises a recess that
corresponds to the recess of the other component. If these two components are
attached to each other, their aligned recesses form the chamber of the device.
In order to be capable of producing an electric field within the chamber, each
recess can be provided with at least one electrode. At least some of the
electrodes may be segmented. For example, one half of the electrodes (at one
side of the symmetry axis) can be segmented while the other half of the
electrodes (at the other side of the symmetry axis) can be a single,
unsegmented electrode which may be used as a counter electrode. In an
advantageous embodiment the two components are identical so that cost
effective production is ensured. As the identical components are rotationally
symmetric, easy assembly by attaching the components to each other is still
possible in this case.
In one particular embodiment the chamber further comprises at least one base
member which is at least substantially made of an insulating material and
includes at least one surface to which the electrode is attached, wherein said
surface comprises at least one conductive area designed to provide an
electrical connection between the electrode and at least one electric contact
point. The conductive area may be, e.g., at least one hole, a three dimensional
feature of the surface, or a flat area. The hole can be a bore in the base
member which is provided with an electrically conductive material, at least at its
inner surface. The hole may be at least partially filled with an electrically
conductive material providing an electrically conductive path from the electrode
to the same or another surface of the base member. The three dimensional
feature may be selected from the group consisting of pits, bumps, lines,
recesses, depressions, protrusions and wells. The conductive area may be
electrically coupled with at least one electric contact point via at least one
conductive path, e.g., a Printed Circuit Board (PCB) track. The electric contact
point is made of an electrically conductive material and designed to be
contacted by at least one electric contact, e.g., a spring contact, providing direct
or indirect electric connection to a power source. Using such base members
allows for cost-effective production of the device according to the invention

                                           9
since members including electrodes and corresponding contact points can be
produced in a time-saving one-step manufacturing process. Moreover, in this
embodiment electrode design is independent of the location of the electrical
contacts so that optimized electrode design can be combined with an optimal
electrical connection. The means for contacting the electrodes can be designed
independently of electrode design and position.
In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the base member can be a
Printed Circuit Board (PCB) or the like. The PCB may include an internal
thermistor (thermal resistor) for better temperature control, so as to allow for
slowing down processing of the suspension in order to allow heat dissipation.
For example, the electrodes can be made of an electrically conductive polymer,
in particular a polymer doped with electrically conductive material. The polymer
may consist of or be at least based on polycarbonate, polyetheretherketone,
polypropylene, polyamide, polyphenylensulfide or a mixture of these polymers.
The polymer can be doped with, e.g., carbon fibres, graphite, soot, carbon
nanotubes and/or an intrinsically conductive synthetic material. Alternatively, an
intrinsically conductive polymer, such as polyaniline, polyacetylene, poly-para
phenylene, poly-para-phenylensulfide, polypyrrole, polythiophene,
polypropylene or the like, may be used as electrode material.
In order to provide a suitable base member, the polymer can be molded over
one side of the base member provided with at least two conductive areas at one
or more sides of the base member, wherein the polymer forms a close physical
contact at least partially to at least one conductive area, wherein the conductive
areas can be flat or the surface of a pit in or a hole through the base member
and the polymer extends into the pits or through the holes and forms electrically
conductive paths from the electrodes to contact points not overmolded with the
conductive polymer.
It is one aspect of the invention to provide a device for applying an electric field
to a suspension of cells, organelles and/or vesicles, comprising at least one
chamber for holding the suspension, wherein the chamber comprises at least

                                           10
one electrode, and wherein the chamber further comprises at least one base
member which is at least substantially made of an insulating material and
includes a surface to which the electrode is attached, wherein said surface
includes at least one conductive area designed to provide an electrical
connection between the electrode and at least one electric contact point. The
conductive area on the surface of the base member may be a pit or hole being
at least partially overmolded or filled with an electrically conductive material and
providing an electrically conductive path from the electrode to the contact point.
With this device it may be beneficial if the electrode and the electrically
conductive material are made of the same material. For example, the electrodes
can be made of an electrically conductive polymer, in particular a polymer
doped with electrically conductive material or an intrinsically conductive polymer
as described above. The polymer can be molded over one side of the base
member and can form a close physical contact to a flat conductive area, or
extend into conductively plated pits or through conductively plated holes, so as
to form electrically conductive paths from the electrode to the contact point. In
an advantageous embodiment of the invention the base member can be a
Printed Circuit Board (PCB) or the like.
Contacting of electrodes by overmolding of PCBs allows for designing the
electrodes independently of the location of the electrical contacts so that
optimized electrode design can be combined with an optimal electrical
connection. That is, the means for contacting the electrodes can be designed
independently of electrode design and position. The PCB may include an
internal thermistor or any other temperature sensitive electrical component, for
better temperature control, so as to allow for slowing down processing of the
suspension to allow heat dissipation.
Alternatively, the electrodes of the chamber may be made of metal, e.g.,
aluminum, or any other conductive material.
The device according to the invention may further comprise means for fixing the
separating element outside the chamber, so that the scalable chamber can be
easily transformed into a static chamber having a fixed volume. For example,

                                          11
the static variant of the device may have a fixed processing volume of about 0.5
ml, 1.0 ml, 1.5 ml, or 2.0 ml.
In order to seal the chamber against other components of the device according
to the invention, at least one gasket can be disposed between the adjusting
element and the chamber.
The chamber may further comprise at least one sealing inlay which at least
partially extends along one side of the chamber so as to seal this side against
the environment. This sealing inlay may be disposed at one side of the chamber
opposite to the gasket mentioned above, i.e. at the side of the chamber
opposite to the adjusting element. If the sealing inlay comprises an elastic and
compressible material, it additionally enables pressure compensation within the
chamber. The sealing inlay can be made of silicone foam or a similar inert
material.
According to another exemplary embodiment the device according to the
invention may further comprise stacking means for attaching this device to
another device according to the invention. That is, the performance of an
electroporation or electrofusion system can be easily enhanced by stacking a
plurality of devices according to the invention, so as to increase the volume
processable per time unit. For example, the stacked devices may be coupled
such that a plurality of chambers is connected in parallel. In this manner, it is
advantageously possible to increase the total system volume, e.g., 10-fold.
Another approach to increase the capacity of the device according to the
invention would be the provision of two or more chambers within one device. In
this case, the chambers can be arranged in parallel or concentric.
With the stackable and/or multi-chamber version the total system volume can
be easily increased up to 10 ml or even 100 ml or more. Basically, the number
of cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles to be
processed is not limited anyway. For example, a suitable scale-up enables

                                           12
processing of 107 to 108, 107 to 109 or 107 to 1010 cells, cell derivatives,
organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles.
In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the device is designed such
that it has an upright orientation in the functional state. This upright orientation
in combination with chamber outlet port(s) being disposed at the top of the
chamber insures complete bubble removal.
The object is further met by a method for applying an electric field to a
suspension of cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or
vesicles, comprising:
a) Charging an aliquot of the suspension into at least one chamber of a device
   for applying an electric field to the suspension, said chamber comprising at
   least two electrodes, wherein a separating element disposed within the
   chamber is moved in a first direction;
b) Applying a voltage pulse to the aliquot via at least two electrodes of the
   chamber;
c) Discharging the aliquot from the chamber and at the same time charging a
   further aliquot of the suspension into the chamber, wherein the separating
   element is moved in a second direction opposite to the first direction, and
   wherein the separating element separates the aliquots from each other;
d) Applying a voltage pulse to the further aliquot via at least two electrodes of
   the chamber.
The process can be terminated at this point by completely discharging the
further aliquot from the chamber, wherein the separating element is moved in
the first direction opposite to the second direction.
In the advantageous method according to the invention simultaneous charging
and discharging of the chamber is accomplished so that the time necessary for
changing the suspension and hence the time lag between two subsequent
electrical treatments of the suspension is minimized. This minimization results in
a significant acceleration of the processing time for large volumes, i.e. volumes
above 1 ml.

                                          13
The method according to the invention can be continued for further processing
of larger volumes by
e) Discharging the further aliquot from the chamber and at the same time
   charging a further aliquot of the suspension into the chamber, wherein the
   separating element is moved in the first direction opposite to the second
   direction, and wherein the separating element separates the aliquots from
   each other;
f) Applying a voltage pulse to the further aliquot via at least two electrodes of
   the chamber;
g) Optionally, repeating steps c) to f) for further aliquots of the suspension until
   the whole suspension is processed.
Accordingly, due to repetitive charging and processing of the suspension, the
method according to the invention is a scalable process. For example, if the
chamber has a total volume of 1 ml, any multiple volume thereof can be easily
processed in an expedited manner.
For example, the device used in said method can be the device according to the
invention as described above.
For example, the separating element can be moved within the chamber at least
partially by means of an adjusting element which is operatively coupled with the
separating element. If the adjusting element is a rotatable body, e.g., a rotor-like
element, the separating element may be moved by rotating the adjusting
element. Such embodiment ensures precise control and constant movement of
the separating element, in particular if the chamber has a curved shape.
The suspension can be charged into and discharged from the chamber by
means of a pumping element, e.g., a vacuum pump or a peristaltic pump or the
like. To this end, the device according to the invention may be provided with
Luer slip connectors, or any other connectors which are attachable and
detachable, that render the device compatible with common pumping systems.
The pumping pressure is supported by the movement of the separating element
which wipes along the inner surfaces of the chamber so that complete
displacement of the processed sample from the chamber is ensured. Moreover,

                                           14
the combination of pumping and wiping results in effective removal of air
bubbles, cell debris, and any other particles.
 In particular applications it might be necessary or advantageous to provide the
cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles to be
treated and the substrates or reactants in separate containments and mix them
just prior to filling of the chamber and the subsequent treatment.
The invention is further exemplarily described in detail with reference to the
figures.
 Figure 1 shows an exemplary embodiment of an individual component of a
device according to the invention comprising a rotatable adjusting means and a
curved chamber design.
a) Separating element in a position at a lower terminal point
b) Separating element in an intermediate position
 Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of different positions of the
separating element of the device according to Figure 1.
a) Position at a lower terminal point
b) Position at an upper terminal point
c) Intermediate position
d) Parking position
 Figure 3 shows a perspective view of the outer side of the device according to
 Figure 1.
 Figure 4 shows different views of the base member according to Figure 3.
a) Inner side of the base member with electrodes;
b) Outer side of the base member with conductive areas.
 Figure 5 shows details of three exemplary embodiments of the device
according to Figures 3 and 4.
a) Electrode extending through holes

                                           15
b) Electrode attached to a flat surface
c) Electrode attached to a recess
Figures 1a and lb show an exemplary embodiment of an individual component
of a device 1 according to the invention. The device 1 comprises a base
member 2 having a curved recess 3 which is provided with four electrodes 4, 5.
Three of these electrodes are segment electrodes 4 while one electrode is a
counter electrode 5. The base member 2 represents one component of the
device 1 which is assembled of two components that are attached to each
other, wherein at least the inner sides of these components are identical. That
is, the base member 2 and a second base member (base member 30 shown in
Figure 3) having an identical inner side are attached to each other so that the
recess 3 and a corresponding recess of the second base member form a
chamber 6 for holding a suspension of cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub
cellular particles and/or vesicles. In this chamber 6 an electric field can be
applied to the cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or
vesicles, e.g., for transferring biologically active molecules such as nucleic acids
or proteins into the cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles
and/or vesicles. To this end, the electrodes 4, 5 of base member 2 and the
corresponding electrodes of the second base member establish electrode pairs,
wherein the segment electrodes 4 of base member 2 and an oppositely
arranged counter electrode of the second base member establish three
electrode pairs while the counter electrode 5 of base member 2 and three
oppositely arranged segment electrodes of the second base member also
establish three electrode pairs. In this configuration the counter electrode 5 of
base member 2 and the counter electrode of the second base member are each
common electrodes of three segments so that the chamber 6 comprises six
segments, wherein each segment is provided with one segment electrode and
an area of one common counter electrode.
Two ports 7, 8 are disposed at one end 9 of the chamber 6 and two ports 10, 11
are disposed at the opposite end 12 of the chamber 6. One port of the upper
ports 7, 8 can be used as inlet port for charging the chamber 6 and the other
port of ports 7, 8 can be used as outlet port for discharging the chamber 6.

                                         16
Similarly, one port of the lower ports 10, 11 can be used as inlet port for
charging the chamber 6 and the other port of ports 10, 11 can be used as outlet
port for discharging the chamber 6. Accordingly, each end 9, 12 is provided with
two ports 7, 8, 10, 11 through which the respective compartment of the chamber
6 can be filled with the suspension and/or through which the suspension can be
purged out of this compartment. This configuration allows for simultaneous
charging and discharging of the chamber 6 so that the time necessary for
changing the suspension and hence the time lag between two subsequent
electrical treatments of the suspension is minimized. Provision of the ports 7, 8,
10, 11 at opposite ends 9, 12 of the chamber 6 allows for easily establishing a
push-pull mechanism where the suspension can be moved between the two
ends 9, 12 of the chamber 6 so as to simultaneously charge one compartment
at one end 9 of the chamber 6 and discharge another compartment at the
opposite end 12 of the chamber 6. Accordingly, the device 1 is not a flow
through device but a device that enables charging and discharging of the
chamber 6 at the same time by a push-pull mechanism wherein the liquid
always leaves the chamber on the same side as it entered it.
In order to separate the suspension that has already been treated by the
electric field from the suspension to be treated, a separating element 13 is
provided. The separating element 13 can be moved within the chamber 6
between two terminal points 14, 15 and divides the chamber 6 into two
compartments if it is in a position between the two terminal points 14, 15 as
depicted in Figures 1b and 2c. In the exemplary embodiment depicted in
Figures 1 and 2 the separating element 13 comprises two parts 16, 17 which
are spaced from each other and flank an inner space 18 comprising a
compressible material. The two spaced parts 16, 17 are wiper-like fingers so
that the separating element 13 is a sealing member which ensures liquidproof
and/or gasproof separation of the different compartments of the chamber 6 if it
is in a position between the terminal points 14, 15 (Figures 1b and 2c). To this
end, the separating element 13 can be made of a flexible and/or elastic material
so that is also capable of compensating pressure peaks within the chamber 6.
The separating element 13 may further comprise sealing lips for optimal
clearing of the chamber 6. The compressible material that fills the inner space

                                           17
18 may be air or any other gas, or a compressible foam or cellular material, so
as to provide effective pressure compensation in the chamber 6. Accordingly,
the separating element 13 also acts as a kind of cushion that balances pressure
variations in the chamber 6.
The separating element 13 is coupled to an adjusting element 19 which
operates and/or controls the separating element 13. That is, the separating
element 13 can be moved within the chamber 6 by means of the adjusting
element 19. The adjusting element 19 is disposed outside the chamber 6 so
that each compartment of the chamber 6 is devoid of any interfering element
that might affect the function of the device 1. The adjusting element 19
comprises a rotatable body 20 which is operatively coupled with the spaced
parts 16, 17 of the separating element 13. In this exemplary embodiment the
rotatable body 20 is a rotor-like element that moves the separating element 13
such that it can perform a rotational movement along the double arrow 21. This
embodiment ensures precise control and constant movement of the separating
element 13 within the curved chamber 6. The rotatable body 20 is surrounded
by a gasket 22 sealing the adjusting element 19 against the chamber 6, wherein
the rotatable body 20 is connected to the gasket 22 via spokes 23 made of an
elastic material.
The device 1 further comprises a sealing inlay 24 which extends along the outer
side of the chamber 6 opposite to the gasket 22 described above and seals the
compartments 26 and 27 of the chamber 6 against each other. The sealing inlay
24 is made of an elastic and compressible material, e.g., silicone foam or a
similar inert material, so that it enables pressure compensation within the
chamber.
Advantageously, the device 1 includes means for fixing the separating element
13 outside the chamber 6, so that the scalable chamber 6 can be easily
transformed into a static chamber 6 having a fixed volume as shown in Figure
2d. To this end, the separating element 13 is moved by means of the adjusting
element 19 to a parking site 25 where it is fixed, so as to provide the entire
volume of the chamber 6 for processing of the suspension in a batch process.

                                          18
Figures 2a-d show different positions of the separating element (13) of the
device 1 according to Figure 1. The method according to the invention is a
scalable process for electrically treating a suspension of cells, cell derivatives,
organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles. In Figure 2a) the separating
element 13 is set to a position at the lower terminal point 15. If the separating
element 13 is rotated to a position at the upper terminal point 14 (Figure 2b)), a
first aliquot of the suspension is injected into one of the lower ports 10, 11 and
thus charged into the chamber 6. The first aliquot is then processed in the
chamber 6 by applying an electric field to the suspended cells, cell derivatives,
organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles. Subsequently, the processed
first aliquot is discharged through one of the lower ports 10, 11 by rotating the
separating element 13 back to the position at the lower terminal point 15 and, at
the same time, a second aliquot of the suspension is injected into one of the
upper ports 7, 8 and thus charged into the chamber 6. The second aliquot is
then processed in the chamber 6 by applying an electric field to the suspended
cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles.
Subsequently, the processed second aliquot is discharged through one of the
upper ports 7, 8 by rotating the separating element 13 back to the position at
the upper terminal point 14 and, at the same time, a third aliquot of the
suspension is injected into one of the lower ports 10, 11 and thus charged into
the chamber 6. The third aliquot is then processed in the chamber 6 by applying
an electric field to the suspended cells, cell derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular
particles and/or vesicles. This push-pull mechanism with simultaneous charging
and discharging of the suspension can be repeated until the whole suspension
is treated.
The separating element 13 separates the chamber 6 in two compartments 26,
27 if it is in a position between the terminal points 14, 15 (Figure 2c)), wherein
each compartment 26, 27 of the chamber 6 is designed to hold a suspension
and comprises two ports 7, 8 and 10, 11 for charging or discharging the
chamber 6. Each compartment 26, 27 can receive and hold an aliquot of the
suspension which is movable in and out of the chamber 6 through at the ports
7, 8 and 10, 11. The compartments 26, 27 are each further provided with one
port 7, 10 through which the respective compartment 26, 27 can be filled with

                                           19
the suspension and with one port 8, 11 through which the suspension can be
purged out of this compartment 26, 27. When the separating element 13 is
rotated, one compartment 26, 27 of the chamber 6 is filled with an aliquot of the
sample, while another aliquot of the sample is discharged and pushed out from
the other compartment 26, 27. A container for incoming sample can be
connected to an upper and a lower inlet port 7, 10 and an upper and a lower
outlet port 8, 11 can be connected to a reservoir for processed sample. As
becomes apparent from Figure 2, the device 1 does not work in flow through
fashion but in a push-pull manner wherein injected sample is discharged after
processing on the same side where it was charged. The chamber 6 possesses
six electrode segments, one of which being always covered by the separating
element 13 and thus is not usable. For example, the chamber 6 can take 1000pl
per cycle. Thus, in this case, 2 000pl can be processed in a complete cycle.
In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the separating element is
adjusted such that it covers exactly one or more segment electrodes so that the
same electrical parameters can be established within each other electrode
segment.
The static variant of the device 1 does not allow the separating element 13 to
rotate. Instead the separating element 13 is fixed outside the chamber 6 at the
parking site 25, not covering any electrode segment as shown in Figure 2d.
With this variant all six electrode segments can be used and thus 12 00pl
sample can be processed. For example, the sample can be injected at a lower
or upper inlet port 7, 10 of the device 1 and can be collected at the lower outlet
port 11. Repetitive filling is not possible in this state of the device 1.
Figure 3 shows a perspective view of the outer side of the device 1 according
to Figure 1. The device 1 comprises a base member 30, the inner side of which
(not visible) being identical to the inner side of the base member 2 according to
Figure 1. The base member 30 represents a further component of the device 1
which is assembled of two components (base members 2 and 30) that are
attached to each other. At its outer side, the base member 30 is provided with
connectors 31 for connecting conduits to the ports 7, 8, 10, 11 of the chamber 6

                                           20
according to Figures 1 and 2. One or more containers for the suspension to be
processed and one or more reservoirs for processed suspension can be
connected to the connectors 31 via suitable conduits. The suspension can be
charged into and discharged from the chamber by means of a pumping
element, e.g., a vacuum pump or a peristaltic pump or the like, which may be
connected to the suspension circuit between the container(s)/reservoir(s) and
the connectors 31. In order to render the device 1 compatible with common
conduits and pumping systems, the connectors 31 can be Luer slip or Luer lock
connectors.
The adjusting element 19 of the device 1 may be connected to a power unit (not
shown), e.g., an electric motor, via a worm gear, a spur gear, a bevel gear, a
gear rod, a belt drive, a square-bar steel, or similar gear mechanisms or power
transmission elements (not shown).
The base member 30 further comprises a multitude of conductive areas 32 for
providing electric connection to the electrodes in the chamber. The conductive
areas 32 may comprise an electrically conductive polymer, in particular a
polymer doped with electrically conductive material or an intrinsically conductive
polymer. The conductive areas 32 are designed to provide an electrical
connection between the electrodes and at least one electric contact point 33. In
this embodiment the conductive areas 32 are holes in the base member 30
which are at least partially filled with the electrically conductive material. The
conductive areas 32 are electrically coupled with at least one electric contact
point 33 via at least one conductive path (not shown). The electric contact point
can be contacted by at least one electric contact, so as to provide direct or
indirect electric connection to a power source.
Figures 4a and 4b show different views of the base member 30 according to
Figure 3. The inner surface 34 of the base member 30 is depicted in Figure 4a).
Electrodes 4, 5 are attached to the inner surface 34. Three of these electrodes
4, 5 are segment electrodes 4 while one of these electrodes 4, 5 is a larger
counter electrode 5. The electrodes 4, 5 are attached and connected to
conductive areas 32 which extend from the inner surface 34 to the outer surface

                                            21
35 of the base member 30. For example, the electrodes 4, 5 and the electrically
conductive material within the conductive area 32 are made of the same
material, e.g., an electrically conductive polymer, in particular a polymer doped
with electrically conductive material or an intrinsically conductive polymer as
described above. The polymer can be molded over the inner surface 34 and the
conductive area 32 of the base member 30 and extend through holes of the
conductive area 32 as shown in detail in Figure 5a). The conductive areas 32
are electrically coupled with at least one electric contact point 33 via at least
one conductive path (not shown). The electric contact point 33 can be contacted
by at least one electric contact, so as to provide direct or indirect electric
connection to a power source. In an advantageous embodiment of the invention
the base member 30 is a Printed Circuit Board (PCB).
Figures 5a-c show details of three alternative embodiments of the device
according to Figures 3 and 4. As described with reference to Figures 3 and 4,
the base member 30 includes conductive areas 32 to which electrodes 4 are
attached. In the embodiment shown in Figure 5a), which is also realized in the
device shown in Figures 3 and 4, the conductive area 32 comprises holes 36
that are at least partially filled with an electrically conductive material. If the
conductive material protrudes a hole 36 and forms a kind of bulge 37 at the
outer surface 35 of the base member 30, stability of the connection of the
electrode 4 to the base member 30 is increased in an advantageous manner. In
the embodiments shown in Figures 5b) and 5c), the conductive areas 32 do not
comprise holes that are filled with a conductive material but either a flat surface
(Figure 5b)) or a recess (Figure 5c)) comprising an electrically conductive
material. Thus, the electrodes 4 can alternatively be either attached to a flat
surface or a recess of the base member 30.

                                         22
Claims
1.   Device for applying an electric field to a suspension of cells, cell
     derivatives, organelles, sub-cellular particles and/or vesicles, comprising
     at least one chamber which comprises at least two segments, each
     segment comprising at least one first electrode and at least one second
     electrode, wherein the second electrode is a common electrode of at least
     two segments, and wherein the chamber comprises corresponding
     recesses of two components which are attached to each other, each
     recess being provided with at least one electrode.
2.   Device according to claim 1, wherein the chamber further comprises at
     least one base member which is at least substantially made of an
     insulating material and includes at least one surface to which the electrode
     is attached, wherein said surface comprises at least one conductive area
     designed to provide an electrical connection between the electrode and at
     least one electric contact point.
3.   Device according to claim 2, wherein the conductive area is a pit or hole
     being at least partially overmolded or filled with an electrically conductive
     material and providing an electrically conductive path from the electrode to
     the contact point.
4.   Device according to claim 3, wherein the electrode and the electrically
     conductive material are made of the same material.
5.   Device according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the base member is
     a Printed Circuit Board (PCB).
6.   Device according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the chamber
     comprises at least one sealing inlay which at least partially extends along
     one side of the chamber, wherein the sealing inlay comprises a
     compressible material.

                                        23
7.   Device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein each segment is
     electrically addressable individually.
8.   Device according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein at least some of the
     electrodes are segmented.
9.   Device according to claim 8, wherein one half of the electrodes is
     segmented while the other half of the electrodes is a single, unsegmented
     electrode.
10.  Device according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the two components
     are identical and the identical components are rotationally symmetric.
11.  Device according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising at least
     one separating element which is movable within the chamber between two
     terminal points.
12.  Device according to claim 11, wherein the separating element is fixed
     outside the chamber.
13.  Device according to claim 12, wherein the separating element is fixed at a
     parking site.
LONZA COLOGNE GMBH
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P42314AU01

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
