                                           ABSTRACT
           The use of neutral aqueous solutions of glyoxal (pH approximately 6 to 8.5)
  scavenges H2 S that is present in natural gas and in oil better than glyoxal alone or base
  alone. The resulting scavenger combination significantly increases the reaction rate and
5 the overall scavenging efficiency, i.e. capacity over glyoxal used alone. A buffer may be
  optionally used. In another embodiment, the combination of non-nitrogen-containing
  surfactants and glyoxal results in a significant increase in the reaction rate and the
  overall scavenging efficiency, i.e. capacity as compared to glyoxal used alone.

                                                1
             SYNERGISTIC H2S/MERCAPTAN SCAVENGERS USING GLYOXAL
   [0001] The present application is a divisional of parent application no 2012231398, the
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The reader is directed to that
   earlier specification for aspects described herein but not claimed.
 5                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001A]     The present invention relates to methods and compositions for scavenging
   H2S and/or mercaptans from fluids, and more particularly relates, in one non-limiting
   embodiment, to methods and compositions for scavenging H2S and/or mercaptans from
   fluids using glyoxal and a base and/or a non-nitrogen surfactant.
 0                                TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
   [0002]      In the drilling, downhole completion, production, transport, storage, and
   processing of crude oil and natural gas, including waste water associated with crude oil
   and gas production, and in the storage of residual fuel oil, H2S and/or mercaptans are
   often encountered. The presence of H2S and mercaptans is objectionable because they
 5 often react with other hydrocarbons or fuel system components. Another reason that the
   H2S and mercaptans are objectionable is that they are often highly corrosive. Still
   another reason that H2S and mercaptans are undesirable is that they have highly
   noxious odors. The odors resulting from H2S and mercaptans are detectable by the
   human nose at comparatively low concentrations and are well known. For example,
?0 mercaptans are used to odorize natural gas and used as a repellant by skunks and
   other animals.
   [0003]      The predominant H2S and mercaptan scavengers for natural gas and crude
   oil are monoethanolamine (MEA) triazines and monomethylamine (MMA) triazines.
   These compounds contain nitrogen and when used in sufficient concentration can
?5 cause problems for certain refineries. There have been instances where operators have
   required the use of a non-nitrogen containing H2 S scavenger. Glyoxal (C2 H2 0 2 ) or
   acrolein (C3H4 0) has been used as H2 S scavengers in these instances. Glyoxal is a
   slow acting scavenger and may be corrosive to mild steel. Acrolein is effective
   scavenger but an extremely toxic substance which operators do not like to use.

                                           2
 [0004]       It would be desirable if a new non-nitrogen-containing H2S and
mercaptan scavenger could be discovered which is very effective, but which
overcomes the deficiencies of prior scavengers.
                                    SUMMARY
 [0005]       There is provided in one non-limiting embodiment a composition
for synergistically scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid,
where the composition includes dialdehyde, a base, a non-nitrogen-containing
surfactant and optionally a buffer.
 [0006]       There is additionally provided in one non-restrictive version, a
method for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid that
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, an aqueous phase, a gaseous phase,
a hydrocarbon phase and mixtures thereof. The method involves contacting the
fluid with a composition in an effective amount for synergistically scavenging
hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans. The composition comprises at least one
dialdehyde, and second component that is at least one base and/or at least
one non-nitrogen-containing surfactant. The amount of hydrogen sulfide and/or
mercaptans scavenged is greater as compared with a composition having a
greater amount of dialdehyde where the base is absent.
 [0007]       There is further provided in one non-restrictive version, a method
for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid that includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, an aqueous phase, a gaseous phase, a hydro
carbon phase and mixtures thereof. The method involves contacting the fluid
with a composition in an effective amount for synergistically scavenging hydro
gen sulfide and/or mercaptans. The composition comprises at least one dialde
hyde, and at least one base (in the absence of the non-nitrogen-containing
surfactant). The amount of hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans scavenged is
greater as compared with a composition having a greater amount of dialdehyde
where the base is absent.
 [0008]       Also, there is alternatively provided in a non-limiting embodiment
a method for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid that
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, an aqueous phase, a gaseous phase,
a hydrocarbon phase and mixtures thereof. The method involves contacting the

                                          3
fluid with a composition in an effective amount for synergistically scavenging
hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans, where the composition includes at least
one dialdehyde, and at least one non-nitrogen-containing surfactant (in the
absence of at least one base), where the amount of hydrogen sulfide and/or
mercaptans scavenged is greater as compared with a composition having a
greater amount of dialdehyde where the non-nitrogen-containing surfactant is
absent.
 [0009]        Any of these methods may optionally include corrosion inhibitors
such as phosphate esters, sulfur-oxygen phosphates or polyphosphate esters
and the like.
                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0010]        FIG. 1 is a graph of normalized H2S concentration as a function of
time for H2S scavenged from oil at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa) and 25*C where
the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% CO2, where H2S scavenger is injected
at the beginning of the test and accordingly the normalized H2S concentration
becomes lowered; the graph compares glyoxal alone and glyoxal together with
alkali (KOH) in a 90/10 weight ratio (glyoxal 40% aqueous solution);
 [0011]        FIG. 2 is a graph showing the results of a H2S uptake test show
ing maximum H2S scavenged as a function of various weight ratios of alkali
(KOH)/glyoxal at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa) and 25*C where the oil contained
3000 ppm H2S and 5% CO2;
 [0012]        FIG. 3 is graph showing H2 S scavenging rates as a function of
various weight ratios of alkali (KOH)/glyoxal at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa) and
25*C where the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% C02;
 [0013]        FIG. 4 is a graph showing the results of a H2 S uptake test show
ing mass uptake as a function of various weight ratios of non-nitrogen-contain
ing surfactant/glyoxal at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa) and room temperature where
the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% C02; and
 [0014]        FIG. 5 is graph showing H2 S scavenging rates as a function of
various weight ratios of non-nitrogen-containing surfactant/glyoxal at 1 atmos
phere (0.1 MPa) and room temperature where the oil contained 3000 ppm H2 5
and 5% CO2.

                                          4
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0015]       It has been surprisingly discovered that neutral aqueous solutions
(about pH 6 to 8.5) of glyoxal based scavenger removes hydrogen sulfide
present in natural gas and in oil more completely and faster than glyoxal alone,
and is thus also expected to remove mercaptans as well. The process by which
the hydrogen sulfide is effectively removed from gas, water or oil involves
introducing a synergistic combination of glyoxal and alkaline aqueous solution
into the H2S-containing system. The synergistic scavenger combination signif
icantly increases the reaction rate and the overall scavenging efficiency over
introducing glyoxal alone. The synergy may be seen from the data discussed
below.
 [0016]       In specific applications to remove H2 S from crude oil, the
hydrogen sulfide/mercaptan scavenger may be introduced in the crude oil (or
other fluid) at concentrations from about 10 independently to about 10,000
ppm, in a different embodiment from about 25 independently to about 7,500
ppm, alternatively from about 50 independently to about 5,000 ppm. The term
"independently" when used in connection with a range means that any lower
threshold may be combined with any upper threshold to give a valid alternative
range.
 [0017]       Glyoxal may be used as an H2 S scavenger in crude oil and other
applications where conventional nitrogen-containing compounds (e.g. triazines)
may cause corrosion problems in downstream equipment and towers. How
ever, the low pH (pH of approximately 2.5 to 3) of solutions where glyoxal is the
only active component may be corrosive to injection pumps and crude oil
pipelines. In addition, due to its slow kinetics, the efficiency of glyoxal alone in
these applications is significantly lower than the expected theoretical values (2
mol H2S/3 mol glyoxal). The new scavenger composition offers significantly
enhanced kinetics and improved efficiency due to a strong synergistic effect
between glyoxal and alkali solutions in neutral pH range (about 6 to about 8.5).
 [0018]       Besides glyoxal, other dialdehydes expected to be useful in the
method described herein include, but are not necessarily limited to, malondial-

                                            5
dehyde, succindialdehyde, glutaraldehyde, and the like, and combinations
thereof.
 [0019]        Useful alkali compounds or bases expected to be useful in the
method described herein include, but are not necessarily limited to, sodium
hydroxide (NaOH), potassium hydroxide (KOH), barium hydroxide (Ba(OH) 2),
cesium hydroxide (CsOH), strontium hydroxide (Sr(OH) 2), calcium hydroxide
(Ca(OH) 2), ammonium hydroxide (NH40H), lithium hydroxide (LiOH) and the
like and combinations thereof.
 [0020]        In one non-limiting embodiment, sufficient base is added so that
the pH of the composition ranges from about 6 independently to about 8.5;
alternatively from about 7 independently to about 8.5; in another non-limiting
embodiment from about 7 independently to about 8. Alternatively, the amount
of base (e.g. KOH) may range from about 0.5 independently to about 10 wt%,
alternatively from about 0.5 wt% independently to about 4 wt% based on the
total scavenging composition.
 [0021]        In a different non-restrictive version, the weight ratio of base to
dialdehyde ranges from about 15/85 independently to 0.1/99.9, alternatively to
5/95, where the dialdehyde is in a 40 wt% aqueous solution; and in another
alternate embodiment the weight ratio may be from about 25/75 independently
to 5/95, again where the dialdehyde is in a 40 wt% aqueous solution. The
alkaline aqueous solution may be from about 5 to 45 wt%.
 [0022]        In some cases where an aqueous solution of glyoxal (or other
dialdehyde) is used together with a base or alkali, the pH will drop over time.
Thus, in an optional embodiment, a buffer may be used that helps stabilize the
pH. Suitable buffers include, but are not necessarily limited to, sodium bicarbo
nate, potassium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, ammonium bicarbonate,
disodium phosphate, sodium acetate and the like (any neutral buffer) and
combinations thereof.
 [0023]        In one non-limiting embodiment, the wt% of dialdehyde (e.g.
glyoxal) ranges from about 10 independently to about 90 (again as a 40 wt%
aqueous solution), the wt% of buffer ranges from about 1 independently to
about 5, and the amount of base is effective so that the composition has a pH
in the range from about 6 to about 8.5, based on the total composition; the

                                          6
balance being water or other solvent. In another non-restrictive version, the
wto of dialdehyde (e.g. glyoxal) ranges from about 20 independently to about
60 (again as a 40 wt% aqueous solution) alternatively up to about 50 wt%, the
wt% of buffer ranges from about 1 independently to about 2, and the amount of
base again is effective so that the composition has a pH in the range from
about 6 to about 8.5.
 [0024]       The suitable solvents for the H2S/mercaptan scavenger composi
tions herein include, but are not necessarily limited to, water, alcohols, glycols
and mixtures thereof alone or without water. Suitable alcohols include methanol
and ethanol. Ethylene glycol may also be used as a solvent during the winter
months for antifreeze purposes. Another solvent may be butyl carbitol.
 [0025]       In an alternative embodiment, the at least one dialdehyde (e.g.
glyoxal) may be used together with at least one non-nitrogen-containing surfac
tant, where the use of a base has been optional. In has been surprisingly dis
covered that the amount of hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans scavenged is
greater as compared with an otherwise identical composition with respect to
dialdehyde, where the non-nitrogen-containing surfactant is absent. Suitable
non-nitrogen-containing surfactants include, but are not necessarily limited to,
alkoxylated alkyl alcohols and salts thereof and alkoxylated alkyl phenols and
salts thereof, alkyl and aryl sulfonates, sulfates, phosphates, carboxylates,
polyoxyalkyl glycols, fatty alcohols, polyoxyethylene glycol sorbitan alkyl esters,
sorbitan alkyl esters, polysorbates, glucosides, and the like, and combinations
thereof.
 [0026]       In one non-limiting embodiment, the weight ratio of non-nitrogen
containing surfactant to dialdehyde ranges from about 40/60 independently to
0.1/99.9, and alternatively from about 50/50 independently to about 0.9/99.1,
again where the dialdehyde is in a 40 wt% aqueous solution. In another non
restrictive version the weight ratio of non-nitrogen-containing surfactant to
dialdehyde ranges from about 15/85 independently to 0.5/99.5, alternatively
from about 5/95 independently to about 0.1/99.9.
 [0027]       On the other hand, in the composition the wt% of dialdehyde
ranges from about 10 independently to about 90, and alternatively from about
20 independently to about 80, and in another non-restrictive embodiment from

                                           7
10 independently to about 60 (40 wt% aqueous solution in all cases), and the
wt/   of non-nitrogen-containing surfactant ranges from about 0.01 independ
ently to about 20 wt%, based on the total scavenger composition. The propor
tions of one non-restrictive suitable formulation containing all of a base (KOH),
a buffer, a dialdehyde (glyoxal) and a non-nitrogen-containing surfactant
(ethoxylated C12 alcohol) may be those given in Table 1.
                                      TABLE I
                        Suitable H2S/Scavenging Formulation
              Wt%                          Component
                 4                         base
                 2                         non-nitrogen surfactant
                 0.5                       sodium bicarbonate
                30-40                      glyoxal
The initial pH of this composition was 8.40. The balance is water.
 [0028]        It has been found that water-based formulations of these com
pounds act as hydrogen sulfide scavengers when the hydrogen sulfide is
present in the aqueous phase, the gaseous phase and a hydrocarbon phase.
These methods and compositions may be used to remove hydrogen sulfide
present in natural gas produced from natural gas wells. They may also be used
to remove hydrogen sulfide from crude oil. Additionally they may be used to
remove hydrogen sulfide from brines containing hydrogen sulfide. These
compositions and        methods    provide   a non-nitrogen-based     H2S and/or
mercaptan scavenger.
 [0029]       The H2S / mercaptan scavengers are expected to be useful in a
wide variety of applications, particularly "downstream" and "upstream" applica
tions (downstream of a refinery) including, but not necessarily limited to,
residual fuel oil, jet fuel, bunker fuel, asphalt, recovered aqueous streams, as
well as mixed production streams, for instance downhole or downstream of
wellhead, including, but not limited to scavenging H2S and mercaptans from
production fluids. Another suitable application may be to remove hydrogen
sulfide from a hydrogen stream, and the like.

                                             8
 [0030]         The method may involve scavenging H2S and/or mercaptans from
a fluid including an aqueous phase, a hydrocarbon phase and mixtures thereof.
In this embodiment, the compound may be present in the fluid in a concentra
tion from about 10 independently to about 10,000 ppm, alternatively from about
50 independently to about 5,000 ppm, alternatively to about 1000 ppm, and in
another non-restrictive version at about 300 ppm. In one non-limiting embodi
ment the method is practiced in a refinery. The primary applications within a
refinery involve hydrocarbon liquid phases and hydrocarbon gaseous phases.
 [0031]         When the method scavenges H2S and/or mercaptans from a
gaseous phase, the method may be practiced by contacting the gaseous phase
with droplets of the composition, and/or passing the gaseous phase through the
composition, such as by bubbling through a tower. With respect to removing
H2S and/or mercaptans from a gaseous phase, the dialdehyde compound is
present in the composition in a concentration of at least 5 vol%, in a different
non-limiting embodiment at least 50 vol%, alternatively at least 60 vol%, alter
natively at least 70 vol%, alternatively at least 80 vol%, alternatively at least 90
vol%, and alternatively at least 95 vol%.
 [0032]         The scavenging compositions described herein may also include
corrosion inhibitors including, but not necessarily limited to, phosphate esters,
acetylenic alcohols, fatty acids and/or alkyl-substituted carboxylic acids and
anhydrides, sulfur-oxygen phosphates and/or polyphosphate esters, quaternary
ammonium salts, imidazolines, mercapto alcohols.
 [0033]         The invention will now be illustrated with respect to certain exam
ples which are not intended to limit the invention in any way but simply to
further illustrated it in certain specific embodiments.
                                      EXAMPLE 1
 [0034]         Shown in FIG. 1 is a graph of normalized H2S concentration as a
function of time for H2 S scavenged from oil at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa) and
250C where the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% CO2. The curve for glyoxal
alone (40% in aqueous solution; triangles) indicates that the amount of H2S
was reduced to its lowest level at about 18 minutes and then gradually rose as
the glyoxal was spent. The curve for glyoxal together with alkali (KOH) in a

                                            9
90/10 weight ratio (total 100 ppm) (glyoxal 36% aqueous solution) (circles)
gave a much greater reduction of H2 S, and more rapidly, having a minimum at
slightly above 0.6 showing a much greater reduction in H2 S presence as com
pared with using glyoxal alone. Further, even though the H2S presence
gradually increases after treatment with a composition as described herein, it
never approaches the amount when glyoxal is used alone over the time of 90
minutes.
                                     EXAMPLE 2
 [0035]        Shown in FIG. 2 is a graph showing the results of a H2 S uptake
test showing the maximum reduction of hydrogen sulfide as a function of
various weight ratios of alkali (KOH)/glyoxal (each totaling 100 ppm, where the
glyoxal was again 40 wt% in an aqueous solution) at 1 atmosphere (0.1 MPa)
and 250C where the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% CO2 showing H2 5
scavenged in ppm. It can be seen here that the best performance is seen with
the weight ratio of 10/90. FIG. 3 shows the H2 S scavenging rate in ppm/minute
for the same conditions. It may be clearly seen that there was an unexpected
peak in H2 S scavenged (FIG. 2) and scavenging rate (FIG. 3) for the weight
ratio of alkali/glyoxal of 10/90 as compared with only alkali (left side of FIG 2
and FIG 3.) and only glyoxal (right side of FIG 2 and FIG 3). The dashed lines
in both FIGS. represent what would be expected as a smooth transition from
only alkali to only glyoxal (additive effect).
                                     EXAMPLE 3
 [0036]        Shown in FIG. 4 is a graph showing the results of a H2 S uptake
test showing mass uptake as a function of various weight ratios of non-nitro
gen-containing surfactant (ethoxylated C1 2 alcohol)/glyoxal (each totaling 100
ppm, where the glyoxal was again 40 wt% in an aqueous solution) at 1 atmos
phere (0.1 MPa) and 250C where the oil contained 3000 ppm H2S and 5% CO2
showing H2 S scavenged in ppm. In this graph synergistic performance is seen
with the different weight ratios that contain non-nitrogen-containing surfactant.
FIG. 5 shows the H2 S scavenging rate in ppm/minute for the same conditions.
It may be clearly seen that there was an unexpected peak in H2 S scavenged

                                           10
(FIG. 4) at a ratio of surfactant/glyoxal of 20/80 and an unexpected peak in
scavenging rate (FIG. 5) for the weight ratio of surfactant/glyoxal of 10/90 as
compared with only surfactant (left side of FIGS.) and only glyoxal (right side of
FIGS.). The dashed lines in both FIGS. represents what would be expected as
a smooth transition from only non-nitrogen-containing surfactant to only glyoxal
(additive effect).
 [0037]        In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described
with reference to specific embodiments thereof, and has been demonstrated as
effective in providing methods and compositions for scavenging H2S and/or
mercaptans from aqueous fluids, hydrocarbon fluids, gaseous phases and/or
combinations thereof. However, it will be evident that various modifications and
changes can be made thereto without departing from the broader scope of the
invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly, the specification is
to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. For example,
specific dialdehydes, non-nitrogen-containing surfactants, buffers and alkalis/
bases falling within the claimed parameters, but not specifically identified or
tried in a particular composition or method, are expected to be within the scope
of this invention.
 [0038]        The words "comprising" and "comprises" as used throughout the
claims is interpreted "including but not limited to".
 [0039]        The present invention may suitably comprise, consist or consist
essentially of the elements disclosed and may be practiced in the absence of
an element not disclosed. For instance, in the method for scavenging hydrogen
sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid selected from the group consisting of an
aqueous phase, a gaseous phase, a hydrocarbon phase and mixtures thereof,
the method may consist of, or consist essentially of, contacting the fluid with a
composition in an effective amount for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or
mercaptans, where the composition consists of or consists essentially of at
least one dialdehyde, and at least one base; where the amount of hydrogen
sulfide and/or mercaptans scavenged is greater as compared with an otherwise
identical composition where the base is absent.

                                          11
 [0040]       Alternatively, in the present method for scavenging hydrogen
sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid selected from the group consisting of an
aqueous phase, a gaseous phase, a hydrocarbon phase and mixtures thereof,
the method may consist of or consist essentially of contacting the fluid with a
composition in an effective amount for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or
mercaptans, where the composition consists of, or consists essentially of, at
least one dialdehyde, and at least one non-nitrogen-containing surfactant;
where the amount of hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans scavenged is greater
as compared with an otherwise identical composition where the non-nitrogen
containing surfactant is absent.
 [0041]       In another non-limiting embodiment, in the present method for
scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid selected from the
group consisting of an aqueous phase, a gaseous phase, a hydrocarbon phase
and mixtures thereof, the method may consist of or consist essentially of
contacting the fluid with a composition in an effective amount for scavenging
hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans, where the composition consists of, or
consists essentially of, at least one dialdehyde, at least one base, and at least
one non-nitrogen-containing surfactant; where the amount of hydrogen sulfide
and/or mercaptans scavenged is greater as compared with an otherwise
identical composition where the non-nitrogen-containing surfactant is absent.
 [0042]       Finally, in the composition for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or
mercaptans from a fluid, the composition may consist of, or consist essentially
of, dialdehyde, a base, and a non-nitrogen-containing surfactant.

                                                 12
                                              CLAIMS
   1.       A composition for scavenging hydrogen sulfide and/or mercaptans from a fluid,
   the composition comprising:
            at least one dialdehyde;
 5          at least one base; and
            at least one non-nitrogen-containing surfactant.
   2.       The composition of claim 1 wherein:
            the dialdehyde is selected from the group consisting of glyoxal,
   malondialdehyde, succindialdehyde, glutaraldehyde and combinations thereof;
 0          the base is selected from the group consisting of NaOH, KOH, Ba(OH) 2, CsOH,
   Sr(OH) 2, Ca(OH) 2, NH40H, LiOH, and combinations thereof; and
            the non-nitrogen-containing surfactant is selected from the group consisting of
   alkoxylated alkyl alcohols and salts thereof and alkoxylated alkyl phenols and salts
   thereof, alkyl and aryl sulfonates, sulfates, phosphates, carboxylates, polyoxyalkyl
 5 glycols, fatty alcohols, polyoxyethylene glycol sorbitan alkyl esters, sorbitan alkyl esters,
   polysorbates, glucosides and combinations thereof.
   3.       The composition of claim 1 or 2, where the composition has a pH in the range
   from 6 to 8.5.
   4.       The composition of claim 1 or 2, where the weight ratio of base to dialdehyde
 0 ranges from 15/85 to 0.1 /99.9, where the dialdehyde is in a 40 wt% aqueous solution.
   5.       The composition of claim 1 or 2, where the weight ratio of non-nitrogen
   containing surfactant to dialdehyde ranges from 40/60 to 0.1 /99.9, where the
   dialdehyde is in a 40 wt% aqueous solution.
   6.       The composition of claim 1 or 2, where the composition further comprises a
?5 buffer selected from the group consisting of sodium bicarbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, ammonium bicarbonate, disodium phosphate, and
   combinations thereof.
   7.       The composition of claim 6, where in the composition: the wt% of dialdehyde
   ranges from 10 to 90 (40 wt% aqueous solution), the wt% of buffer ranges from 1 to 5,

                                            13
and the amount of base is effective so that the composition has a pH in the range from
6 to 8.5, based on the total composition.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
