ABSTRACT
The present invention provides for a water-soluble composition comprising at least
one source of Omega-3 comprising at least one Omega-3 fatty acid selected from
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), docosapentaenoic acid
(DPA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), and micelle-promoting agents comprising one
or more of carrier oils, solvents, emulsifiers and antioxidants, in order to promote
an increase in biovailability of the Omega-3 Source of at least two times.

         OMEGA-3 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS RELATING THERETO
PRIORITY APPLICATION
[0001]     The present patent application draws priority from Australian Patent No.
<removed-apn>, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     The present invention generally relates to water-dispersible compositions
of bioactive    lipophilic compounds,    particularly  relating to water dispersible
compositions of fatty acids, their esters and triglycerides, to compounds useful for
the preparation of such compositions, to methods of preparing such compounds and
compositions, and to the use of such compositions as therapeutics, complementary
medicines and cosmetics.
BACKGROUND
[0003]     The cells of the small intestine are covered with a microscopically fine
water film so that the cells can directly absorb substances that are soluble in this
water film. The bio-availability of water soluble substances, such as sugar, salts,
and certain water-soluble vitamins (for instance Vitamin C) is therefore at an
optimum. However, fat soluble substances - such as fatty acids - are unable to
penetrate the water film. Indeed, many important bioactive compounds are highly
lipophilic and    are   suited to dissolution   in  non-polar  solvents, while being
substantially insoluble or only partially soluble in aqueous solvents. The lack of
solubility of a bioactive compound in aqueous media is an important factor limiting
its therapeutic use or use in clinical applications, making it difficult to efficiently
administer the compound to a patient. When administered in the form of an oil
solution or some kind of water and/or oil suspension or emulsion,            lipophilic
compounds typically show a poor bio-availability, meaning a low concentration and
a long build-up time of the compound in the systemic circulation.
                                         - 1 -

[0004]      The physiological process conducted by the body in an attempt to absorb
these lipophilic compounds of value is known as micelle formation. Through
interaction with chemicals carried in bile, the lipophilic species can be 'enveloped' in
a micelle. The chemicals act as surfactants and are molecules formed from a long
lipophilic tail with a hydrophilic head. A typical micelle in aqueous solution forms an
aggregate with the hydrophilic "head" regions in contact with surrounding solvent,
sequestering the hydrophobic single-tail regions in the micelle centre. The micelle
can then be dispersed in the bulk solvent by virtue of the hydrophilic head groups
that form the outer layer of the micelle.
[0005]      However, the micelle formation in the small intestine occurs at a time
delay, being after the release of bile secretion (bile juice) and enzymes of the
pancreas. Yet the rest of the digestive processes (transport, etc.) continue without
interruption during the comparatively lengthy micelle formation process in the small
intestine. This results in a significant proportion of the micelles being expelled as
waste by the body because the micelles are formed too late in the digestion process
and thus pass beyond the small intestine. The result of this is a very low bio
availability of fat-soluble substances, being typically approximately 15-25 percent
of the consumed amount.
[0006]      In order to ensure that a sufficient amount of the particular lipophilic
substances are taken up by the body to actually produce a therapeutic benefit, they
are typically required to be taken in amounts greater than 1 gram daily. This is
partly due to their low aqueous solubility and thus low ability to be taken up by the
body during digestion.
[0007]      There are also certain people who, due to medical reasons, cannot form
micelles, even further lowering their body's absorption of essential lipophilic
species. Further, old age is also known to reduce the ability of a person's digestive
tract to take up a range of important chemicals, including fatty acids or other
lipophilic compounds enclosed in micelles.
                                           - 2 -

[0008]      Bioactive lipophilic compounds in need of increased solubility to aid in
absorption by the body can belong to various therapeutic categories, such as
certain vitamins, antibiotics, free radical scavengers, immunosuppressants and
some fatty acids. Various approaches to achieve the solubility and improve the bio
availability of these and other lipophilic compounds are known in the prior art,
including formation of water-soluble complexes. One particularly important class of
bioactive lipophilic compound is the Omega-3 fatty acid group - particularly the
Omega-3 fatty acids derived from fish oils, such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA),
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), docosapentaenoic acid (DPA) and alpha-linolenic acid
(ALA). EPA, DHA, DPA and ALA are used, in conjunction with dietary changes, to
assist in the lowering and continued control of triglyceride levels. EPA is also known
or considered to be an effective treatment for a number of medical conditions and
has been found to reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes, slow the build-up of
atherosclerotic plaque and reducing angina. However, the typical Western diet does
not typically provide sufficient levels of Omega-3 fatty acids, necessitating the use
of supplements to provide the required amounts.
[0009]      Therefore it would be advantageous to provide optimised compositions of
bioactive lipophilic compounds, particularly relating to compositions of Omega-3
fatty acids, including     EPA,   DHA,  DPA and ALA, that       provide an    increased
bioavailability of the Omega-3 fatty acid. This would overcome at least some of the
disadvantages of previously known approaches in this field, or would provide a
useful alternative.
DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
[0010]      These and other advantages are met with the present invention, which in
one broad form comprises water-dispersible composition comprising at least one
source of Omega-3, and micelle-promoting agents comprising one or more of
carrier oils,   solvents, emulsifiers and    antioxidants, wherein    the composition
promotes at least a twofold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3 source.
                                          - 3 -

[0011]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the composition promotes at
least a threefold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3 source. In a further
embodiment of the present invention, the composition promotes at least a fourfold
increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3 source.
[0012]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the percentage composition
of the Omega-3 source and at least one micelle-promoting agents is such that,
dispersed in an aqueous environment, the composition forms a population of
micelles with a mean population diameter of about 1 to 20 micrometres. More
preferably, the mean population diameter of the micelles is less than about 15
micrometres. In a preferred embodiment, the mean population diameter of the
micelles is greater than about 5 micrometres. More preferably, the mean population
diameter of the micelles is greater than about 10 micrometres. In a most preferred
embodiment of the present invention, the mean population diameter of the micelles
is between about 12 to 13 micrometres.
[0013]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the percentage population of
micrometres with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres is greater than 20%.
More preferably, the percentage population of micrometres with a diameter of less
than 10 micrometres is greater than 30%. In a most preferred embodiment of the
present invention, the percentage population of micrometres with a diameter of less
than 10 micrometres is greater than 40%.
[0014]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the Omega-3 Source
comprises at least one Omega 3 fatty acid selected from eicosapentaenoic acid
(EPA),   docosahexaenoic acid (DHA),      docosapentaenoic acid (DPA)      and alpha
linolenic acid (ALA). Preferably, the Omega 3 fatty acid is present in one or more
forms selected from fatty acids, ethyl esters, triglycerides and phospholipids.
[0015]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the carrier oil is selected
from one or more of medium chain triglycerides, long chain triglycerides, caprylic
                                         -4-

and/or capric triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, sesame oil,
soybean oil, peanut oil, castor oil and oleic acid.
[0016]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the solvent is selected from
one or more of citrus oil, ethanol, ethyl oleate, glycerine, glyceryl mono-oleate,
limonene, polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol 400, polyethylene glycol 600
and propylene glycol.
[0017]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the emulsifier is selected
from    one   or   more  of   hydrogenated     castor oil,   lecithin,  macrogolglycerol
hydroxystearate, oat oil polar lipids, phosphatidylcholine, poloxamers, polyoxyl 35
castor oil, polyoxyl 40 castor oil, polysorbate 20, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80
and polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.
[0018]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the antioxidant is selected
from one or more of Lecithin, ascorbyl palmitate, d alpha-tocopherol, dl-alpha
tocopherol,    d-alpha-Tocopheryl   acetate,    dl-alpha-Tocopheryl    acetate,  d-alpha
Tocopheryl acid succinate, dl alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, Vitamin E and
derivatives thereof, Olive polyphenols and Algal polyphenols.
[0019]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the composition further
comprises an excipient. Preferably, the excipient is selected from one or more of
Colloidal silica, Corn starch, Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),          Maltodextrin,
Magnesium stearate, Magnesium         hydroxide, Microcrystalline cellulose, dextrin,
sorbitol, mannitol and Trehalose.
[0020]     In an embodiment of the          present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, from 10% to about 90% by
weight, and one or more of at least one carrier oil, up to about 70% by weight; at
least one solvent, up to about 20% by weight; at least one emulsifier, up to about
30% by weight; and at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.01% by weight.
                                          - 5 -

[0021]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, from 80% to about 87% by
weight, and one or more of at least one carrier oil, up to about 11% by weight; at
least one solvent, up to about 10% by weight; at least one emulsifier, up to about
11% by weight; and at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.1% by weight.
[0022]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, at about 87% by weight; at
least one solvent, at about 9.75% by weight; and at least one emulsifier, at about
3.25% by weight.
[0023]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, at about 85% by weight; at
least one carrier oil, at about 2.25% by weight; at least one solvent, at about
2.25% by weight; at least one emulsifier, at about 10.48% by weight; and at least
one antioxidant, at about 0.02% by weight.
[0024]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, at about 80% by weight; at
least one carrier oil, at about 10.5% by weight; at least one emulsifier, at about
9.4% by weight; and at least one antioxidant, at about 0.1% by weight.
[0025]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, at about 85% by weight; at
least one carrier oil, at about 4.8% by weight; at least one solvent, at about 4.8%
by weight; at least one emulsifier, at about 4.9% by weight; and at least one
antioxidant, at about 0.5% by weight.
[0026]    In an embodiment of the         present invention, the water-dispersible
composition comprises at least one Omega-3 source, from 5% to about 70% by
weight, and one or more of at least one carrier oil, up to about 45% by weight; at
least one solvent, up to about 10% by weight; at least one emulsifier, up to about
                                        -6-

15% by weight; and at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.01% by weight;
wherein the composition further comprises an excipient from 30% to about 90% by
weight.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027]     The invention will now be described with regards to the following
drawings, which are as follows:
[0028]      Figure 1 is a graphical representation of the percentage uptake of an
embodiment of the present invention containing EPA compared to a prior art means
of delivering the same;
[0029]      Figure 2 is a graphical representation of the percentage uptake of an
embodiment of the present invention containing DHA compared to a prior art
means of delivering the same;
[0030]      Figure 3 is a graph of the population and cumulative population of
micelles formed through the dispersion of an embodiment of the present invention
to 200 mg/L in an aqueous solvent; and
[0031]      Figure 4 is a graphical representation of the percentage uptake of an
embodiment of the present invention with a smaller mean micelle diameter
compared to an embodiment of the present invention with a larger mean micelle
diameter.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0032]     An aspect of the present invention provides for a water-dispersible
composition comprising at least one source of Omega-3 and at least one micelle
promoting agent comprising one or more of a carrier oil, a solvent, an emulsifier
and an antioxidant. In an embodiment of the present invention, the water
dispersible composition provides an advantageous delivery of Omega-3 upon
                                        -7-

ingestion, resulting in greater bioavailability of the Omega-3 to the body of the
consumer. In an embodiment, this may allow for a greater percentage of the
consumed Omega-3 to be absorbed by the body, which may allow for less total
Omega-3 to need to be consumed in order to provide a beneficial effect.
[0033]     In an embodiment of the           present invention, the water-dispersible
composition promotes at least a twofold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3
source. This may mean that at least twice as much Omega-3 will be taken up by
the   body when      delivered through     the   water-dispersible composition of an
embodiment of the present invention, compared to prior art means of delivering an
equal amount of Omega-3.
[0034]     In a further embodiment, the composition of the present invention may
promote at least a threefold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3 source. In an
even further embodiment, the composition of the present invention may promote at
least a fourfold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3 source, which may mean
that at least four times as much Omega-3 will be taken up by the body when
delivered through the water-dispersible composition of the present embodiment,
compared to prior art means of delivering an equal amount of Omega-3.
[0035]     In at least one embodiment of the present invention, the water
dispersible composition is adapted to form into micelles when in an aqueous
environment. When the composition of the present invention is added to water - or
a solution largely comprising water, such as milk or fruit juice - The Omega-3 fatty
acids and the micelle-promoting agents may interact to form a population of
micelles. These micelles may be stable with respect to temperature and acid effects
in the stomach and reach the small intestine undamaged, attach themselves to the
mucous membrane cells located across the inner surface of the small intestine, and
may be absorbed, thereby leading to higher bio-availability than is the case for a
"normal" fat digestion.
                                           -8-

Case Study: Effect of Micelles on Bioavailability
[0036]      Without wishing to limit the scope of the invention, it is believed that in
order for aqueous-insoluble components (such as Omega-3) to be absorbed by the
body, they need to be enveloped in a micelle that allows for the component to be
dispersed in an aqueous environment. The micelle "package", with an outer layer
that is adapted to interact with aqueous environments, may move through such an
environment. In an aqueous environment such as that within the stomach and
small intestine, the micelle "package" may be able to move to and attach to the
mucous membrane cells located across the inner surface of the small intestine,
where they may be easily absorbed by the body. However, the environment within
the stomach is not conducive to the creation of micelles, as the micelle-promoting
agents are typically present in insufficient amounts. As a result of this, a very large
amount of an aqueous-insoluble component must typically be consumed in order
for a sufficient quantity of it to be absorbed by the body.
[0037]      The present invention seeks to overcome this by, in at least one
embodiment, providing the necessary agents to promote the formation of micelles
well before the Omega-3 passes the mucous membrane cells. In at least one
embodiment, the composition of the present invention - upon dispersing within an
aqueous environment - may arrange into micelles containing the Omega-3. This
may allow for the micelles to be taken up by the body, allowing for the Omega-3 to
be absorbed by the body with greater success. An example clinical trial comparing
an embodiment of the present invention to a 'typical' delivery means of Omega-3
was conducted. 5 participants (3 males, 2 females) with an average age of 43 were
included in the trial based on a power calculation to have an 80% chance of
detecting a 50% increase in EPA compared to the control.
[0038]      Inclusion criteria included otherwise healthy men and women between
the ages of 18-60 years with a BMI lower than 30. Participants were excluded if
they had previous history of hematological diseases (e.g., known susceptibility to
thrombosis), pathological laboratory status (blood count, thrombocytes), were on
medication for diabetes, heart disease, cholesterol or blood pressure, had known
                                           - 9 -

disorders of the of heart, kidney, lung, skin or liver function, diagnosed with cancer,
food allergies or intolerances, or had participated in another study in the last 6
months.
                  Common name / trade name                     Wt. %
                  Omega-3 fish oil ethyl ester                 87%
                  (72 wt. % EPA, 28 wt. % DHA)
                  Micelle Additive (Composition below)         13%
                   Micelle Additive Composition                Wt. %
                   Polysorbate 80                              50%
                   Polyoxyl 40 (hyd. castor oil)               25%
                   Polyethylene Glycol 400                     12.5%
                   Citrus oil (>90% d-limonene)                12.5%
            Table 1: Percentage Composition of Micelle-Prepared Capsules
[0039]      A randomised, cross-over, non-blinded study design was used with a 7
week washout period between consumption of each of the treatments.Group A
consumed 2 micelle-prepared Omega-3 ethyl ester hard gelatin capsules, with the
active ingredients in proportion as per Table 1, above. Each capsule contained 345
mg EPA and 135 mg DHA. A total of 690 mg EPA and 270 mg DHA was delivered as
a single dose. Group B, the control product, consumed 2 standard Omega-3 ethyl
ester hard gelatin capsule. Each capsule containing 345 mg EPA and 135 mg DHA.
A total of 690 mg EPA and 270 mg DHA was delivered as a single dose. The groups
were reversed after the 7 week wash out period. The treatment dose was
consumed immediately after taking a fasted blood sample. Blood samples were
taken at 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 h for each of the treatment groups. All meals were
provided and scheduled and excluded foods with known high Omega-3 content. A
list of foods and supplements to be avoided was also provided to all the participants
for the evening meal.
[0040]      EPA and DHA were measured as part of the total fatty acid profile and
results were calculated as change in relative% of EPA & DHA compared to baseline.
Data is presented as means with their standard errors in Figures 1 and 2 - the
                                         - 10 -

comparative results for EPA are shown in Figure 1 and the comparative results for
DHA are shown in Figure 2. The AUCO- 2 4 value (Area under the curve from 0 to 24
hours) represents the total bio-availability of the particular compound over the
relevant period of time and is calculated using the data shown in Figures 1 and 2.
[0041]     As shown in Figure 1, in both the Micelle and Control groups the
percentage of EPA in the plasma rose steadily from 0 to 8 h with a decrease back to
near baseline at 24 hours.     Cmax occurred at 8 hours (A 0.406 Micelle-prepared, A
0.124 control). The average percentage change from baseline EPA concentration
was significantly different in the Micelle group (p=0.0198) with a difference in AUCo
24 of approximately 4.65 times compared to the control product.
[0042]     As is shown in Figure 2, the DHA results had a much higher variation in
results than the EPA with an overall very low uptake in the control group. This may
be due to the lower concentration of the initial dose. The average percentage
change from baseline DHA concentration was significantly different in the Micelle
group (p=0.0258) with a difference in AUCO- 2 4 of approximately 4.3 times compared
to the control product.  Tmax occurred at 4 hours for both groups.
[0043]     As a result of the above study, it has been shown that at least an
embodiment of the present invention may aid in the ability of the body to take up
Omega-3 fatty acids, with a total bio-availability over a 24-hour period that is
several times greater than that of an Omega-3 supplement absorbed through
"normal" digestive processes.
Micelle Diameter
[0044]     Broadly, the composition of an embodiment of the present invention is
such that, dispersed in an aqueous environment, the majority of micelles so formed
will have diameters that are in the low-micrometre range (diameters less than 50
micrometres).    In an embodiment of the present invention, the            percentage
composition of the water-dispersible composition is such that, dispersed in an
aqueous environment, the composition forms a population of micelles with a mean
population diameter of about 1 to 20 micrometres. In an embodiment, the mean
                                          - 11 -

population diameter may be less than about 15 micrometres. In an embodiment,
the mean population diameter may be greater than about 5 micrometres. In an
embodiment, the mean population diameter may be greater than about 10
micrometres. In a further embodiment, the mean population diameter may be
between about 12 to 13 micrometres.
[0045]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the percentage composition
of the water-dispersible composition is such that, when dispersed in an aqueous
environment, at least 50% of the population of micelles may have a diameter less
than about 40 micrometres. In an embodiment, at least 70% of the population of
micelles may have a diameter less than about 40 micrometres. In an embodiment,
at least 90% of the population of micelles may have a diameter less than about 40
micrometres. In an embodiment, at least 95% of the population of micelles may
have a diameter less than about 40 micrometres.
[0046]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the percentage composition
of the water-dispersible composition is such that, when dispersed in an aqueous
environment, at least 20% of the population of micelles may have a diameter less
than about 10 micrometres. In an embodiment, at least 30% of the population of
micelles may have a diameter less than about 10 micrometres. In an embodiment,
at least 40% of the population of micelles may have a diameter less than about 10
micrometres.
[0047]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the low-micrometre micelles
are sufficiently small so as to interact with the mucous membrane cells lining the
small intestine.
[0048]     The micelle population size distribution for an embodiment of the present
invention dispersed in water to a concentration of 200 mg/L is shown in Figure 3. In
the graph shown therein, the population of micelles that pass through a particular
channel size is shown by the vertical lines and is graphed against the left vertical
axis, while the cumulative population of micelles that are larger than the channel
                                         - 12 -

size are graphed by the curved line against the right vertical axis. In the particular
embodiment shown, the population mean micelle diameter is approximately 12.41
micrometres. In the particular embodiment, approximately 90% of the population
of micelles are smaller than 26.67 micrometres. In the particular embodiment,
approximately 43% of the population of micelles are smaller than 10 micrometres,
with 10% of the population of micelles smaller than 1.7 micrometres. The graph of
Figure 3, which extends out to a channel size of approximately 150 micrometres,
represents the distribution of approximately 99.99% of the micelle population
formed through the embodiment of the present invention.
[0049]      Although the experimental data of Figure 3 is obtained at a composition
concentration of 200 mg/L in water, the concentration of a micelle-forming
substance dispersed in water has minimal effect on the size of micelles formed by
said substance. Therefore, the data shown in Figure 3 is equally applicable to an
embodiment of the present invention dispersed in an aqueous environment at any
therapeutic dosage amount.
[0050]      From Figure 3, it can be concluded that at least an embodiment of the
present invention produces a population of micelles with a mean population
diameter between 12 and 13 micrometres.
Case Study: Micelle Diameter and Bio-Availability
[0051]      The percentage composition of micelle-promoting agents is known to
determine the resulting mean diameter and range of the micelle population. It has
been further determined that the diameter of a particular micelle unit is likely to
have a distinct and significant effect on the ability of the body to absorb the micelle.
Without wishing to limit the scope of the invention, it is theorised that the smaller a
micelle is, the more readily it is taken up by the body.
[0052]      An example clinical trial utilising different compositions of the present
invention for delivery of Omega-3 was conducted. 5 participants (3 males, 2
females) with an average age of 43 were included in the trial based on a power
                                          - 13 -

calculation to have an 80% chance of detecting a 50% increase in EPA compared to
the control. Inclusion criteria included otherwise healthy men and women between
the ages of 18-60 years with a BMI lower than 30. Participants were excluded if
they had previous history of hematological diseases (e.g., known susceptibility to
thrombosis), pathological laboratory status (blood count, thrombocytes), were on
medication for diabetes, heart disease, cholesterol or blood pressure, had known
disorders of the of heart, kidney, lung, skin or liver function, diagnosed with cancer,
food allergies or intolerances, or had participated in another study in the last 6
months. The concentration of Omega-3 fatty acids in the blood plasma of each
group was measured over a period of 24 hours, the results of which are tabulated
below and shown graphically in Figure 4.
         Time (hr)        0      1       2      3      4   5      6  7    8    24
       Conc. Study 1      0    0.12 0.23 0.29 0.35 0.36 0.37 0.39 0.41       0.18
       Conc. Study 2      0    0.04 0.07 0.11 0.21 0.25 0.3 0.34          -  0.15
                  Table 2: Blood Plasma Concentration over 24 hours
[0053]      The mean size of the micelle population in Conc. Study 1 is 17.7
micrometres, while the mean size of the micelle population in Conc. Study 2 is 27.4
micrometres.
                                                    Conc.     Conc.
                                                   Study 1   Study 2
                                 Baseline             0.0       0.0
                          Total Area (AUCo- 24 )    7.035      5.315
                            Total Peak Area         7.035      5.315
                            Number of Peaks          1.000     1.000
                                  First X             0.0       0.0
                                  Last X            24.00     24.00
                                  Peak X            8.000     7.000
                                  Peak Y            0.4100    0.3400
                                   Area             7.035      5.315
              Table 3: Statistical Results of Clinical Concentration Studies
[0054]      As Table 3 above shows, and as shown in the graph of Figure 4, the
AUCO- 2 4 of the first clinical concentration study is 7.035, while the AUCO- 2 4 for the
                                               - 14 -

second clinical concentration study is 5.315. As micelle size increases, this
difference becomes even more apparent; for a mean size of approximately 50
micrometres, the AUCO- 2 4 is approximately 2.0. Therefore, it is apparent that
decreasing micelle size promotes an increased AUCo- 2 4 , which is equivalent to an
increase in biovailability of the delivered Omega-3.
[0055]     The clear advantage of the present invention is therefore not only in the
provision of Omega-3 through micelles, but in the formation of micelles of reduced
size in order to improve the ability of the micelles to deliver the Omega-3 to the
body.
[0056]     However, whilst the above example suggests that a decreasing mean
micelle diameter can be inversely linked to an increasing uptake of Omega-3, there
is a limit beyond which this uptake may become dangerous. Every substance,
including therapeutic and dietary substances, has a toxicity concentration - a
concentration in the body beyond which the substance is no longer beneficial and
now poses danger to the person. Fat soluble substances, such as Omega-3, are
ordinarily of no concern; their uptake is so minimal that an ordinary diet is
extremely unlikely to induce Omega-3 toxicity in a person. The human body can
utilise nanometre-scale micelles in the capture of these fat-soluble substances
because, as has been discussed previously, the time delay involved in the natural
construction of the micelles means that only a very small percentage of the
consumed substance will be successfully absorbed by the body. Therefore, an
extremely rapid capture and uptake process is beneficial.
[0057]     However, embodiments of the present invention may allow for a far
larger proportion of the consumed Omega-3 to be captured and taken up by the
body. There is, therefore, the danger that uptake will be too rapid and may induce
toxicity,  particularly  if the   person    is consuming multiple types of dietary
supplements or therapeutic agents.
[0058]     As is shown in Figures 1 & 2, the embodiments of the present invention
have been determined as providing a balance between the uptake and absorption of
                                           - 15 -

Omega-3 by the body and avoidance of toxicity concerns. The shape of both Figures
1 & 2 indicates that the uptake of Omega-3 is both high and more importantly is
consistently high and spread out over a 24-hour period. This may be compared to
the potential over-delivery that may occur with sub-micrometre-scale micelle
formation; although the AUCO2 4 of the resulting graph (for the uptake of Omega-3
delivered by sub-micrometre-scale micelles) may be much higher, it is highly likely
that essentially all of the delivery would occur in a very short period of time,
leading to a massive increase in concentration of Omega-3 in the body which may
reach potentially toxic levels.
[0059]     The embodiments of the present invention, providing for a population of
micelles substantially in the range of 0.5-50 micrometres in diameter and with a
mean diameter of 1-20 micrometres, have been thus identified as providing the
safest, most consistent means of delivering a therapeutically-effective dosage of
Omega-3 to the human body.
Composition of the Invention
[0060]     In an embodiment of the present invention, the Omega-3 source may
comprise at least one Omega-3            fatty acid selected  from   one or more of
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), docosapentaenoic acid
(DPA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA). In an embodiment, the Omega-3 source is an
Omega-3 fatty acid that is present in one or more forms selected from fatty acids,
ethyl esters of fatty acids, triglycerides of fatty acids and phospholipids of fatty
acids. The source of the Omega-3 fatty acids, such as EPA, DHA, DPA and ALA, may
be selected from one or more of fish oil ethyl esters, fish oil triglycerides, natural
fish oils, algae oils, krill oils, green-lipped mussel oil, calamari oil/squid oil and
other naturally-occurring Omega-3 sources. Different Omega-3 fatty acid sources
are approved for pharmaceutical and/or supplementary use in different jurisdictions.
Therefore, the source may be changed, or may be present in another form or
derivative that is not specifically listed above, without departing from the object of
the invention.
                                           - 16 -

[0061]        The skilled person may recognise that Omega-3 sources, such as those
identified above, may comprise any number of additional compounds. The skilled
person will understand that the Omega-3 source within the composition of the
present invention may comprise trace impurities, which may be characteristic
impurities of the Omega-3 source.
[0062]        The question of the presence or absence of trace impurities within the
Omega-3 source will be understood by the skilled addressee as having no effect on
the scope of the          invention as claimed,      provided that the water-dispersible
composition created still fulfils the object of the invention - that being the creation
of a composition providing at least twofold increase in bioavailability of Omega-3
through the promotion of micelle formation. In other words, the inclusion of an
impurity within the Omega-3 source that does not inhibit the ability of the resulting
composition to provide at least a twofold increase in bioavailability would be
regarded by the skilled person as being within the scope of the object of the
invention.
[0063]        In an embodiment, the carrier oil may be selected from one or more of
medium        chain  triglycerides,  long-chain    triglycerides, caprylic and/or  capric
triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, sesame oil, soybean oil,
peanut oil, castor oil, fish oil and oleic acid.
[0064]        In an embodiment, the solvent may be selected from one or more of
citrus   oil,   ethanol,    ethyl oleate, glycerine,     glyceryl mono-oleate, limonene,
polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol 400, polyethylene glycol 600 and
propylene glycol.
[0065]        In an embodiment, the emulsifier may be selected from one or more of
hydrogenated castor oil, lecithin, macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate, oat oil polar
lipids, phosphatidylcholine, poloxamers, polyoxyl 35 castor oil, polyoxyl 40 castor
oil, polysorbate 20, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80 and polyglycerol esters of fatty
acids.
                                            - 17 -

[0066]     In an embodiment, the antioxidant may be selected from one or more of
Lecithin,  ascorbyl    palmitate,    d-alpha-tocopherol,        dl-alpha-tocopherol,      d-alpha
Tocopheryl      acetate,   dl-alpha-Tocopheryl         acetate,        d-alpha-Tocopheryl      acid
succinate, dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, Vitamin E and derivatives thereof,
Olive polyphenols and Algal polyphenols.
[0067]      Not all embodiments may comprise a micelle-promoting agent from all
categories. Certain embodiments may comprise, in addition to the Omega-3 source
and any other supplementary additives, only a carrier oil, only a solvent, only an
emulsifier or only an antioxidant. Certain embodiments may comprise any two of
the micelle-promoting agent categories. Certain embodiments may comprise any
three of the micelle-promoting agent categories. Compositional ranges for the
constituents of some embodiments of the present invention are shown in the table
below:
                             Component              0/0  Composition
                         Omega-3 Fatty Acid            10 - 90 wt. %
                               Carrier Oil              0 - 70 wt. %
                                Solvent                0 -  20 wt. %
                               Emulsifier              0 -  30 wt. %
                              Antioxidant             0 -   0.5 wt. %
              Table 4: Percentage Composition Range for Liquid Delivery
[0068]     Several example compositions are shown in the table below. Each of
these have been determined to fulfil at least an object of the invention:
          Component        0/o Comp. 1     0/0  Comp. 2       0/0  Comp. 3     0/0  Comp. 4
       Omega-3 Source           87%              85%             80.00%            85.00%
           Carrier Oil            -             2.26%             10.50%            4.80%
            Solvent            9.75%            2.25%                 -             4.80%
           Emulsifier          3.25%           10.47%              9.40%            4.90%
          Antioxidant             -             0.02%              0.10%            0.50%
        Table 5: Example Compositions of an embodiment for Liquid Delivery
[0069]     As shown in the table above, not every micelle-promoting agent type is
always needed. In particular, certain forms of micelle-promoting agent of one type
may also serve to fulfil the purpose of another type. For example, certain carrier
                                            - 18 -

oils may also serve as Omega-3 solvents, and vice-versa; likewise, particular
solvents may also serve as emulsifiers, and vice-versa; finally, certain carrier oils
may also serve as emulsifiers, and vice-versa.
[0070]     Certain embodiments of the present invention may comprise additional
additives without departing from the object of the invention, provided that said
object is still met - that being the creation of a composition providing at least
twofold increase in bioavailability of Omega-3 through the promotion of micelle
formation.
[0071]     According to a further embodiment of the invention, a solid composition
may be produced by allowing the active-ingredient-containing composition to be
adsorbed in or carried on an excipient. Any type of excipient capable of adsorbing
or carrying the liquid composition and acceptable for oral administration can be
used for this purpose. In an embodiment, the excipient may be selected from one
or more of colloidal silica, corn starch, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),
maltodextrin,     magnesium      stearate,     magnesium     hydroxide,  microcrystalline
cellulose, dextrin, sorbitol, mannitol and trehalose.
[0072]     Different excipients may offer advantages for different uses of the
present invention. For example, if sorbitol, dextrin and/or mannitol are used as an
excipient, the solid composition becomes soluble in water. If lactose, cornstarch,
sorbitol, and/or crystalline cellulose are used, the solid composition acquires
plasticity and can be directly compacted into tablet form. Moreover, chewable
tablets, differentially soluble tablets, foaming tablets and the like can be prepared
accordingly. In other embodiments of the invention, the composition can be used in
the   preparation   of liquids,    pastes and      emulsions.  For preparing  the   solid
composition, any conventional auxiliaries such as a binder, a disintegrator, a
dispersant, an antiseptic and a lubricant may be used. In an embodiment of the
present invention, the binder may be one a water-soluble binder such as
polyvinylpyrrolidone, hydroxypropyl        cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol,  hydroxypropyl
                                            - 19 -

methylcellulose, methylcellulose, Pullulan, syrup, sodium alginate, agar, gelatin,
soybean polysaccharide, gum arabic and the like.
[0073]      The preferable compositional range of the present invention is shown in
the table below for an embodiment of the present invention intended for delivery in
a solid form, such as powders for dissolution or other purposes, hard tablets or
similar:
                           Component          % Composition
                       Omega-3 Fatty Acid        5 - 70 wt. %
                            Carrier Oil          0 - 45 wt. %
                             Solvent             0 - 10 wt. %
                            Emulsifier           0 - 15 wt. %
                           Antioxidant          0 - 0.01 wt. %
                            Excipient           30 - 90 wt. %
              Table 6: Percentage Composition Range for Solid Delivery
Method of Production
[0074]      For the preparation of the composition of this invention, the Omega-3
source is combined with one or more of carrier oils, solvents, emulsifiers and
antioxidants. The Omega-3 active ingredients derived from the relevant Omega-3
source may be used in either their 'natural' state as fatty acids, as ethyl esters, as
triglycerides or as phospholipids or in the form of one or more other derivatives of
Omega-3 fatty acids.
[0075]      The components are combined with the micelle-promoting agents in
order to produce a composition that, when dispersed into an aqueous environment,
the formation of micelles with a mean diameter of about 1 - 20 micrometres is
promoted. An embodiment of the present invention may be further combined with
one or more excipients in order to produce a solid form of the present invention.
[0076]      An embodiment of the present invention may be directly consumed by a
person or animal as a hard or soft tablet, gel capsule or similar direct consumption
means. Alternatively, the embodiment may be combined with an aqueous liquid,
                                         - 20 -

such as water, juice or milk, wherein it may be dispersed throughout and then
consumed by the person or animal.
[0077]      While the invention has been described with reference to preferred
embodiments above, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not
limited to those embodiments,         but may be embodied in many other forms,
variations and modifications other than those specifically described. The invention
includes all such variation and modifications. The invention also includes all of the
steps, features, components and/or devices referred           to or indicated    in the
specification, individually or collectively and any and all combinations or any two or
more of the steps or features.
[0078]      Although the invention has been described with reference to particular
chemicals, these identified chemicals should be only regarded as examples within
their particular chemical family as opposed to a complete and exhaustive list of
possible ingredients. The skilled person will appreciate that unless otherwise
specified, the mere substitution of one particular chemical for another with similar
uses, effect, chemical formulae, pharmaceutical capability, biological compatibility
or otherwise similar properties falls within the scope or object of the invention
described herein, and that the scope of the invention includes any and all of these
substitute chemicals insofar as the object of the invention is still fulfilled.
[0079]      In this specification, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
word "comprising" is not intended to have the exclusive meaning of the word such
as "consisting only of", but rather has the non-exclusive meaning, in the sense of
"including at least". The same applies, with corresponding grammatical changes, to
other forms of the word such as "comprise", etc.
[0080]      Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the
detailed description of the invention and apply throughout.            Unless otherwise
defined, all other scientific and technical terms used herein have the same meaning
                                           - 21 -

as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention
belongs.
Industrial Applicability
[0081]     The present invention may be utilised in relation to compounds and
compositions for use as therapeutics, complementary medicines and cosmetics. In
particular, the water-dispersible compounds of the present invention, comprising
one   or more of eicosapentaenoic acid           (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid   (DHA),
docosapentaenoic acid (DPA)       and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) and having high
bioavailability, are effective in clinical, therapeutic, functional food and cosmetic
application.
                                           - 22 -

CLAIMS
  1. A water-dispersible composition comprising:
            at least one source of Omega-3; and
            micelle-promoting agents comprising one or more of carrier oils,
     solvents, emulsifiers and antioxidants;
            wherein the composition promotes at least a twofold increase in
     bioavailability of the Omega-3 source.
  2. The water-dispersible composition of claim       1 wherein the composition
     promotes at least a threefold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3
     source.
  3. The water-dispersible composition of claim       1 wherein the composition
     promotes at least a fourfold increase in bioavailability of the Omega-3
     source.
  4. The water-dispersible    composition of claim    1 wherein the    percentage
     composition of the Omega-3 source and the at least one micelle-promoting
     agent in the water-dispersible composition is such that, when dispersed in an
     aqueous environment, the Omega-3         source and at least one micelle
     promoting agent form a population of micelles with a mean population
     diameter of about 1 to 20 micrometres.
  5. The water-dispersible composition of claim 4 wherein the mean population
     diameter of the micelles is less than 15 micrometres and greater than about
     5 micrometres when dispersed in an aqueous environment.
  6. The water-dispersible composition of claim 5 wherein the mean population
     diameter of the micelles is greater than about 10 micrometres when
     dispersed in an aqueous environment.
                                       - 23 -

7. The water-dispersible composition of claim 6 wherein the mean population
   diameter of the micelles is between about 12 to 13 micrometres when
   dispersed in an aqueous environment.
8. The water-dispersible      composition of claim 4 wherein the      percentage
   population of micrometres with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres is
   greater than 20%.
9. The water-dispersible      composition of claim 8 wherein the      percentage
   population of micrometres with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres is
   greater than 30%.
10.The    water-dispersible   composition of claim 9 wherein the      percentage
   population of micrometres with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres is
   greater than 40%.
11.The water-dispersible composition according to claim 1 wherein the Omega-3
   Source     comprises    at  least one     Omega-3 fatty acid   selected   from
   eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), docosapentaenoic
   acid (DPA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA).
12.The water-dispersible composition according to claim 11,         wherein the
   Omega-3 fatty acid is present in one or more forms selected from fatty acids,
   ethyl esters, triglycerides and phospholipids.
13.The water-dispersible composition according to claim 1 wherein the carrier oil
   is selected from one or more of medium chain triglycerides, long-chain
   triglycerides, caprylic and/or capric triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil,
   cottonseed oil, olive oil, sesame oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, castor oil and
   oleic acid.
14.The water-dispersible composition according to claim 1 wherein the solvent is
   selected from one or more of citrus oil, ethanol, ethyl oleate, glycerine,
                                      - 24 -

   glyceryl mono-oleate, limonene, polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol
   400, polyethylene glycol 600 and propylene glycol.
15.The   water-dispersible    composition      according  to claim      1 wherein     the
   emulsifier is selected from one or more of hydrogenated castor oil, lecithin,
   macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate, oat oil polar lipids, phosphatidylcholine,
   poloxamers, polyoxyl 35 castor oil, polyoxyl 40 castor oil,, polysorbate 20,
   polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80 and polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.
16.The   water-dispersible    composition      according  to claim      1 wherein     the
   antioxidant is selected from one or more of lecithin, ascorbyl palmitate,
   d-alpha-tocopherol,    dl-alpha-tocopherol,      d-alpha-Tocopheryl     acetate,    dl
   alpha-Tocopheryl     acetate,    d-alpha-Tocopheryl     acid    succinate,  dl-alpha
   Tocopheryl    acid  succinate,     Vitamin     E and   derivatives    thereof,   Olive
   polyphenols and Algal polyphenols.
17.The water-dispersible composition according to claim 1 further comprising an
   excipient.
18.The water-dispersible composition of claim 17 wherein the excipient is
   selected    from    one    or     more      of  Colloidal    silica,   Corn    starch,
   Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),           Maltodextrin,   Magnesium stearate,
   Magnesium hydroxide, Microcrystalline cellulose, dextrin, sorbitol, mannitol
   and Trehalose.
19.The water-dispersible composition of claim 1, comprising:
          at least one Omega-3 source, from 10% to about 90% by weight, and
   one or more of:
          at least one carrier oil, up to about 70% by weight;
          at least one solvent, up to about 20% by weight;
          at least one emulsifier, up to about 30% by weight; and
          at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.01% by weight.
                                        - 25 -

20.The water-dispersible composition of claim 19, comprising at least one
   Omega-3 source, from 80% to about 87% by weight, and one or more of:
        at least one carrier oil, up to about 11% by weight;
        at least one solvent, up to about 10% by weight;
        at least one emulsifier, up to about 11% by weight; and
        at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.1% by weight.
21.The water-dispersible composition of claim 20, comprising:
        at least one Omega-3 source, at about 87% by weight;
        at least one solvent, at about 9.75% by weight; and
        at least one emulsifier, at about 3.25% by weight.
22.The water-dispersible composition of claim 20, comprising:
        at least one Omega-3 source, at about 85% by weight;
        at least one carrier oil, at about 2.25% by weight;
        at least one solvent, at about 2.25% by weight;
        at least one emulsifier, at about 10.48% by weight; and
        at least one antioxidant, at about 0.02% by weight.
23.The water-dispersible composition of claim 20, comprising:
        at least one Omega-3 source, at about 80% by weight;
        at least one carrier oil, at about 10.5% by weight;
        at least one emulsifier, at about 9.4% by weight; and
        at least one antioxidant, at about 0.1% by weight.
24.The water-dispersible composition of claim 20, comprising:
        at least one Omega-3 source, at about 85% by weight;
        at least one carrier oil, at about 4.8% by weight;
        at least one solvent, at about 4.8% by weight;
        at least one emulsifier, at about 4.9% by weight; and
        at least one antioxidant, at about 0.5% by weight.
                                     - 26 -

25.The water-dispersible composition of claim 1, comprising at least one
   Omega-3 source, from 5% to about 70% by weight, and one or more of:
         at least one carrier oil, up to about 45% by weight;
         at least one solvent, up to about 10% by weight;
         at least one emulsifier, up to about 15% by weight; and
         at least one antioxidant, up to about 0.01% by weight;
         wherein the composition further comprises an excipient from 30% to
   about 90% by weight.
                                      - 27 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
