                                        ABSTRACT
   The present application discloses a method and an apparatus for processing
   transaction data, wherein the method includes: acquiring, by a user device,
   commodity information of any commodity in a shopping place from a server and
 5 outputting the commodity information; taking the commodity corresponding to
   the commodity information as a first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
   first purchasing request and determining purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity, the purchasing information at least including a
   commodity name and a purchasing quantity; the purchasing information at least
10 including a commodity name and a purchasing quantity; and sending the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server to
   facilitate the server to generate a first purchasing notification, the first purchasing
   notification being used for promoting a distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
15 commodity. The embodiments of the present application improve the shopping
   convenience and efficiency.

                                       1/8
A server provides commodity information of any commodity in a      101
                 shopping place to a user device
                                                                   102
       The user device outputs the commodity information
    The user device takes the commodity corresponding to the       103
   commodity information as a first pre-purchasing commodity
     when receiving a first purchasing request and determines
  purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity
The user device sends the purchasing information of the first pre- 104
               purchasing commodity to the server
 The server generates a first Purchasing notification according to 105
the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity
                                  Fig. 1

     METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING TRANSACTION DATA
   PRIORITY DOCUMENTS
   The present application        is a divisional application    of Australian Patent
 5 Application No. <removed-apn> titled "Method and Apparatus for Processing
   Transaction Data" and filed on 24 November 2016, which has an earliest priority
   date of 24 August 2016.       The content of this application is hereby incorporated
   by reference in its entirety.
10 TECHNICAL FIELD
        The present application relates to the field of electronic technologies, and
   more particularly, to a method and an apparatus for processing transaction data.
   BACKGROUND
        With the economic development and improvement of living standards, there
15 are increasing demands on shopping, shopping malls, so that supermarkets and
   other large shopping places are gradually rising.
        In the shopping places, a traditional shopping method is usually that a user
   selects commodities needed into a shopping cart, pays the commodities at a
   cashier, and then acquires the commodities after payment.
20      However, in this traditional shopping manner, when more commodities are
   purchased, the user needs to carry a number of commodities to move in the
   shopping place, which results in great inconvenience to the user while shopping.
   SUMMARY
        In light of this, a technical problem to be solved by the present application is
25 to provide a method and an apparatus for processing transaction data, which
   improve the shopping convenience.
                                            1

         In order to solve the foregoing technical problem, a first aspect of the
   present application provides a method for processing transaction data, including:
         acquiring, by a user device, commodity information of any commodity in a
   shopping place from a server and outputting the commodity information;
 5       taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity information as a first
   pre-purchasing    commodity when receiving a first purchasing request and
   determining purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity;
   wherein the purchasing information at least includes a commodity name and a
   purchasing quantity; and
10       sending the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to
   the server to facilitate the server to generate a first purchasing notification, the
   first purchasing notification being used for promoting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
15       A second aspect of the present application provides a method for processing
   transaction data, including:
         providing, by a server, commodity information of any commodity in a
   shopping place to a user device, which is outputted by the user device; and
         generating   a   first purchasing   notification   according  to   purchasing
20 information of a first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the
   user device after taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity
   information    as the first pre-purchasing      commodity and determining        the
25 purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
   first purchasing request, and the first purchasing notification being used for
   prompting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity according to the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity.
                                          2

         A third aspect of the present application provides an apparatus for
   processing transaction data, including:
         a commodity       acquisition  module       configured   to acquire    commodity
   information of any commodity in a shopping place from a server and output the
 5 commodity information;
         a first purchasing module configured to take the commodity corresponding
   to the commodity information as a first pre-purchasing commodity when
   receiving a first purchasing request and determine purchasing information of the
   first pre-purchasing commodity, the purchasing information at least including a
10 commodity name and a purchasing quantity; and
         a first transaction triggering module configured to send the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server to facilitate the
   server to generate a first purchasing notification, the first purchasing notification
   being used for promoting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity
15 according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity.
         A fourth aspect of the present application provides an apparatus for
   processing transaction data, including:
         a   commodity      providing  module       configured   to  provide    commodity
   information of any commodity in a shopping place to a user device, which is
20 outputted by the user device; and
         a first transaction generating module configured to generate a first
   purchasing     notification   according     to  purchasing    information    of a first
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the purchasing information of
25 the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the user device after taking the
   commodity       corresponding    to   the     commodity    information    as   the first
   pre-purchasing commodity and determining the purchasing information of the
   first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a first purchasing request, and the
   first purchasing notification being used for prompting a distribution personnel to
                                             3

   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         Compared with the prior art, the technical effects that may be obtained by
   the present application include:
 5       the commodity information of each commodity in the shopping place is
   saved in the server, and the user device may acquire the commodity information
   of any commodity from the server, and outputs the commodity information to a
   user to view; the user device takes the commodity information as the first
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the first purchasing request triggered
10 by the user and determines the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity, the purchasing information at least including a commodity name and
   a purchasing quantity; and the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity is sent to the server to facilitate the server to generate the first
   purchasing notification, the first purchasing notification being used for promoting
15 the distribution personnel to distribute commodity according to the purchasing
   information    of the     first  pre-purchasing   commodity. According       to   the
   embodiments of the present application, the user does not need to carry a number
   of commodities in the shopping place, and only needs to tell the purchasing
   information of the pre-purchasing commodity to a background server by using
20 the user device, then the server may notify the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity, so that the shopping convenience is improved, and the shopping
   efficiency is increased at the same time.
         Of course, implementing any product of the present application does not
   necessarily need to achieve all of the technical effects described above at the
25 same time.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         The   drawings    illustrated   herein  are   intended   to  provide    further
   understanding of the present application, constituting a part of the present
                                           4

   application. Exemplary embodiments and explanations of the present application
   here are only for explanation of the present invention, but are not intended to
   limit the present application. In the drawings:
         Fig. 1 is a flow chart of one embodiment of a method for processing
 5 transaction data of the embodiments of the present application;
         Figs. 2a to 2c are schematic diagrams for displaying a user device in the
   embodiments of the present application respectively;
         Fig. 3 is a flow chart of another embodiment of a method for processing
   transaction data of the embodiments of the present application;
10       Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram for displaying a user device in the
   embodiments of the present application;
         Fig. 5 is a structural schematic diagram of one embodiment of an apparatus
   for processing transaction data of the embodiments of the present application;
         Fig. 6 is a structural schematic diagram of another embodiment of an
15 apparatus for processing transaction data of the embodiments of the present
   application;
         Fig. 7 is a structural schematic diagram of another embodiment of an
   apparatus for processing transaction data of the embodiments of the present
   application; and
20       Fig. 8 is a structural schematic diagram of another embodiment of an
   apparatus for processing transaction data of the embodiments of the present
   application.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
25       The implementation manners of the present application will be explained in
   details with reference to the drawings and embodiments hereinafter, so that the
   realization process of how to solve the technical problems by using a technical
   means and achieve the technical efficacy can be sufficiently understood and
                                           5

   implemented accordingly.
         The technical solutions of the present application are mainly applied to
   supermarkets, emporiums and other shopping places, and particularly applied in
   supermarkets because a user will usually purchase a large number of commodities
 5 since the supermarkets have wide range and huge amount of commodities. While
   in a traditional way of shopping, the user needs to select commodities from
   commodity shelves, put the commodities into a shopping cart or shopping bag,
   and pays at a casher. However, the user usually needs to wait for a very long time
   to pay the commodities due to the lacking of cashers. Therefore, the shopping is
10 very inconvenient, and the shopping efficiency is affected.
         In order to solve the technical problem of inconvenient shopping in the prior
   art, the inventor has made a series of studies on the technical solution of the
   present application. In the embodiments of the present application, a user may
   acquire commodity information of any commodity in a shopping place from a
15 server through a user device, and output the commodity information; the server is
   saved with commodity information of different commodities in the shopping
   place; the user device takes the commodity corresponding to the commodity
   information as a first pre-purchasing         commodity when receiving       a first
   purchasing     request   and   determines   purchasing  information   of the    first
20 pre-purchasing commodity, the purchasing information at least including a
   commodity name and a purchasing quantity; and the purchasing information of
   the first pre-purchasing commodity is sent to the server to facilitate the server to
   generate the first purchasing notification, the first purchasing notification being
   used for promoting the distribution personnel to distribute commodity according
25 to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity. According
   to the embodiments of the present application, the user does not need to carry a
   number of commodities in the shopping place, and only needs to tell the
   purchasing information of the pre-purchasing commodity to a background server
   by using the user device, then the server may notify the distribution personnel to
                                           6

   distribute commodity; the user may get the commodities at a commodity
   distribution place, and the distribution personnel may also send the commodities
   to a place designated by the user, so that the shopping convenience is improved,
   and the shopping efficiency is increased at the same time.
 5       The technical solutions of the present application will be described in details
   hereinafter with reference to the drawings.
         Fig. 1 is a flow chart of one embodiment of a method for processing
   transaction data provided by the embodiments of the present application. The
   method may include the several steps as follows.
10       In step 101: a server provides commodity information of any commodity in a
   shopping place to a user device.
         In step 102: the user device outputs the commodity information.
         In the shopping place, the commodity is usually disposed in a commodity
   shelf.
15       Commodity information of different commodities in the shopping place is
   pre-saved in the server.
         The server may be a server in an ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning,
   Enterprise Resource Planning) system in the shopping place.
         Wherein, the commodity information may at least include a commodity
20 name, and certainly, may also include a commodity price, a commodity
   introduction content, etc.
         Moreover, the commodity information may also include a prompt message
   for purchasing, a prompt message for adding the commodity into a shopping list,
   or the like.
25       Fig. 2a is a schematic diagram for displaying commodity information
   outputted by the user device in one practical application. The commodity
   information may include a commodity name 201, a prompt message for
   purchasing 202, a prompt message for adding the commodity into a shopping list
                                          7

   203, a commodity price 204, a commodity introduction content 205, etc. The
   commodity      introduction  content   includes   word    explanation and picture
   explanation, or the like.
         When all the contents of the commodity information cannot be displayed in
 5 a screen of the user device completely, a page turning operation may also be
   conducted to view contents that are not displayed.
         It should be noted that Fig. 2a is merely a block diagram that is exemplary
   and explanatory to the displaying of the commodity information in the user
   device, and should not be deemed as a specific limitation to the specific contents
10 and display configuration of the commodity information of the present invention.
   The specific contents of the commodity information may be changed according to
   different practical application situations, and the display configuration of the
   commodity information in the page may also be adjusted according to the actual
   situations.
15       Moreover, the user device may acquire commodity information of more
   commodities from the server. At this moment, the commodity information of each
   commodity may be outputted in a form of list.
         In step 103: the user device takes the commodity corresponding to the
   commodity information as a first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
20 first purchasing request and determines purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         Wherein, the purchasing information may include a commodity name and a
   purchasing quantity, and may also include a commodity price and other
   information.
25       The first purchasing request may be triggered by the user, and may be
   specifically generated by triggering the prompt message for purchasing.
         Wherein, the purchasing quantity of the purchasing information may be
   inputted by the user and carried in the first purchasing request.
                                           8

         In step 104: the user device sends the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity to the server.
         In step 105: the server generates a first purchasing notification according to
   the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity, the first
 5 purchasing notification being used for prompting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         The server generates the first purchasing notification namely after acquiring
   the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity. The first
10 purchasing notification may be sent to a user device of the distribution personnel
   and outputted, to facilitate prompting the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity.
         According to the embodiment of the present application, the commodities
   may be uniformly distributed by a special distribution personnel, and the user
15 does not need to carry a large number of commodities to move, so that the
   shopping convenience and the shopping efficiency are improved.
         As another embodiment, the server, after generating the first purchasing
   notification according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity, may also send commodity pick-up address information to the user
20 device, then the user device outputs the address information, so that the user may
   uniformly pick up the first pre-purchasing commodity at a commodity pick-up
   place corresponding to the commodity pick-up address. Wherein, the commodity
   pick-up address may be a cashier desk of the shopping place, so that the user may
   directly acquire the first pre-purchasing commodity after paying at the cashier
25 desk.
         Certainly, the user device may send receiving address information to the
   server according to a user address request, wherein the receiving address
   information may be carried in the purchasing information, so that the first
   purchasing notification is specifically used for notifying the distribution
                                          9

   personnel to distribute commodities according to the purchasing information of
   the first pre-purchasing commodity and deliver the commodities according to the
   receiving address.
         The user device may also send a commodity pick-up time or a commodity
 5 receiving time to the server according to a user time request, thus picking up or
   receiving commodity by appointments.
         The first pre-purchasing commodity may be paid after the user acquires the
   first pre-purchasing commodity. Of course, other payment methods may also be
   used.
10       As another embodiment, after the user sends the purchasing information of
   the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server, the method may also include the
   following steps.
         The server generates first transaction order information according to the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity, wherein the first
15 transaction order information at least includes a commodity name and a total
   commodity price of the first pre-purchasing commodity; of course, the transaction
   order information may also include the commodity pick-up address information
   or the receiving address information, etc.
         The user device receives the first transaction order information sent by the
20 server and outputs the first transaction order information.
         The user device sends transaction confirmation information to the server
   when receiving a user confirmation request.
         Then the server generates the first purchasing notification after receiving the
   transaction confirmation information.
25       By outputting the first transaction order information, the user is facilitate to
   confirm a pre-purchasing commodity and a commodity price, so as to decide
   whether to purchase; therefore, the user device sends the transaction confirmation
   information to the server when receiving the user confirmation request, and then
                                           10

   the server generates the first purchasing notification.
         Certainly, the user device sends transaction cancellation information to the
   server when receiving a user cancellation request, so that the server may cancel
   the transaction after receiving the transaction cancellation information and delete
 5 the first transaction order information.
         Fig. 2b is a schematic diagram for displaying the first transaction order
   information outputted by the user device in one practical application. The first
   transaction order information at least includes a total commodity price of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity, and may also include information like a commodity
10 pick-up address, commodity pick-up or delivery time, etc.
         The first transaction order information may also be modified, for example,
   the commodity pick-up address and the commodity pick-up or delivery time may
   be modified.
         The user may perform an order submission operation after confirming the
15 transaction order information, and the user device may send the transaction
   confirmation information to the server after receiving an order submission
   request.
         Wherein, as another embodiment, in order to improve the shopping
   convenience and shopping efficiency to facilitate the payment of the user, the
20 sending the transaction confirmation information to the server when receiving the
   user confirmation request may include:
         invoking a third party system to perform online payment according to the
   total commodity price of the first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the
   user confirmation request; and
25       sending the transaction confirmation information to the server after the
   online payment is successful.
         That is, the user may perform online payment through the user device, thus
   not needing to wait at a cashier desk for payment, so that the shopping
                                           11

   convenience is further improved.
        Fig. 2c is a schematic diagram for displaying the online payment outputted
   by the user device after the user confirms the order in one practical application. A
   third party system, for example, a banking system or a third party payment
 5 platform, may be invoked to perform online payment, and then the transaction
   confirmation information is sent to the server after the online payment is
   successful.
        More commodities may be possibly by the user while shopping; therefore, as
   another embodiment as shown in Fig. 3, after the user device outputs the
10 commodity information in step 102, the method may also include the following
   steps.
        In step 106: the user device records the commodity corresponding to the
   commodity information into a pre-purchasing list when receiving a recording
   request.
15      Commodities expected to be purchased by the user may be recorded in the
   pre-purchasing list.
        In step 107: the user device determines a second pre-purchasing commodity
   in the pre-purchasing       list and purchasing      information   of the second
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a second purchasing request.
20      Wherein, more second pre-purchasing commodities may be included.
        It should be noted that "the first pre-purchasing commodity" and the "second
   pre-purchasing commodity" are only intended to distinct purchasing manners of
   two different commodities from description. The "first" and the "second" do not
   possess any other signification.
25      The user device may output the pre-purchasing list according to a user
   output request, and the user may select the second pre-purchasing commodity
   expected to be purchased from the pre-purchasing list, so that the second
   purchasing request may be triggered.
                                           12

         The purchasing information may include a commodity name and a
   purchasing quantity, and may also include a unit commodity price and a total
   commodity price, or the like.
         Wherein, the purchasing quantity of the purchasing information may be
 5 inputted by the user and carried in the second purchasing request.
         Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram for displaying the pre-purchasing list in one
   practical application. In Fig. 4, the pre-purchasing list includes and records a
   commodity name 401 of each commodity, a single commodity price 402, a
   purchasing quantity 403 and a total commodity price of a single commodity 404.
10       The second pre-purchasing commodity may be one or more commodities
   selected from the pre-purchasing list, so that the second purchasing request is
   triggered; therefore, the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing
   commodity may also include the total commodity price of more commodities, like
   the total commodity price 405 in Fig. 4.
15       As another embodiment, after outputting the pre-purchasing list, the user
   may update the purchasing information of the commodity in the pre-purchasing
   list.
         Therefore, after outputting the pre-purchasing list when receiving the user
   output request, the method may also include:
20       updating purchasing information of a commodity requested to be updated in
   the pre-purchasing list when receiving a user update request.
         The updating may include modifying a purchasing quantity, or deleting the
   purchasing information of the commodity from the pre-purchasing list, etc.
         In step 108: the user device sends the purchasing information of the second
25 pre-purchasing commodity to the server.
         In step 109: the server generates a second purchasing notification according
   to the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity, the
   second purchasing notification being used for promoting the distribution
                                           13

   personnel to distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the
   second pre-purchasing commodity.
         The server generates the second purchasing notification namely after
   acquiring the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity.
 5 The second purchasing notification may be sent to a user device of the
   distribution personnel and outputted, to facilitate prompting the distribution
   personnel to distribute the second pre-purchasing commodity.
         Through the embodiment of the present application, the commodity may be
   purchased by scanning an information code corresponding to the commodity,
10 which not only can purchase one commodity directly, but also can add more
   commodities into the pre-purchasing list and purchase more commodities at a
   time; moreover, the user does not need to carry a large number of commodities to
   move, so that the shopping convenience and the shopping efficiency are
   improved.
15       Wherein, the server, after generating the second purchasing notification
   according to the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity,
   may also send commodity pick-up address information to the user device, then
   the user device outputs the address information, so that the user may uniformly
   pick up the second pre-purchasing commodity at a commodity pick-up place
20 corresponding to the commodity pick-up address. Wherein, the commodity
   pick-up address may be a cashier desk of the shopping place, so that the user may
   directly acquire the second pre-purchasing commodity after paying at the cashier
   desk.
         Certainly, the user device may send a receiving address to the server
25 according to a user address request, wherein the receiving address may be carried
   in the purchasing information, so that the second purchasing notification is
   specifically   used  for   notifying  the   distribution   personnel to   distribute
   commodities     according    to   the  purchasing     information  of the    second
   pre-purchasing commodity and deliver the commodities according to the
                                          14

   receiving address.
         As another embodiment, the user device may also send a commodity pick-up
   time or a commodity receiving time to the server according to a user time request,
   thus picking up or receiving commodity by appointments.
 5       The second pre-purchasing commodity may be paid after the user acquires
   the second pre-purchasing commodity.
         As another embodiment, after the user sends the purchasing information of
   the second purchasing commodity, the method further includes the following
   step.
10       The server generates second transaction order information according to the
   purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity, the second
   transaction order information at least including a commodity name and a total
   commodity price of the second pre-purchasing commodity; of course, the
   transaction order information may also include the commodity pick-up address
15 information or the receiving address information, etc.
         The user device receives the second transaction order information sent by
   the server and outputs the transaction order information.
         The user device sends transaction confirmation information to the server
   when receiving a user confirmation request.
20       Then the server generates the second purchasing notification after receiving
   the transaction confirmation information.
         By outputting the second transaction order information, the user is facilitate
   to confirm a pre-purchasing commodity and a commodity price, so as to decide
   whether to purchase; therefore, the user device sends the transaction confirmation
25 information to the server when receiving the user confirmation request, and then
   the server generates the second purchasing notification.
         Certainly, the user device sends transaction cancellation information to the
   server when receiving a user cancellation request, so that the server may cancel
                                          15

   the transaction after receiving the transaction cancellation information and delete
   the second transaction order information.
         Wherein, as another embodiment, in order to improve the shopping
   convenience and shopping efficiency to facilitate the payment of the user, the
 5 sending the transaction confirmation information to the server may include:
         invoking a third party system to perform online payment according to the
   total commodity price of the second pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
   user payment request; and
         sending the transaction confirmation information to the server after the
10 online payment is successful.
         That is, the user may perform online payment through the user device, thus
   not needing to wait at a cashier desk for payment, so that the shopping
   convenience is further improved.
         Wherein, in the foregoing embodiments, there may be various probable
15 implementation manners for the server to provide the commodity information of
   any commodity in the shopping place to the user device.
         In one probable implementation manner, the commodity information of any
   commodity in the shopping place provided by the server to the user device may
   be as follows:
20       the user device scans an information code corresponding to any commodity
   in the shopping place and sends code scanning information acquired through
   scanning to the server; and
         the server searches commodity information of different commodities and
   code scanning information thereof, acquires commodity information matched
25 with the code scanning information and sends the commodity information to the
   user device.
         Wherein, the server      is correspondingly    pre-saved with commodity
   information of different commodities and code scanning information thereof.
                                           16

         The scanning the information code corresponding to the commodity in the
   commodity shelf by the user device may be to scan a commodity information
   code of the commodity, which is usually located in an overwrap of the
   commodity, so as to acquire code scanning information, wherein the commodity
 5 information code is namely included in the code scanning information.
         Moreover, during practical application, to facilitate the user to search
   commodities and vie related information of the commodities, for instance, name,
   price, or the like, a label will be arranged for each commodity on a commodity
   shelf. The label may be used for recognizing different commodities, and may be
10 used for displaying the related information of a corresponding commodity thereof,
   for instance, may display such related information of the commodity as a name
   and/or a commodity price of the commodity, a commodity origin, etc.
         Each label may have a label information code, each commodity is
   corresponding to one label information code, and the label information code,
15 which may be a one-dimensional code or a two-dimensional code, may be
   displayed in the label. In one practical application, the label may be a price label
   namely for displaying a commodity price of a corresponding commodity.
         Therefore, as another embodiment, the scanning the information code
   corresponding to any commodity in the shopping place by the user device may be
20 to scan the label information code of the commodity label, and the label
   information code is namely included in the code scanning information.
         Wherein, the label may either be a paper label, or an electronic shelf label
   (Electronic Shelf Label System, ESL). The electronic shelf label is an electronic
   display device placed on the commodity shelf to replace a traditional paper label,
25 can display such information as the price, information code, trademark and/or
   inventory of the commodity, or the like, and may modify the information
   displayed.
         When the label is an electronic shelf label, the server may respectively scan
   each commodity and an electronic shelf label of each commodity by using a
                                           17

   scanner, and may search the commodity information of the commodity according
   to the commodity information code, thus being capable of updating the
   information displayed in the electronic shelf label corresponding to the label
   information code according to the commodity information, and enabling the
 5 commodity to be bound to the electronic shelf label, so that the user device can
   both acquire the corresponding commodity information through scanning the
   commodity information code or the label information code.
         The commodity information code and the label information code may be
   one-dimensional code or two-dimensional code, etc, and are unique identities.
10       In another probable implementation manner, the providing, by the server,
   the commodity information of any commodity in the shopping place to the user
   device may be as follows:
        positioning, by the server, the user device and acquiring a device position of
   the user device; and
15       searching, by the server, a commodity position of any commodity in the
   shopping place and determining a commodity closest to the device position; and
   providing commodity information of the commodity closest to the device position
   to the user device.
         Wherein, one or more commodities closest to the device position may be
20 included; when more commodities are included, the user device may output the
   commodity      information  of each    commodity respectively,     or output the
   commodity information of each commodity in a form of list at the same time.
        A commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place is pre-saved
   by the server.
25       Wherein, a wireless device may be pre-arranged in each commodity shelf of
   the shopping place; and the user device is used for receiving a wireless signal
   sent by the wireless device and/or sending a wireless signal to the wireless
   device.
                                          18

         Therefore, the positioning, by the server, the user device and acquiring the
   device position of the user device may be as follows:
         positioning a device position of the user device according to the wireless
   signal of the wireless device received by the user device and a position of the
 5 wireless device.
         The user device may upload the wireless signal of the wireless device
   received to the server, so that the server may position the user device.
         Wherein, the positioning the device position of the user device according to
   the wireless signal of the wireless device received and the position of the wireless
10 device may be calculated and acquired according to a signal intensity of the
   wireless signal of the wireless device received by the user device and the position
   of the wireless device.
         A distance between the user device and the wireless device may be
   calculated according to the signal intensity of the wireless device received, so
15 that the device position may be calculated and acquired according to the distance
   between the user device and the wireless device and the position of the wireless
   device. To be specific, a centroid algorithm may be adopted to calculate and
   acquire the device position by using the distance between the user device and the
   wireless device and the position of the wireless device.
20       The user device may receive wireless signals of more wireless devices, and
   wireless signals of N wireless devices may be selected and used for calculation
   according to a space dimension M of a position coordinate space and according
   to a descending sequence of signal intensities. Wherein, N is greater than or equal
   to M+ 1, and to be specific, may be equal to M+ 1. The device position of the user
25 device may be calculated and acquired by using the distance between the user
   device and the N wireless devices and the positions of the N wireless devices.
         Wherein, as a probable implementation manner, the distance between the
   user device and the wireless device may be calculated according to the wireless
   signal of the wireless device received by the user device by using a following
                                           19

   formula:
                 |R|- A
         d =10    1**"
         R represents a signal intensity; d represents a distance between a hand-held
   terminal and the wireless device; A represents a signal intensity of a wireless
 5 signal sent by a sending device and received by a receiving device when the
   distance is Im; and n represents a environmental attenuation factor.
        As another probable implementation manner, the distance between the user
   device and the wireless device may be calculated according to the wireless signal
   of the wireless device received by the user device by using a following formula:
10       d2 =C2(RO    - R );
         R represents a signal intensity, d represents the distance between the user
   device and the wireless device, C is a conversion scaling factor, Ro may be an
   international standard value, or a mean signal intensity received when sending
   devices with known positions are infinitely close to receiving devices of different
15 models.
         Wherein, a primary preset value may be selected as C; of course, in order to
   acquire an accurate conversion scaling factor, the user device may select           Q
   effective devices from the wireless devices corresponding to the wireless signals
   received, and   Q is   greater than or equal to M+1; to be specific, Q may be equal to
20 M+1.A numerical value of the conversion scaling factor is adjusted by using the
   Q  effective devices, and a corrected value of the conversion scaling factor is
   sought, the corrected value enabling         Q  circles or spheres formed by using a
   position of each effective device as a center and a corrected distance between
   each effective device and the target device as a radius to have a unique
25 intersection. Then the distance between the user device and the wireless device is
   calculated by using the corrected value of the conversion scaling factor acquired.
         Wherein, the position of the wireless device may either be preset in the
   foregoing possible implementation manner, or be acquired through calculation.
                                             20

         In a probable implementation manner, the wireless device may include a first
   class device and a second class device, wherein a position of the first class device
   is known; the first class device may upload the wireless signal received to the
   server; and the second class device may upload the wireless signal received to the
 5 server. In order to facilitate signal transmission, a first control device, which may
   specifically be an AP ( (Wireless Access Point, Wireless Access Point) may be
   disposed in an indoor ceiling of the shopping place, and the wireless signals
   received by the first class device and the second device are uploaded to the server
   through the first control device.
10       The position of the wireless device may be pre-determined according to a
   following manner:
        the user uses the first class device and/or the second class device with
   determined position as the known device, and positions a position of any second
   class device with indeterminate position according to the position of the known
15 device and a wireless signal sent by any second class device with indeterminate
   position and received by the known device.
         Wherein, the second class device may be specifically disposed in the
   commodity shelf.
         In another probable implementation manner, a second control device with
20 known position is disposed in the indoor ceiling of the shopping place. the
   second control device may be disposed in the indoor ceiling according to a preset
   arrangement.
         The second control device may upload the wireless signal received by the
   second control device and sent by the wireless device to the server;
25      then the position of the wireless device may be pre-determined according to
   a following manner:
        positioning, by the service system, a position of the wireless device
   according to the wireless signal received by the second control device and sent by
                                            21

   the wireless device and a position of the second control device.
        Wherein, as a probable implementation manner, a commodity position of
   any commodity in the shopping place saved in the server may be pre-determined
   according to a following manner:
 5      positioning, by the server, a code scanning position of a scanner during each
   code scanning according to the wireless signal of the wireless device received
   when the scanner performs code scanning on each commodity in the commodity
   shelf and/or a label corresponding to the commodity as well as the position of the
   wireless device; and
10      taking the code scanning position of the scanner during each code scanning
   as a commodity position of the commodity subjected to the code scanning of the
   scanner.
        Wherein, each commodity in the commodity shelf may be corresponding to
   one wireless device, and each commodity may be corresponding to one label;
15      the positioning, by the server, the code scanning position of the scanner
   during each code scanning according to the wireless signal of the wireless device
   received when the scanner performs code scanning on each commodity in the
   commodity shelf and/or the label corresponding to the commodity as well as the
   position of the wireless device may be specifically as follows:
20      determining, by the server, a position of a wireless device closest to the
   scanner as a commodity position of a commodity subjected to code scanning
   according to the wireless signal of the wireless device received when the scanner
   performs code scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf and/or the
   label corresponding to the commodity.
25      Wherein, the closest wireless device is namely the wireless device having
   strongest signal intensity.
        Of course, the position may also be acquired by calculating and positioning
   according to the wireless signals and the position, while a manner for calculating
                                          22

   and positioning according to the wireless signals and the position may be seen in
   the description above, and will not be elaborated herein.
         When no label is arranged in the commodity shelf, the server positions the
   code scanning position of the scanner during each code scanning according to the
 5 wireless signal of the wireless device received when the scanner performs code
   scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf and the position of the
   wireless device, wherein the position of the wireless device having strongest
   signal intensity may be selected as the commodity position of the commodity
   subjected to code scanning.
10      As another probable implementation manner, each commodity in the
   commodity shelf may be corresponding to one wireless device, and each
   commodity may be corresponding to one label;
         the commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place saved in
   the server may be pre-determined according to a following manner:
15      receiving a commodity information code and a label information code sent
   by the scanner and acquired through performing code scanning on each
   commodity in the commodity shelf and a label corresponding to the commodity
   by the scanner; and
         searching a corresponding relationship between different labels and different
20 wireless devices according to the commodity information code and the label
   information code; and taking the position of the wireless device corresponding to
   the label of each commodity subjected to code scanning as the commodity
   position of the commodity.
         The code scanning of the scanner on each commodity in the commodity
25 shelf and the label corresponding to the commodity is to bind the commodity to
   the label thereof.
         The label may be an integrated device that is integrated in a corresponding
   wireless device thereof, then a corresponding relationship between the label and
                                          23

   the wireless device may be sent to the server by the wireless device.
        Fig. 5 is a structural schematic diagram of one embodiment of an apparatus
   for processing transaction data provided by the embodiments of the present
   application. The apparatus is specifically configured in a user device during
 5 practical application, and the user device may be mobile phone, a tablet and other
   mobile portable smart devices used by a user.
        The apparatus may include:
        a commodity acquisition module 501 configured to acquire commodity
   information of any commodity in a shopping place from a server and output the
10 commodity information;
        a first purchasing module 502 configured to take the commodity
   corresponding to the commodity information as the first pre-purchasing
   commodity when receiving a first purchasing request and determined the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity, wherein, the
15 purchasing information may at least include a commodity name and a purchasing
   quantity, and may also include a commodity price and other information; and
        a first transaction triggering module 503 configured to send the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server to facilitate the
   server to generate a first purchasing notification, the first purchasing notification
20 being used for promoting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity
   according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity.
        According to the embodiment of the present application, the commodities
   may be uniformly distributed by a special distribution personnel, and the user
   does not need to carry a large number of commodities to move, so that the
25 shopping convenience and the shopping efficiency are improved.
        Moreover, as another embodiment, the apparatus may also include:
        a first order acquisition module configured to receive first transaction order
   information sent by the server, wherein the first transaction order information is
                                          24

   generated by the server according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity, and at least includes a commodity name and a total
   commodity price of the first pre-purchasing commodity; and of course, the
   transaction order information may also include the commodity pick-up address
 5 information or the receiving address information, etc; and
         a first transaction confirming module configured to send transaction
   confirmation information to the server when receiving a user confirmation
   request to facilitate the server to generate the first purchasing notification after
   receiving     the transaction  confirmation   information,   the first   purchasing
10 notification being used for promoting the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity.
         As another embodiment, in order to improve the shopping convenience and
   shopping efficiency to facilitate the payment of the user, the first transaction
15 confirming module may include:
         a first payment unit configured to invoke a third party system to perform
   online payment according to the total commodity price of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity when receiving a user confirmation request; and
         a first confirmation unit configured to send transaction confirmation
20 information to the server after the online payment is successful.
         The user may possibly need to purchase more commodities during shopping
   at a time; therefore, as another embodiment, the difference of the embodiment as
   shown in Fig. 6 from that as shown in Fig. 5 lies in that the apparatus may
   include:
25       a recording module 504 configured to record the commodity corresponding
   to the commodity information into a pre-purchasing list when receiving a
   recording request;
         a second purchasing module 505 configured to determine purchasing
                                          25

   information of a second pre-purchasing commodity in the pre-purchasing list
   when receiving a second purchasing request; and
         a second transaction triggering module 506 configured to send the
   purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity to the server to
 5 facilitate the server to generate a second purchasing notification, the second
   purchasing notification being used for promoting the distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the second
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         Moreover, the apparatus may also include:
10       a list output module configured to output the pre-purchasing list when
   receiving a user output request, the pre-purchasing list including purchasing
   information of each commodity recorded.
         The purchasing information may either include a purchasing quantity, or
   include a purchasing price.
15       As another embodiment, the apparatus may also include:
         a list updating module configured to update purchasing information of a
   commodity requested to be updated in the pre-purchasing list when receiving a
   user update request.
         The updating may include modifying a purchasing quantity, or deleting the
20 purchasing information of the commodity from the pre-purchasing list, etc.
         Through the embodiment of the present application, the commodity may be
   purchased by scanning an information code corresponding to the commodity,
   which not only can purchase one commodity directly, but also can add more
   commodities into the pre-purchasing list and purchase more commodities at a
25 time; moreover, the user does not need to carry a large number of commodities to
   move, so that the shopping convenience and the shopping efficiency are
   improved.
                                        26

        As another embodiment, the apparatus may also include:
         a second order acquisition module configured to receive second transaction
   order information sent by the server, wherein the second transaction order
   information is generated by the server according to the purchasing information of
 5 the second pre-purchasing commodity, and at least includes a total commodity
   price of the second pre-purchasing commodity; of course, the second transaction
   order information may also include commodity pick-up address information or
   receiving address information, etc; and
         a second transaction confirming module configured to send transaction
10 confirmation information to the server when receiving a user confirmation
   request to facilitate the server to generate a second purchasing notification after
   receiving the transaction confirmation information, the second purchasing
   notification being used for prompting the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity according to the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing
15 commodity.
        As another embodiment, in order to improve the shopping convenience and
   shopping efficiency to facilitate the payment of the user, the second transaction
   confirming module may include:
         a second payment unit configured to invoke a third party system to perform
20 online payment according to the total commodity price of the second
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a user confirmation request; and
         a second confirmation unit configured to send transaction confirmation
   information to the server after the online payment is successful.
         That is, the user may perform online payment through the user device, thus
25 not needing to wait at a cashier desk for payment, so that the shopping
   convenience is further improved.
         In a probable implementation manner, the commodity acquisition module
   may include:
                                          27

         a code scanning unit configured to scan an information code corresponding
   to any commodity in the shopping place and send code scanning information
   acquired through scanning to the server; and
         an acquisition unit configured to receive the commodity information
 5 provided by the server and matched with the code scanning information and
   output the commodity information, Wherein, the server is correspondingly
   pre-saved with commodity information of different commodities and code
   scanning information thereof.
         In another probable implementation manner, the commodity acquisition
10 module may be specifically configured to:
         receive commodity information of a commodity closest to a device position
   of the user device provided by the server, the device position being acquired via
   positioning the user device by the server; and the server being pre-saved with a
   commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place.
15       Fig. 7 is a structural schematic diagram of another embodiment of an
   apparatus for processing transaction data provided by the embodiments of the
   present application. The apparatus is specifically configured in a server, wherein
   the apparatus may include:
         a commodity providing module 701 configured to provide commodity
20 information of any commodity in a shopping place to a user device which is
   outputted by the user device; and
         a first transaction generating module 702 configured to generate a first
   purchasing notification     according    to purchasing    information    of a first
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing information of the first
25 pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the purchasing information of
   the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the user device after taking the
   commodity      corresponding   to   the    commodity   information    as   the first
   pre-purchasing commodity and determining the purchasing information of the
   first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a first purchasing request, and the
                                          28

   first purchasing notification being used for prompting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         The apparatus may also be configured to receive code scanning information
 5 acquired by the scanner for scanning the commodity, and correspondingly save
   the commodity information of the commodity and the code scanning information.
         Wherein, the server, after generating the first purchasing notification
   according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity,
   may also send commodity pick-up address information to the user device, then
10 the user device outputs the address information, so that the user may uniformly
   pick up the first pre-purchasing commodity at a commodity pick-up place
   corresponding to the commodity pick-up address information. Wherein, the
   commodity pick-up address may be a cashier desk of the shopping place, so that
   the user may directly acquire the first pre-purchasing commodity after paying at
15 the cashier desk.
         Certainly, the user device may send a receiving address to the server
   according to a user address request, wherein the receiving address may be carried
   in the purchasing information, so that the first purchasing notification is
   specifically   used   for  notifying  the  distribution  personnel   to   distribute
20 commodities according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity and deliver the commodities according to the receiving address.
         As another embodiment, the user device may also send a commodity pick-up
   time or a commodity receiving time to the server according to a user time request,
   thus picking up or receiving commodity by appointments.
25       As another embodiment, the first transaction generating module may
   include:
         a first order generating unit configured to generate first transaction order
   information according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity, wherein the first transaction order information at least includes a
                                          29

   total commodity price        of the pre-purchasing     commodity; of course, the
   transaction order information may also include the commodity pick-up address
   information or the receiving address information, etc; and
         a first transaction generating unit configured to generate the first purchasing
 5 notification after receiving the transaction confirmation information of the user
   device.
         Wherein, the transaction confirmation information sent by the user device
   may be sent to the server after the user device invokes the third party system to
   perform online payment according to the total commodity price of the first
10 pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the user confirmation request and
   after the online payment is successful.
         As another embodiment as shown in Fig. 8, the apparatus, different from the
   embodiment as shown in Fig. 7, may also include:
         a second transaction generating module 703 configured to generate a second
15 purchasing notification when receiving purchasing information of a second
   pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the purchasing information of
   the second pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the user device after
   determining the second pre-purchasing commodity in a pre-purchasing list when
   receiving a second purchasing request; and the second purchasing notification
20 being used for prompting the distribution personnel to distribute commodity
   according      to  the purchasing    information   of the second      pre-purchasing
   commodity.
         As another embodiment, the second transaction generating module may
   include:
25       a second order generating unit configured to generate second transaction
   order information according to the purchasing information of the second
   pre-purchasing commodity, wherein the second transaction order information at
   least includes a total commodity price of the second pre-purchasing commodity;
   of course, the transaction order information may also include the commodity
                                            30

   pick-up address information or the receiving address information, etc; and
        a second transaction generating unit configured to generate the second
   purchasing notification after receiving the transaction confirmation information
   of the user device.
 5      Wherein, in a probable implementation manner, the commodity providing
   module may include:
        a receiving unit configured to receive code scanning information sent by the
   user device, the code scanning information being acquired by the user device
   through scanning an information code corresponding to any commodity in the
10 shopping place; and
        a sending unit configured to search commodity information of different
   commodities and code scanning information thereof, acquire commodity
   information matched with the code scanning information and send the commodity
   information to the user device.
15      In another probable implementation manner, the commodity providing
   module may include:
        a positioning unit configured to position the user device and acquire a
   device position of the user device; and
        a providing unit configured to search a commodity position of any
20 commodity in the shopping place and determine a commodity closest to the
   device position; and provide commodity information of the commodity closest to
   the device position to the user device.
        Wherein, a wireless device is pre-arranged in each commodity shelf in the
   shopping place; and the user device is used for receiving a wireless signal sent by
25 the wireless device and/or sending a wireless signal to the wireless device.
        The positioning unit may be specifically configured to:
        position a device position of the user device according to the wireless signal
   of the wireless device received by the user device and a position of the wireless
                                           31

   device.
         Wherein, the position of the wireless device may be acquired through
   calculation.
         Therefore, a probable implementation manner, the wireless device may
 5 include a first class device and a second class device, wherein a position of the
   first class device is known; the first class device may upload the wireless signal
   received to the server; and the second class device may upload the wireless signal
   received to the server. In order to facilitate signal transmission, a first control
   device, which may specifically be an AP, may be disposed in an indoor ceiling of
10 the shopping place, and the wireless signals received by the first class device and
   the second device are uploaded to the server through the first control device.
         The apparatus may also include:
         a first positioning module configured to take the first class device and/or the
   second class device with determined position as the known device, and position a
15 position of any second class device with indeterminate position according to the
   position of the known device and a wireless signal sent by any second class
   device with indeterminate position and received by the known device.
         In another probable implementation manner, a second control device with
   known position is disposed in the indoor ceiling of the shopping place. The
20 second control device may be disposed in the indoor ceiling according to a preset
   arrangement.
         The second control device may upload the wireless signal received by the
   second control device and sent by the wireless device to the server.
         The apparatus may also include:
25       positioning a position of the wireless device according to the wireless signal
   received by the second control device and sent by the wireless device and a
   position of the second control device.
                                          32

        Wherein, a commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place
   may be determined through various implementation manners.
        In a probable implementation manner, the apparatus may also include:
        a first commodity positioning module configured to position a code
 5 scanning position of a scanner during each code scanning according to the
   wireless signal of the wireless device received when the scanner performs code
   scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf and/or a label
   corresponding to the commodity as well as the position of the wireless device;
   and take the code scanning position of the scanner during each code scanning as
10 a commodity position of the commodity subjected to the code scanning of the
   scanner.
        Wherein, each commodity in the commodity shelf may be corresponding to
   one wireless device, and each commodity may be corresponding to one label;
        The first commodity positioning module may be specifically configured to
15 determine a position of a wireless device closest to the scanner as the commodity
   position of the commodity subjected to code scanning according to the wireless
   signal of the wireless device received when the scanner performs code scanning
   on each commodity in the commodity shelf and/or the label corresponding to the
   commodity.
20      Wherein, the closest wireless device is namely the wireless device having
   strongest signal intensity.
        Of course, the position may also be acquired by calculating and positioning
   according to the wireless signals and the position, while a manner for calculating
   and positioning according to the wireless signals and the position may be seen in
25 the description above, and will not be elaborated herein.
        In another probable manner, each commodity in the commodity shelf may be
   corresponding to one wireless device and each commodity may be corresponding
   to one label.
                                         33

        The apparatus may also include:
        a second commodity positioning module configured to receive a commodity
   information code and a label information code sent by the scanner and acquired
   through performing code scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf
 5 and a label corresponding to the commodity by the scanner; and search a
   corresponding relationship between different labels and different wireless devices
   according to the commodity information code and the label information code; and
   take the position of the wireless device corresponding to the label of each
   commodity subjected to code scanning as the commodity position of the
10 commodity.
        The embodiments of the present application also provide a system for
   processing transaction data, including a user device and a server. The user device
   may be configured with the apparatus for processing transaction data as shown in
   Fig. 5 or Fig. 6, while the server may be configured with the apparatus for
15 processing transaction data as shown in Fig. 7 or Fig. 8.
        Therefore, the embodiments of the present application also provide a user
   device, and the user device may include a memory and a processor;
        the memory is stored with a set or more sets of program instructions; and
        the processor is configured to invoke and perform the one set or more set of
20 program instructions in the memory to implement the following operations:
        acquiring commodity information of any commodity in a shopping place
   from a server and outputting the commodity information;
        taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity information as a first
   pre-purchasing   commodity when receiving a first purchasing request and
25 determining purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity, the
   purchasing information at least including a commodity name and a purchasing
   quantity; and
        sending the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to
                                         34

   the server to facilitate the server to generate a first purchasing notification, the
   first purchasing notification being used for promoting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
 5       The embodiments of the present application also provide a server, and the
   server may include a memory and a processor;
         the memory is stored with a set or more sets of program instructions; and
         the processor is configured to invoke and perform the one set or more set of
   program instructions in the memory to implement the following operations:
10       providing commodity information of any commodity in a shopping place to
   a user device which is outputted by the user device; and
         generating   a   first purchasing   notification   according  to   purchasing
   information of a first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the
15 purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the
   user device after taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity
   information    as the first pre-purchasing      commodity and determining        the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
   first purchasing request, and the first purchasing notification being used for
20 prompting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity according to the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity.
         Through the embodiments of the present application, when the user is
   purchasing in the shopping place, the server may provide commodity information
   to the user device, and the user may take the commodities expected to purchase
25 as pre-purchasing commodities through the user device, and submit the
   purchasing information to the server, so that the server may distribute
   commodities according to the purchasing information, which does not need to
   carry a large number of commodities; therefore, the shopping convenience and
   shopping efficiency are improved, and the user may perform online payment on
                                          35

   the pre-purchasing information through the user device, so that the time for
   waiting at the cashier desk is saved, and the shopping convenience and shopping
   efficiency are further improved.
         The functions described in the methods of the embodiments of the present
 5 application may be stored in a computing device readable storage medium if
   being implemented in a form of software functional units and sold or used as an
   independent product. Based on such understanding, the part of the embodiments
   of the present application contributing to the prior art, or the part of the technical
   solution may be implemented in the form of a software product. The computer
10 software product is stored in a storage medium, and includes several instructions
   for instructing a computing device (which may be a personal computer, a server,
   a mobile computing device or a network device so on) to execute all or a part of
   steps of the method according to each embodiment of the present application.
   While the forementioned storage medium includes: any medium that is capable of
15 storing program codes, such as a USB disk, a mobile hard disk drive, a read-only
   memory (ROM, Read-Only Memory), a random access memory (RAM, Random
   Access Memory), a magnetic disk, or an optical disk.
         The explanation above shows and describes more preferred embodiments of
   the present application, but as previously mentioned, it should be understood that
20 the present application is not limited to the forms disclosed herein, and shall not
   be deemed as an exclusion to other embodiments, but can be applied to various
   other combinations, amendments and circumstances, and can be modified
   through the foregoing teaching or technologies or knowledge of related arts
   within the scope of the application concept herein. While modifications and
25 changes made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and
   scope of the present application shall all fall within the protection scope of the
   claims of the present application appended.
                                          36

         What is claimed is:
         1. A method for processing transaction data, comprising:
         acquiring, by a user device, commodity information of any commodity in a
   shopping place from a server and outputting the commodity information;
 5       taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity information as a first
   pre-purchasing    commodity when receiving a first purchasing request and
   determining purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity,
   wherein the purchasing information at least comprises a commodity name and a
   purchasing quantity; and
10       sending the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to
   the server to facilitate the server to generate a first purchasing notification, the
   first purchasing notification being used for promoting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity;
15       wherein the step of acquiring, by the user device, the commodity
   information of any commodity in the shopping place from the server comprises:
         receiving, by the user device, commodity information of a commodity
   closest to a device position of the user device provided by the server; wherein the
   device position is acquired via positioning the user device by the server; and a
20 commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place is pre-saved by the
   server.
         2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the acquiring, by the user
   device, the commodity information of any commodity in the shopping place from
   the server and outputting the commodity information comprises:
25       scanning, by the user device, an information code corresponding to any
   commodity in the shopping place and sending code scanning information
   acquired through scanning to the server; and
         receiving the commodity information provided by the server and matched
                                             37

   with the code scanning information and outputting the commodity information;
   wherein commodity information of different commodities and code scanning
   information thereof are pre-saved correspondingly by the server.
         3. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the acquiring, by the user
 5 device, the commodity information of any commodity in the shopping place from
   the server and outputting the commodity information, the method further
   comprises:
         recording the commodity corresponding to the commodity information into a
   pre-purchasing list when receiving a recording request;
10       determining purchasing information of a second pre-purchasing commodity
   in the pre-purchasing list when receiving a second purchasing request; and
         sending   the   purchasing   information   of the   second    pre-purchasing
   commodity to the server to facilitate the server to generate a second purchasing
   notification, the second purchasing notification being used for promoting the
15 distribution personnel to distribute commodity according to the purchasing
   information of the second pre-purchasing commodity.
         4. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the sending the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server, the
   method further comprises:
20       receiving first transaction order information sent by the server, the first
   transaction order information being generated by the server according to the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity, and at least
   comprising a commodity name and a total commodity price of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity; and
25       sending transaction confirmation information to the server when receiving a
   user confirmation request to facilitate the server to generate the first purchasing
   notification after receiving the transaction confirmation information, the first
   purchasing notification being used for promoting the distribution personnel to
                                            38

   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the sending the transaction
   confirmation information to the server when receiving the user confirmation
 5 request comprises:
         invoking a third party system to perform online payment according to the
   total commodity price of the first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the
   user confirmation request; and
         sending the transaction confirmation information to the server after the
10 online payment is successful.
         6. The method according to claim 3, wherein after the recording the
   commodity corresponding to the commodity information into the pre-purchasing
   list when receiving the recording request, the method further comprises:
         outputting the pre-purchasing list when receiving a user output request, the
15 pre-purchasing list comprising purchasing information of each commodity
   recorded; and
         updating purchasing information of a commodity requested to be updated in
   the pre-purchasing list when receiving a user update request.
         7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the commodity is disposed in a
20 commodity shelf in the shopping place, and each commodity in each commodity
   shelf is corresponding to a label, the label being disposed on the commodity shelf
   and used for displaying related commodity information of a corresponding
   commodity thereof; and
         the scanning, by the user device, the information code corresponding to any
25 commodity in the shopping place and sending the code scanning information
   acquired through scanning to the server comprises:
         scanning, by the user device, a label information code on a label of any
   commodity in the commodity shelf or a commodity information code of the any
                                             39

   commodity, and sending the code scanning information acquired through
   scanning to the server, each label being pre-established with a binding
   relationship with the corresponding commodity.
         8. A method for processing transaction data, comprising:
 5       providing, by a server, commodity information of any commodity in a
   shopping place to a user device which is outputted by the user device; and
         generating   a  first  purchasing   notification   according to   purchasing
   information of a first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the
10 purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the
   user device after taking the commodity corresponding to the commodity
   information    as the first pre-purchasing      commodity and determining       the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a
   first purchasing request, and the first purchasing notification being used for
15 prompting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity according to the
   purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity;
         wherein the step of the providing, by the server, the commodity information
   of any commodity in the shopping place to the user device comprises:
         positioning the user device and acquiring a device position of the user
20 device; and
         searching a commodity position of any commodity in the shopping place and
   determining    a commodity closest to the device position;         and providing
   commodity information of the commodity closest to the device position to the
   user device.
25       9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the providing, by the server,
   the commodity information of any commodity in the shopping place to the user
   device comprises:
         receiving code scanning information sent by the user device, the code
                                            40

   scanning information being acquired by the user device through scanning an
   information code corresponding to any commodity in the shopping place; and
         searching commodity information of different commodities and code
   scanning information thereof, acquiring commodity information matched with the
 5 code scanning information and sending the commodity information to the user
   device.
         10. The method according to claim 8, wherein a wireless device is
   pre-arranged in each commodity shelf in the shopping place, the user device
   being used for receiving a wireless signal sent by the wireless device and/or
10 sending a wireless signal to the wireless device; and
         the positioning the user device and acquiring the device position of the user
   device comprises:
         positioning the device position of the user device according to the wireless
   signal of the wireless device received by the user device and a position of the
15 wireless device.
         11.   The method according to claim 8, wherein after the providing
   commodity information of any commodity in the shopping place to the user
   device and outputting, by the user device, the commodity information, the
   method further comprises:
20       generating a second purchasing notification when receiving purchasing
   information of a second pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the
   purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing commodity being sent by
   the user device after determining the second pre-purchasing commodity in a
   pre-purchasing list when receiving a second purchasing request; and the second
25 purchasing notification being used for prompting the distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the second
   pre-purchasing commodity.
         12. The method according to claim 10, wherein a commodity position of any
                                            41

   commodity in the commodity shelf is pre-determined according to a following
   manner:
        positioning a code scanning position of a scanner during each code scanning
   according to the wireless signal of the wireless device received when the scanner
 5 performs code scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf and/or a label
   corresponding to the commodity as well as the position of the wireless device;
   and
        taking the code scanning position of the scanner during each code scanning
   as a commodity position of the commodity subjected to the code scanning of the
10 scanner.
         13. The method according to claim 12, wherein each commodity in the
   commodity shelf is corresponding to a wireless device and a label; and
        the positioning the code scanning position of the scanner during each code
   scanning according to the wireless signal of the wireless device received when
15 the scanner performs code scanning on each commodity in the commodity shelf
   and/or the label corresponding to the commodity as well as the position of the
   wireless device comprises:
        determining a wireless device closest to the scanner according to the
   wireless signal of the wireless device received when the scanner performs code
20 scanning   on each commodity in the commodity             shelf and/or the label
   corresponding to the commodity; and
        positioning a position of the closest wireless device as the code scanning
   position of the scanner during code scanning.
         14. The method according to claim 10, wherein each commodity in the
25 commodity shelf is corresponding to a wireless device and a label; and
        a commodity position of any commodity in the commodity shelf is
   pre-determined according to a following manner:
        receiving a commodity information code and a label information code sent
                                            42

   by the scanner and acquired through performing code scanning on each
   commodity in the commodity shelf and a label corresponding to the commodity
   by the scanner; and
         searching a corresponding relationship between different labels and different
 5 wireless devices according to the commodity information code and the label
   information code; and taking the position of the wireless device corresponding to
   the label of each commodity subjected to code scanning as the commodity
   position of the commodity.
         15. An apparatus for processing transaction data, comprising:
10       a commodity      acquisition  module    configured    to acquire   commodity
   information of any commodity in a shopping place from a server and output the
   commodity information;
         a first purchasing module configured to take the commodity corresponding
   to the commodity information as a first pre-purchasing commodity when
15 receiving a first purchasing request and determine purchasing information of the
   first pre-purchasing commodity, the purchasing information at least comprising a
   commodity name and a purchasing quantity; and
         a first transaction triggering module configured to send the purchasing
   information of the first pre-purchasing commodity to the server to facilitate the
20 server to generate a first purchasing notification, the first purchasing notification
   being used for promoting a distribution personnel to distribute commodity
   according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing commodity;
         wherein the commodity acquisition module is specifically configured to:
   receive commodity information of a commodity closest to a device position of the
25 user device provided by the server; wherein the device position is acquired via
   positioning the user device by the server; and a commodity position of any
   commodity in the shopping place is pre-saved by the server.
         16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the commodity acquisition
                                            43

   module comprises:
         a code scanning unit configured to scan an information code corresponding
   to any commodity in the shopping place and send code scanning information
   acquired through scanning to the server; and
 5       an acquisition unit configured to receive the commodity information
   provided by the server and matched with the code scanning information and
   output the commodity information; wherein commodity information of different
   commodities       and   code    scanning    information    thereof   are   pre-saved
   correspondingly by the server.
10       17. The apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising:
         a recording module configured to record the commodity corresponding to
   the commodity information into a pre-purchasing list when receiving a recording
   request;
         a   second    purchasing   module   configured    to   determine   purchasing
15 information of a second pre-purchasing commodity in the pre-purchasing list
   when receiving a second purchasing request; and
         a second transaction triggering module configured to send the purchasing
   information of the second pre-purchasing commodity to the server to facilitate the
   server to generate a second purchasing notification, the second purchasing
20 notification being used for promoting the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity according to the purchasing information of the second pre-purchasing
   commodity.
         18. The apparatus according to claim 15, further comprising:
         a first order acquisition module configured to receive first transaction order
25 information sent by the server, the first transaction order information being
   generated by the server according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity, and at least comprising a commodity name and a total
   commodity price of the first pre-purchasing commodity; and
                                            44

         a first transaction confirming module configured to send transaction
   confirmation information to the server when receiving a user confirmation
   request to facilitate the server to generate the first purchasing notification after
   receiving    the transaction     confirmation   information,   the first   purchasing
 5 notification being used for promoting the distribution personnel to distribute
   commodity according to the purchasing information of the first pre-purchasing
   commodity.
         19. An apparatus for processing transaction data, comprising:
         a   commodity      providing  module     configured   to  provide    commodity
10 information of any commodity in a shopping place to a user device which is
   outputted by the user device; and
         a first transaction generating module configured to generate a first
   purchasing     notification   according   to  purchasing    information    of a first
   pre-purchasing commodity when receiving the purchasing information of the first
15 pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the purchasing information of
   the first pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the user device after taking the
   commodity      corresponding     to   the   commodity    information    as   the first
   pre-purchasing commodity and determining the purchasing information of the
   first pre-purchasing commodity when receiving a first purchasing request, and the
20 first purchasing notification being used for prompting a distribution personnel to
   distribute commodity according to the purchasing information of the first
   pre-purchasing commodity;
         wherein the commodity providing module comprises:
         a positioning unit configured to position the user device and acquire a
25 device position of the user device; and
         a providing unit configured to search a commodity position of any
   commodity in the shopping place and determine a commodity closest to the
   device position; and provide commodity information of the commodity closest to
   the device position to the user device.
                                              45

        20. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the commodity providing
   module comprises:
        a receiving unit configured to receive code scanning information sent by the
   user device, the code scanning information being acquired by the user device
 5 through scanning an information code corresponding to any commodity in the
   shopping place; and
        a sending unit configured to search commodity information of different
   commodities    and code scanning       information thereof, acquire commodity
   information matched with the code scanning information and send the commodity
10 information to the user device.
        21. The apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising:
        a second transaction triggering module configured to generate a second
   purchasing notification when receiving purchasing information of a second
   pre-purchasing commodity sent by the user device, the purchasing information of
15 the second pre-purchasing commodity being sent by the user device after
   determining the second pre-purchasing commodity in a pre-purchasing list when
   receiving a second purchasing request; and the second purchasing notification
   being used for prompting the distribution personnel to distribute commodity
   according   to   the purchasing    information   of the second    pre-purchasing
20 commodity.
                                            46

                                    1/8
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                               Fig. 1
              Product Information

                                    2/8
<removed-date>
              Product information
                           Add into
                                              Buy directly              Cancel
                           shopping cart
                                                    Purchase directly
                                   Original Vodka wine (sky) imported
                                                   Purchase directly
<removed-apn>
                                               from USA
                                             vodka cocktail
                                Price
                                Promoti                      Preference
                                on price                     premium for
                                                             autumn
                       Origin:               USA
                       Brand:                SKYY
                       Alcoholic content:    40%vol
                       Net content:          750ml
                       Materials:            water, naked barley and edible
                                             alcohol
                       Expiration date:      long-term
                       Storage conditions:   constant temperature and
                                             humidity, and protected from
                                             illumination and vibration
                       Manufacturer:         SKYY SPIRTS LLC
                       Bar code:             7210599007504
                             Fig. 2a

                                                                3/8
<removed-date>
                                            Confirm order
                Commodity pick-up/ delivery time                      Today (day/month/year) 19:00
                Commodity pick-up address                          Please select commodity delivery
                                                                                           address
<removed-apn>
                Coupon                                                                Not available
                Order remarks
                Live fish needing to be butchered; cut meat into pieces; please tell us your special
                requirements above fresh good
                Commodities in total?
                Price list
                Total commodity price
                Freight
                Coupon
                Total commodity price
              Total                                                                  Submit order
                                                          Fig. 2b

                                                               4/8
<removed-date>
                                             Confirm order
                   Commodity pick-up/ delivery time                      Today (day/month/year) 19:00
                   Commodity pick-up address                          Please select commodity delivery
                                                                                              address
<removed-apn>
                   Coupon
                                                                                         Not available
                   Order remarks
                   Live fish needi                    Payment list
                   requirements
                                       Your order has been confirmed, please pay
                                       within 24h, or your order will be cancelled.
                                                Unionpay
                  Commodities i
                                                Alipay
                  Price list
                                                WeChat
                   Total commodity
                                           Confirm to pay            Cancel
                   Freight
                   Coupon
                   Total commodity price
                                                                                      Submit order
                  Total
                                                           Fig. 2c
              5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    5/8
Fig. 3

                                                     6/8
<removed-date>
                                           Shopping cart
              Import from histories   Please input key words for searching
                   Click all                         Total                   Go to pay
<removed-apn>
                                                 Fig. 4

                                             7/8
<removed-date>
                                                           501
                                                           502
<removed-apn>
                                                           503
                                        Fig. 5
                                   Commodity                     501
                                acquisition module
                                       502                              504
                  First purchasing
                                                    Recording module
                       module
                                       503                              505
                   First transaction               Second purchasing
                  triggering module                     module
                                                                        506
                                                   Second transaction
                                                   triggering module
                                        Fig. 6
              5

                                         8/8
<removed-date>
                                                       701
<removed-apn>
                                                      702
                                       Fig. 7
                                 Commodity               701
                              providing module
                                       702                        703
                   First transaction         Second transaction
                  generating module          generating module
              5
                                       Fig. 8

