                                            ABSTRACT
          A computer-implemented method including accessing an order history that, for each
of one or more past orders, indicates (i) one or more order details associated with the order,
and (ii) a fulfillment outcome associated with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome
is selected from among multiple pre-defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more
intended order fulfillment outcomes and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, selecting one or
more particular past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment
outcome, for each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
generating, using the one or more order details associated with the one or more particular
past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as
training data, a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order
details associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, receiving one or more order details
associated with a subsequently received order, for each of the predictive models, providing
the one or more order details as input to the predictive model, in response to providing the
one or more order details as input to the predictive model, receiving, from each of the
predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details will be associated with the
particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, determining, for each indication of the
likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a threshold, for likelihoods that satisfy the
threshold, determining a remedial action that, when implemented, adjusts the likelihood to
not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the remedial action includes selecting actions
from a group of predetermined actions stored in an actions database, applying the selected
actions to the one or more given order details associated with the subsequently received
order to create revised order details, and providing the revised order details as input to the
predictive model to determine whether the remedial action determined based on the revised
order details, when implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold,
providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action, and preventing an order associated
with the one or more order details associated with the subsequently received order from
processing until execution of the remedial action.

                          -0>                      L4o          0
                  0)
                              N0                  cN           a
                                 N                                                   0 C,4
                                                                                0
                                        -7           >~Cl
                                                                >~>
>-0
_                                                        (N )                   0
        a)                             >a)CD
                    N- nEF                                  "(   -I-
    LE5    0N             CN       mcn                 a)       U0
                                   N-               C>          U
                                           =             CD
                          77          cu             CD        2
                                              0         a~
            a   E                    a)C)                 LOL            CDCDC
           .=a)-                    -0:a     (D-.                          0       =
                       73U                                 ne        I   >   0~
                                                                                      CD4
                                                                               nn
                                                          Cl) coI                 U
           CU                       Nnn                                I U
                                                          00/))

                                               1
           PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 20 October 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     This application generally relates to predictive modeling.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     Predictive modeling is a process used in predictive analytics to create a statistical
model of future behavior. Predictive analytics is the area of data mining concerned with
forecasting probabilities and trends.

                                                 2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]      Entities may apply predictive models to future orders to identify orders that are
likely to end in an unintended fulfillment outcome.         Once an entity has identified an
unintended fulfillment outcome, the entity may adjust the order to reduce the risk of an
unintended fulfillment outcome. The adjustment may be selected from a group of pre
determined remedial actions that are intended to decrease the likelihood of particular
unintended fulfillment outcomes. The adjustment may take place at any phase of the order,
and may range from splitting an order into smaller orders to automatically notifying the
purchaser of an outstanding invoice.
[0005]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method
including accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders, indicates (i)
one or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome associated
with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among multiple pre
defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order fulfillment outcomes
and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes, for each of one or more particular
unintended order fulfillment outcomes, selecting one or more particular past orders that are
associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, for each of the one or
more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, generating, using the one or more
order details associated with the one or more particular past orders that are associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as training data, a predictive model that
is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order details associated with a given
order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with the particular unintended order
fulfillment outcome, receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently
received order, for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as
input to the predictive model, in response to providing the one or more order details as input
to the predictive model, receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the
one or more order details will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment
outcome, determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a
threshold, for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, determining a remedial action that, when
implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the

                                               3
remedial action includes selecting actions from a group of predetermined actions stored in
an actions database, applying the selected actions to the one or more given order details
associated with the subsequently received order to create revised order details, and
providing the revised order details as input to the predictive model to determine whether the
remedial action determined based on the revised order details, when implemented, will
adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, providing, for output, data indicating the
remedial action, and preventing an order associated with the one or more order details
associated with the subsequently received order from processing until execution of the
remedial action.
[0006]      Implementations of the invention can optionally include one or more of the
following features. The one or more order details include goods ordered, a quantity of each
good, a total value, and a purchaser. The predictive model is purchaser specific. The one
or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes include late payment, order dispute, and order
cancellation. The remedial action includes dividing an order, generating a target invoice
date, notifying a purchaser of an outstanding invoice, or applying a discount. The remedial
action is associated with an order receiving stage, a billing stage, or a collection stage.
[0007]      Other implementations of this aspect include corresponding systems, apparatus,
and computer programs recorded on computer storage devices, each configured to perform
the operations of the methods.
[0008]      Implementations of the invention can optionally include one or more of the
following features. The one or more intended order fulfillment outcomes may include a
timely, received payment.     The predictive model is generated using logistic regression,
support vector machine, random forest, multiple linear regression, and/or Bayes' theorem.
[0009]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a system including one or more
computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when
executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform
operations including accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders,
indicates (i) one or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome
associated with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among

                                                 4
multiple pre-defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order
fulfillment outcomes and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes, for each of one
or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, selecting one or more particular
past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, for
each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, generating, using
the one or more order details associated with the one or more particular past orders that are
associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as training data, a
predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order details
associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with the
particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, and receiving one or more order details
associated with a subsequently received order, for each of the predictive models, providing
the one or more order details as input to the predictive model, in response to providing the
one or more order details as input to the predictive model, receiving, from each of the
predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details will be associated with the
particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, determining, for each indication of the
likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a threshold, for likelihoods that satisfy the
threshold, determining a remedial action that, when implemented, adjusts the likelihood to
not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the remedial action includes selecting actions
from a group of predetermined actions stored in an actions database, applying the selected
actions to the one or more given order details associated with the subsequently received
order to create revised order details, and providing the revised order details as input to the
predictive model to determine whether the remedial action determined based on the revised
order details, when implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold,
providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action, and preventing an order associated
with the one or more order details associated with the subsequently received order from
processing until execution of the remedial action.
[0010]       In yet a further aspect, the present invention provided a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing software including instructions executable by one or more
computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to perform
operations including accessing, for each of one or more particular unintended order
fulfillment outcomes, a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more

                                                5
given order details associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be
associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, receiving one or more
order details associated with a subsequently received order, for each of the predictive
models, providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model in response
to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model, receiving, from
each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details will be
associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome, determining, for each
indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a threshold, for likelihoods that
satisfy the threshold, determining a remedial action that, when implemented, adjusts the
likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the remedial action includes
selecting actions from a group of predetermined actions stored in an actions database,
applying the selected actions to the one or more given order details associated with the
subsequently received order to create revised order details, and providing the revised order
details as input to the predictive model to determine whether the remedial action determined
based on the revised order details, when implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy
the threshold, providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action, and preventing an
order associated with the one or more order details associated with the subsequently
received order from processing until execution of the remedial action.
[0011]      Particular implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can
be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. A system may
identify orders that are likely not going to be fulfilled and collected and provide solutions to
increase the likelihood that the orders will be fulfilled and collected.
[0012]      The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this
specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other
features and aspects of the subject matter will become apparent from the description, the
drawings, and the claims.

                                             6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]     FIG. 1 illustrates an example system for processing and invoicing orders for
goods.
[0014]     FIG. 2 illustrates an example system for generating predictive models for
processing and invoicing orders for goods.
[0015]     FIGS. 3-6A illustrate example user interfaces for processing and invoicing orders
for goods.
[0016]     FIG. 7 illustrates an example process for processing and invoicing orders for
goods.
[0017]     FIG. 8 illustrates an example of a computing device and a mobile computing
device.
[0018]     Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like
elements.

                                                 7
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0019]      Entities such as businesses keep track of goods sold by entering orders into a
computer system and generate invoices based on the entered orders.            The companies
purchasing the goods receive and pay the invoices. Once the entities receive payments they
mark the invoice as paid and the order as complete.
[0020]      Whenever a company purchases goods from another company, many pieces
need to fall into place so that the company purchasing the goods receives the correct order
on time and the company selling goods receives payment on time. Sometimes the order
contains errors, purchasing companies dispute or cancel orders, or the purchasing company
settles the invoice after the due date. To avoid these problems, it would be helpful for a
seller to identify orders that are likely to cause problems and correct those problems before
processing the order.
[0021]      A seller may store previous order history that includes details related to
purchasers, goods sold, prices, delivery dates, and delivery locations. The order history also
includes details related to the outcome of the order such as whether the order included an
error, was cancelled, and was disputed. The details may also include the number of days
after the due date that the purchaser paid the invoice or whether purchaser paid the invoice
on time. Based on the order history, an order taking system may generate a predictive model
that may generate the likelihood of various fulfillment outcomes based on order details.
[0022]      The seller may apply the predictive models to future orders to identify orders that
are likely to end in an unintended fulfillment outcome.        Once seller has identified an
unintended fulfillment outcome, the seller may adjust the order to reduce the risk of an
unintended fulfillment outcome.       The adjustment may be selected from a group of pre
determined remedial actions that are intended to decrease the likelihood of particular
unintended fulfillment outcomes. The adjustment may take place at the ordering, billing, or
collection phase of the order and may range from splitting an order into smaller orders to
calling the purchaser of an outstanding invoice.
[0023]      FIG. 1 illustrates an example system 100 for processing and invoicing orders for
goods. Briefly, and as described in further detail below, the system 100 assists users at the

                                                 8
ordering stage, billing stage, and/or the collection stage to ensure that situations that typically
lead to unintended fulfillment outcomes, such as cancelled orders or delayed payments are
less likely to occur. The system 100 suggests remedial actions that users may perform at
the ordering stage, billing stage, or collection stage to decrease the likelihood of unintended
fulfillment outcomes.
[0024]       In the example shown in FIG. 1, the user 103 is operating the ordering system
106. The user 103 receives an order 109 from ABC Retailer for widgets. The order 109 is
for one million widgets, and at three dollars for each widget the total for the order 109 is three
million dollars. The user 103 inputs the order details into the user ordering interface 112 of
the ordering system 106. The ordering system 106 applies the predictive model 115 to the
order details to identify likelihoods that the order 109 will cause one or more unintended
order fulfillment outcomes. In some implementations, the system 100 includes a pre-sale
system 157. The pre-sale system 157 allows sales agents to input order details that the pre
sale system 157 can apply to the predictive model 115. The pre-sale system 157 may
operate similar to the ordering system 106, billing system 127, and collection system 142
with respect to applying the predictive model 115. As discussed below with respect to FIG.
6A, the pre-sale system 157 may provide recommendations to the sales agent when the
sales agent is negotiating an order to reduce the likelihood of unintended fulfillment
outcomes.
[0025]       The system 100 generates the predictive model 115 by processing previous
orders and each order's corresponding fulfillment outcome. The system 100 applies various
statistical techniques that will be discussed in detail below to identify patterns in the previous
orders to be able to predict a likelihood that a particular fulfillment outcome will occur given
the details of a particular order. The order details may be related to the identity of the
purchaser, the type of purchaser, the goods purchased, the total value, the location of the
purchaser, the delivery location of the goods, the purchase date, the delivery date, or other
similar order details.
[0026]       Based on the ordering system 106 applying the predictive model to the order 109,
the ordering system 106 identifies an elevated likelihood that the purchaser will dispute the
order because the total value of order 109 is three million dollars. The ordering system 106

                                                   9
determines that the risk of the purchaser disputing the order 109 reaches an acceptable
threshold if the order 109 is split into multiple orders each with a value below two million
dollars. In the example shown in FIG. 1, the ordering system 106 provides, to the user 103
through the user ordering interface 112, an order prediction 118 that indicates the purchaser
typically disputes orders over 2 million dollars.           The ordering system 106 provides
instructions 121 to the user 103 to split the order 109 into smaller orders that each have a
total value less than two million dollars. In some implementations, the ordering system 106
requires the user 103 implement the instructions 121 before the user 103 can submit the
order for processing. The user 103 splits the order 109 into multiple orders 124, each with
a value of 1.5 million dollars, which is less than the two million dollar threshold.
[0027]       Once the user 103 enters the order 109 into the ordering system 106, the system
100 transmits the order 109 to the billing system 127. The user 130 interacts with the billing
system through the billing user interface 133. The user 130 generates invoices for the orders
and sends the invoices to each purchaser. Similar to the ordering system 106, the billing
system 127 applies the predictive model 115 to the order 109. In some implementations,
the billing system 127 applies a different predictive model than the predictive model applied
by the ordering system 106. For example, the ordering system 106 applies a predictive
model to identify likelihoods that order related details lead to one or more particular
unintended order fulfillment outcomes. The billing system 127 applies a predictive model to
identify likelihoods that billing related details lead to one or more particular unintended order
fulfillment outcomes. In some implementations, the ordering system 106 and billing system
127 may apply the same predictive model.
[0028]       In the example shown in FIG. 1, the billing system 127 applies the predictive
model 115 and determines an increased likelihood that the purchaser will pay the invoices
late for order 109 if the invoices are sent less than fourteen days before the desired pay date.
The billing system 127 provides prediction 136 to the user 130 through the billing user
interface 133. To reduce the likelihood of late payment by the purchaser, the billing system
127 provides instructions 139 to the user 130 to send the invoices twenty-one days before
the desired pay date. Similar to the ordering system 106, the billing system 127 may require
that the user 130 execute the instructions 139.

                                              10
[0029]      Once the user 130 processes the order 109 in the billing system 127, the system
100 transmits the order 109 to the collection system 142. The user 145 interacts with the
collection system through the collection user interface 148.         The user 145 may be
responsible for ensuring that invoices sent by the billing system 127 are collected before the
due date. The billing system 127 may apply the predictive model 115 to identify potential
unintended order fulfillment outcomes and based on the likelihoods of the unintended order
fulfillment outcomes identify potential remedial actions.
[0030]       In the example shown in FIG. 1, the collection system 142 determines that the
invoices sent by the billing system 127 to the purchaser are seven days away from being
due. Using the predictive model, the collection system 142 identifies an increased likelihood
that the purchaser will pay late since fourteen days have passed since the purchaser
received the invoices. The collection system 142 provides this information 151 to the user
145 through the collection user interface 148. The collection system 142 also identifies a
remedial action 154 that instructs the user 145 to call the purchaser to remind the purchaser
of the outstanding invoices. In some implementations, the collection 142 may require that
user 145 to confirm that the user 145 has performed the remedial action 154.
[0031]       In some implementations, the system 100 applies the predictive model 115 only
to the ordering system 106 and not to the billing system 127 or the collection system 142.
The user operating the ordering system 106 may receive instructions from the ordering
system 106 that are to be executed during the billing and collection stages. In this instance,
the user may enter the instructions and during the billing and collection stages, the user
operating the billing system 127 or the collection system 142 views the instructions and
performs the remedial action. In instances where the remedial action is performed by the
user operating the ordering system 106, the ordering system 106 may reapply the predictive
model 115 after the user performs the remedial action. For example, the ordering system
106 may reapply the predictive model 115 after user 103 performs the remedial action 124.
[0032]       In some implementations, the system 100 applies the predictive model 115 to the
order 109 by applying multiple predictive models. The order in which the system 100 applies
the multiple predictive models may be different for different purchasers. For example, with
ABC Retailer, the system 100 may apply a predictive model to determine the likelihood of a

                                                 11
cancelled order and then apply a predictive model to determine the likelihood of an order
dispute.    In some implementations, after applying the predictive model to determine the
likelihood of a cancelled order, the system 100 may provide remedial actions for the user to
perform and then apply the predictive model to determine the likelihood of an order dispute.
As another example, with DEF Retailer, the system 100 may apply the predictive model to
determine the likelihood of an order dispute and then apply the predictive model to determine
the likelihood of a cancelled order.        In some implementations, the system 100 may
simultaneously apply multiple predictive models to the order 109, provide remedial actions
for the user to perform, then reapply the predictive models. In some implementations, the
order in which the system 100 applies the multiple predictive models may be different based
on the order details. For example, if the total price of the order is greater than one million
dollars, the system 100 may apply a predictive model to determine the likelihood of a
cancelled order and then apply a predictive model to determine the likelihood of an order
dispute. After applying the predictive model to determine the likelihood of a cancelled order,
the system 100 may provide remedial actions for the user to perform and then apply the
predictive model to determine the likelihood of an order dispute. In some implementations,
the system 100 may apply particular predictive models based on the order details. For
example, the system may only apply a predictive model to determine the likelihood of a
cancelled order if the delivery location is in a particular region.
[0033]       FIG. 2 illustrates an example system 200 for generating predictive models for
processing and invoicing orders for goods. Briefly, and as described in further detail below,
the system 200 access previous order data and uses that data as training data to generate
a predictive model. The ordering, billing, and collections systems use the predictive models
to calculate likelihoods of unintended fulfillment outcomes and identify remedial actions to
decrease the likelihoods of unintended fulfillment outcomes to satisfy a threshold.
[0034]       The system stores previous order history data in the order history storage 203.
The order history storage 203 includes, for each previous order, order details 206 and
fulfillment outcomes 209. The order details 206 may include data identifying the purchaser,
the goods sold, the quantity of the goods sold, the total value, the date of sale, the date of
delivery, the location of the purchaser, the location of delivery, and other similar order details.

                                                12
The fulfillment outcomes 209 may be split into unintended outcomes such as order
cancellation, errors in the order, problems with the turnaround time, order holding, payment
dispute, late payment, high orderfrequency relative to billing cycle times, order contingencies
or provisions, or other similar outcomes. The other fulfillment outcome 209 is the intended
outcome where the order is processed, goods are delivered, and payment is received as
requested by the seller and purchaser.
[0035]       The order history storage 203 provides the order history data to the predictive
model generator for use as training data.        The predictive model generator 212 applies
statistical techniques to order history data to generate a model that computes a likelihood of
various unintended fulfillment outcomes.        The predictive model may also generate a
likelihood of an intended fulfillment outcome.      The statistical techniques include logistic
regression, support vector machine, random forest, multiple linear regression, neural
networks, and Bayes' theorem.        The predictive model may be specific for a particular
purchaser, group of purchasers, a particular region where a purchaser may be located, or a
particular region where the goods are to be delivered. The system 200 stores the predictive
models in the customer specific model storage 215. In implementations, where the predictive
models are not customer specific, the customer specific model storage 215 may be a
predictive model storage.
[0036]       As an example, a predictive model for ABC Retailer may receive order details
indicating that ABC Retailer would like to purchase one million widgets for delivery in three
months to ABC Retailer's warehouse in New York City. The cost of each widget is three
dollars. The predictive model generates, based on those order details, that the probability
of an order cancellation is eight percent; the probability of the order containing an error either
by ABC Retailer, the seller, or both; the probability the order being placed on hold is twenty
percent; the probability of an order dispute is eighty-eight percent; and the probability of late
payment is ninety-two percent.
[0037]       In some implementations, the predictive model generator 212 may require a
certain amount of training data before generating a predictive model.          For example, the
predictive model generator 212 may require thirty days or two years of order details for a

                                               13
particular customer or purchaser. As another example, the predictive model generator 212
may require fifty orders for a particular customer.
[0038]      The system 200 provides a customer specific predictive model to the ordering
system 218, the billing system 221, and the collection system 224. The ordering system
218, the billing system 221, and the collection system 224 apply the predictive model at
various stages of the order processing process to identify actions that a user can take to
reduce the chances of an unintended fulfillment outcome.
[0039]      The ordering system 218 includes a prediction processor 227. The prediction
processor 227 receives the order details that are inputted by the user taking the order and
applies a predictive model to generate the likelihoods for unintended fulfillment outcomes. In
some implementations, the predictive models may be based on order details received from
a specific seller. For example, XYZ seller may have order details for orders from several
purchasers. The predictive model generator 212 generates a predictive model based on the
order details from XYZ's orders. This predictive model may be provided to the prediction
processor 227.
[0040]      The prediction processor 227 provides the likelihoods for unintended fulfillment
outcomes to the action identifier 230. The action identifier 230 identifies actions that the user
taking the order may perform to reduce the likelihoods for unintended fulfillment outcomes.
The action identifier 230 accesses the action database 233 that includes the prediction
thresholds 236. The prediction thresholds 236 stores the thresholds that the likelihood for
an unintended fulfillment outcome should satisfy before the action identifier will identify a
remedial action to decrease the likelihood. The prediction thresholds 236 may be provided
by the seller or may be set at a default threshold. For example, XYZ seller may set the
prediction thresholds such that the probability of any unintended fulfillment outcome should
not be less than eighty percent. The prediction thresholds provided by XYZ seller may also
be specific to a particular unintended fulfillment outcome.     For example, XYZ seller may
require that the probability of a cancelled order be less than fifty percent and the probability
of an order including errors be less than eight percent.

                                                14
[0041]      The action identifier 230 identifies actions from the action database 233 and
applies them to the order details. The prediction processor 227 may then reapply the
predictive model to the revised order details to determine whether the new likelihoods for an
unintended fulfillment outcomes satisfy the prediction thresholds. For the actions that do
decrease likelihoods below a corresponding prediction threshold, the action identifier 230
may instruct the user to perform the remedial action. In some implementations, the action
identifier 230 may instruct the user to perform a remedial action that reduces a likelihood for
an unintended fulfillment outcome even if the remedial action does not reduce the likelihood
below the corresponding threshold.
[0042]      The actions stored in the action database 233 include remedial actions that user
of the ordering system 218 may perform during the order taking process. The actions may
be provided by the selling company or may be a collection of default actions provided by the
system 200. The actions may include inputting instructions for users to perform later in the
order processing steps. For example, the action may include inputting an instruction for the
user of the collection system 224 to call the purchaser if the invoice is less than seven days
from coming due. The action may be to split an order to reduce the total value of each order.
In some implementations, performing a remedial action may notify a selling agent who was
responsible for the order. For example, a selling agent may have been responsible for selling
one million widgets to ABC Retailer. When the user of the ordering system 218 splits the
order into two orders, the ordering system 218 may provide a notification to the selling agent
that the user is splitting the order. The selling agent may then use that information in future
sales to ensure that unintended fulfillment outcomes may be less likely to occur.
[0043]      The billing system 221 includes a prediction processor 239, action identifier 242,
action database 245, and prediction thresholds 248. The billing system 221 receives order
details from the ordering system 218 after the user of the ordering system has performed the
remedial actions identified by the action identifier 230. The prediction processor 239, action
identifier 242, action database 245, and prediction thresholds 248 operate in a similar
manner to the corresponding prediction processor 227, action identifier 230, action database
233, and prediction thresholds 236 of the ordering system 218. The prediction processor
239 applies a predictive model received from the customer specific model storage 215 to the

                                               15
order details received from the ordering system 218.            The prediction processor 239
determines likelihoods of unintended fulfillment outcomes based on the received order
details. The prediction processor 239 provides those likelihoods to the action identifier 242
that accesses the actions in the action database 245 and compares the likelihoods to the
prediction thresholds 248 to identify the remedial actions to instruct the user operating the
billing system 221 to perform. As an example, a remedial action may be to send a pro-forma
invoice to the purchaser a week before the actual bill is sent out.
[0044]      The collection system 224 includes a prediction processor 251, action identifier
254, action database 257, and prediction thresholds 260.           The collection system 224
receives order details from the billing system 221 after the user of the billing system 221 has
performed the remedial actions identified by the action identifier 242.           The prediction
processor 251, action identifier 254, action database 257, and prediction thresholds 260
operate in a similar manner to the corresponding prediction processors 227 and 239, action
identifiers 230 and 242, action databases 233 and 245, and prediction thresholds 236 and
248 of the ordering system 218 and billing system 221. The prediction processor 251 applies
a predictive model received from the customer specific model storage 215 to the order details
received from the billing system 221. The prediction processor 251 determines likelihoods
of unintended fulfillment outcomes based on the received order details. The prediction
processor 251 provides those likelihoods to the action identifier 254 that accesses the
actions in the action database 257 and compares the likelihoods to the prediction thresholds
260 to identify the remedial actions to instruct the user operating the collection system 224
to perform. As an example, a remedial action may be to communicate with the sales agent
to give the sales agent a status of the order so the sales agent can work with the customer
to ensure timely payment.
[0045]       In some implementations, only the action identifier 230 of the ordering system 218
identifies remedial actions. The action identifier 230 may identifier remedial actions to be
performed by the billing system 221 and the collection system 224.          In this instance, the
action database 233 may include remedial actions that are also stored in the action database
245 and the action database 257 and that are performed at the billing and collection stages.
The user operating the ordering system 218 may be responsible for entering instructions for

                                               16
the remedial actions to be performed later during the billing and collection stages.
Alternatively, the ordering system 218 may save the remedial actions to be performed later
during the billing and collection stages and present the remedial actions during the billing
and collection stages.
[0046]      FIG. 3 illustrates an example user interface 300 for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. The user interface 300 is an interface of an ordering system 106 or 218
from FIGS. 1 or 2. A user inputting an order from a purchaser inputs the order details into
the user interface 300 for processing by the system.
[0047]      The user interface 300 includes a total value field 305, purchaser field 310, and
delivery field 315 where the user can enter order details. The total value field 305 displays
the total value for the order as computing by the ordering system. The purchaser field 310
displays the company or entity is purchasing the goods. The delivery field 315 displays the
company or entity that will receive delivery of the goods. The user interface 300 includes a
delivery date field 320 where the user can enter the requested delivery date. The user
interface 300 includes a payment terms field 325 where the user can enter the payment
terms requested by the purchaser.        Alternatively, the payment terms field 325 may be
populated by the system with payment terms that the purchaser has already agreed to for
other purchases.
[0048]      The user interface 300 includes the item field 330 where the user enters the items
ordered by the purchaser.        The item field 330 includes sections for the item number,
description, quantity, and various other details. Once the user inputting the order has
entered all the order details, the user selects the evaluate order button 335. Selecting the
evaluate order button 335 causes the system to apply a predictive model to identify
likelihoods of unintended fulfillment outcomes.
[0049]      FIG. 4 illustrates an example user interface 400 for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. The user interface 400 is an interface of an ordering system 106 or 218
from FIGS. 1 or 2. Once the user has selected the evaluate order button 335 from FIG. 3,
the system displays the details of the order evaluation in probability detail box 405 of user
interface 400.

                                               17
[0050]      The probability detail box 405 includes the likelihoods of unintended fulfillment
outcomes computed by the system. The probability detail box 405 includes instructions for
the user whether or not action is required.      For example, the probability detail box 405
indicates that the probability of the purchaser cancelling this order is eight percent. The
system compared eight percent to the threshold, and because eight percent was below the
threshold, the user inputting the order is not required to take a remedial action.         The
probability detail box 405 context information that displays the previous order history of the
purchaser as the details relate to each unintended fulfillment outcome.       For example, as
related to the order cancellation entry, the purchaser has cancelled twenty-four orders of a
value greater than two million in the past twelve months.
[0051]      The probability detail box 405 includes probabilities for other unintended
fulfillment outcomes such as errors in the order, problems with the turnaround time, order
holding, payment dispute, late payment, high order frequency relative to billing cycle times,
and order contingencies or provisions. Of the unintended fulfillment outcomes displayed in
the probability detail box, the payment dispute and late payment outcomes correspond to
probabilities that exceed a threshold and require that the user take action. The probability
detail box 405 includes an action button 410 that the user can select to begin the process of
performing an action to reduce the likelihood of the corresponding unintended fulfillment
outcome.
[0052]      FIG. 5 illustrates an example user interface 500 for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. The user interface 500 is an interface of an ordering system 106 or 218
from FIGS. 1 or 2. Once the user has selected the action button 410 from FIG. 4, the system
displays the required actions in action information box 505.
[0053]      The action information box 505 includes a list of required actions to be performed
by one or more users during the order processing, billing, and collection stages. Action 510
instructs the user to divide the order into smaller orders each with a value of less than two
million dollars. Action 510 indicates that the user should perform the action during the order
processing stage. Action 515 instructs the user to send a pro-forma invoice eight days before
the user sends the actual invoice to the purchaser. Action 515 should be performed during
the order processing and billing stage. For example, the user processing the order may input

                                               18
the instruction for the user to read during the billing stage. The billing user then sends the
pro-forma invoice as instructed.
[0054]      The action 520 instructs the user to call the purchaser and request a promise to
pay date from the purchaser. Action 520 should be performed during the order processing
and collection stage. Action 520 also includes a date entry. The user may enter the date
that the user performed the action 520. The action 525 instructs the user to communicate
with the sales agent to help ensure timely payment of the invoice. Action 525 should be
performed during the order processing and collection stage. Similar to action 520, action
525 also includes a date entry where the user may enter the date that the user performed
the action 525. Both action 520 and 525 include comment fields where the user can enter
comments that other users may read during the process. For example, the user processing
the order may have left the comment "Get PTP date" for the user at the collection stage to
remind the collection user to call the customer to ask for a promise to pay date.
[0055]      As noted above, during the order processing stage, the user inputting the order
may receive remedial actions that are to be performed during the collection or billing stages.
In this instance, the user may receive the remedial action and input instructions for a user
during the collection or billing stage. For example, the user inputting the order may receive
remedial actions 515, 520, and 525 and input instructions for a user to perform the remedial
actions 515, 520, and 525 during either the collection or billing stage.
[0056]      FIG. 6 illustrates an example user interface 600 for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. The user interface 600 is an interface of billing system 127 or 221 from
FIGS. 1 or 2. The user interface 600 assists the user by listing orders that the user can
select for which to generate invoices.
[0057]      The user interface 600 includes a list of orders for which invoices should be sent.
The list of orders is received from the ordering system. The user interface 600 includes one
order 605. As shown in user interface 600, the order 605 has not been processes. The user
may select the order 605 and select the take action button 610. By selecting the take action
button 610, the user begins the process for generating and sending an invoice for the
selected order. The billing system displays the action window 615 when the user selects the

                                               19
take action button 610.       The action window 615 displays actions that the system has
identified to reduce the likelihood of unintended fulfillment outcomes. For example, action
620 includes instructions for the user to send a pro-forma invoice eight days before sending
the actual invoice. The action 620 includes a date for the user to enter when the action is
performed or a target date for when the action should be performed.             Once the user
completes the action 620, the user may check the action taken box.
[0058]       FIG. 6A illustrates an example user interface 600a for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. The user interface 600a is an interface of a pre-sale system 157 from FIG.
1. The user interface 600a assists a selling agent by providing insight into potential problems
that may arise during the ordering process. The selling agent provides potential order details
to the pre-sale system and the pre-sale system applies the predictive model to identify the
potential problems.
[0059]       The user interface 600a represents an order simulation based on the order details
inputted by the sales agent. The sales agent inputs a client name 603a, geographic area
606a, order type 609a, price range 612a, and credit terms 615a. The client name 603a may
be selected from the seller's previous clients. The selectable clients may only be the ones
that the system has collected sufficient previous orders from which to generate a predictive
model. The geographic area 606a may correspond to the delivery location for the goods or
the location of the client. The credit terms 615a may correspond to the payment method of
the client such as payment required in thirty days or ninety days.
[0060]       Based on the details entered by the sales agent, the user interface 600a displays
the likelihoods of various unintended fulfillment outcomes. The days sales outstanding bar
618a indicates that the average days that an invoice is outstanding for the client ABC Retailer
is fifty-nine as shown with the average indicator 633a. Using the order details entered by
the sales agent, the predicted number of days is forty as shown with the prediction bar 636a.
The prediction bar 636a may be color coded blue, as represented by a forward slash pattern,
to distinguish the prediction bar 636a from the other portions of the days sales outstanding
bar 618a. The days sales outstanding bar 618a may be color coded so that the sales agent
can quickly view whether the order details place the prediction in a desired range. In user
interface 600a, different background patterns may represent different colors. Region 639a

                                                 20
may be green to indicate the target region as represented by a backward slash pattern.
Region 642a may be colored yellow, as also represented by a forward slash pattern, to
indicate that the days outstanding is not in the target region, but also not in the unintended
region. Region 645a may be red, as represented by a crosshatch pattern, to indicate the
days outstanding should not be in that region. The regions may be set by the seller. For
example, a seller may be comfortable with the days sales outstanding of less than ninety
and not allow sales with days sales outstanding of greater than one hundred twenty.
[0061]      The probability of order cancellation bar 621a indicates the probability of a
cancelled order 648a based on the inputted order details as two percent. The average
cancellation probability is thirty eight percent as indicated by the average indicator 651a.
Unlike the days sales outstanding bar 618a, the cancellation bar 621a includes a region 654a
that may be colored grey as represented by a wide-spaced backward slash pattern. This
region 654a may indicate that the system did not receive any data for probabilities in this
region 654a. Region 657a may be red to indicate that probabilities in that region should be
avoided by the sales agent.
[0062]      The probability of late payment bar 624a, the probability of dispute 627a, and the
probability of provisioning bar 630a includes similar features to the days sales outstanding
bar 618a and probability of order cancellation bar 621a. Portions of each bar with similar
patterns may indicate targets or regions to avoid.         In some implementations, the user
interface 600a may provide the sales agent with recommendations to avoid the unintended
regions such as regions 645a and 657a. For example, a sales agent may enter an order
total of twenty million dollars. By applying the predictive model, the system determines the
probability of a twenty million dollar order being cancelled is seventy five percent. The system
may determine that order totals of between thirty and forty million dollars and ten and fifteen
million dollars have cancellation probabilities of less than twenty percent. The system may
recommend that the sales agent negotiation for an order total in that range.
[0063]      Regarding payment plans, the system may determine that the client selected in
the client name 603a does not pay on time. The system may have financial details related
to this client such as the company not having substantial cash deposits. The system may
recommend the sales agent negotiate a short credit term and possible late payment penalties

                                                21
to encourage timely payment. The system may provide the sales agent insight into previous
discounts provided to the client. For example, the system may indicate that no discounts
have been extended to the client. In this instance, the system may recommend extending a
discount to the client only if the client promises to pay within thirty days. The system may
provide a recommendation to avoid order disputes. In this instance, the probability of an
order dispute is one percent. The system may recommend that the sales agent receive
confirmation for the order with the goal of eliminating the possibility of a dispute. In some
implementations, the system may also provide the sales agent with how the order affects the
financial details of the selling company.      For example, the system may indicate that a
possible order entered by the sales agent will increase the selling company's profits by one
hundred thousand dollars. The system may recommend adjustments to the order to increase
the selling company's profits.
[0064]       FIG. 7 is a flow chart of an example process 700 for processing and invoicing
orders for goods. In general, the process 700 provides actions for users to perform to reduce
a likelihood of a goods order end up at an unintended fulfillment outcome. The process 700
will be described as being performed by a computer system including one or more
computers, for example, the systems 100 or 200 as shown in FIGS. 1 or 2.
[0065]       The system accesses an order history that, for each of one or more past orders,
indicates (i) one or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome
associated with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among
multiple pre-defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order
fulfillment outcomes and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes (710). In some
implementations, the one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes includes order
cancellation, errors in the order, problems with the turnaround time, order holding, payment
dispute, late payment, high order frequency relative to billing cycle times, order contingencies
or provisions, or other similar outcomes. In some implementations, the one or more intended
order fulfillment outcomes includes the goods being delivered on time and payment being
received on time.
[0066]       The system, for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment
outcomes, selects one or more particular past orders that are associated with the particular

                                                22
unintended order fulfillment outcome (720). For example, the system selects all the orders
that had invoices that were paid late or that were cancelled. The system, for each of the one
or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, generates, using the one or more
order details associated with the one or more particular past orders that are associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as training data, a predictive model that
is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order details associated with a given
order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with the particular unintended order
fulfillment outcome (730). The system generates the predictive model based on statistical
techniques such as logistic regression, support vector machine, random forest, multiple
linear regression, neural networks, and Bayes' theorem.          In some implementations, the
predictive model is specific to a purchaser.
[0067]       The reason that some of the orders end with an unintended order fulfillment
outcome varies. There may have been a disagreement in price between the seller and the
buyer. The sales agent may have made a verbal promise that is not reflected in the invoice.
The user receiving the order may be unfamiliar with the order taking process or how to enter
an order into the system. The seller may not have the resources, parts, or capacity available
to process the order. The purchaser may have exhausted a credit limit. Some invoices that
are over a certain amount may need special authorization before the purchaser can pay.
The attempts to identify these problems and any other ones that may lead to an unintended
order fulfillment outcome.
[0068]       The system receives one or more order details associated with a subsequently
received order (730). The system, for each of the predictive models, provides the one or
more order details as input to the predictive model (740).         The system, in response to
providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model, receives, from each
of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details will be associated
with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome (750). In some implementations, the
likelihood is represented by a probability. The higher the probability, the better the chance
of the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome. For example, the chance of the order
being disputed may be ninety percent.

                                              23
[0069]      The system determines, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the
likelihood satisfies a threshold (760).    In some implementations, the seller selects the
thresholds based on the seller's goals and risk tolerance. For example, a seller may not
want the chance of an order being cancelled to be above fifty percent. The seller may have
a higher tolerance for an order being placed on hold, such as seventy-five percent.
[0070]      The system, for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, identifies a remedial action
that, when implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold (770). In some
implementations, the remedial action is dividing an order, generating a target invoice date,
notifying a purchaser of an outstanding invoice, or applying a discount. The system may
identify the remedial action from a group of remedial actions that the seller has identified.
The remedial action may be an action that the seller should take during the order taking
stage, the billing stage, or the collection phase.     The system provides, for output, data
indicating the remedial action (780). In some implementations, the system may require the
user to perform the remedial action before the user can proceed further with processing the
invoice.
[0071]      FIG. 8 shows an example of a computing device 800 and a mobile computing
device 850 that can be used to implement the techniques described here. The computing
device 800 is intended to represent various forms of digital computers, such as laptops,
desktops, workstations, personal digital assistants, servers, blade servers, mainframes, and
other appropriate computers. The mobile computing device 850 is intended to represent
various forms of mobile devices, such as personal digital assistants, cellular telephones,
smart-phones, and other similar computing devices. The components shown here, their
connections and relationships, and their functions, are meant to be examples only, and are
not meant to be limiting.
[0072]      The computing device 800 includes a processor 802, a memory 804, a storage
device 806, a high-speed interface 808 connecting to the memory 804 and multiple high
speed expansion ports 810, and a low-speed interface 812 connecting to a low-speed
expansion port 814 and the storage device 806. Each of the processor 802, the memory
804, the storage device 806, the high-speed interface 808, the high-speed expansion ports
810, and the low-speed interface 812, are interconnected using various busses, and may be

                                               24
mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor 802
can process instructions for execution within the computing device 800, including instructions
stored in the memory 804 or on the storage device 806 to display graphical information for a
GUI on an external input/output device, such as a display 816 coupled to the high-speed
interface 808. In other implementations, multiple processors and/or multiple buses may be
used, as appropriate, along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also, multiple
computing devices may be connected, with each device providing portions of the necessary
operations (e.g., as a server bank, a group of blade servers, or a multi-processor system).
[0073]      The memory 804 stores information within the computing device 800. In some
implementations, the memory 804 is a volatile memory unit or units.                  In some
implementations, the memory 804 is a non-volatile memory unit or units. The memory 804
may also be another form of computer-readable medium, such as a magnetic or optical disk.
[0074]      The storage device 806 is capable of providing mass storage for the computing
device 800. In some implementations, the storage device 806 may be or contain a computer
readable medium, such as a floppy disk device, a hard disk device, an optical disk device,
or a tape device, a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device, or an array of
devices, including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. Instructions
can be stored in an information carrier. The instructions, when executed by one or more
processing devices (for example, processor 802), perform one or more methods, such as
those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage devices
such as computer- or machine-readable mediums (for example, the memory 804, the storage
device 806, or memory on the processor 802).
[0075]      The high-speed interface 808 manages bandwidth-intensive operations for the
computing device 800, while the low-speed interface 812 manages lower bandwidth
intensive operations.     Such allocation of functions is an example only.           In some
implementations, the high-speed interface 808 is coupled to the memory 804, the display
816 (e.g., through a graphics processor or accelerator), and to the high-speed expansion
ports 810, which may accept various expansion cards (not shown). In the implementation,
the low-speed interface 812 is coupled to the storage device 806 and the low-speed
expansion port 814.      The low-speed expansion port 814, which may include various

                                              25
communication ports (e.g., USB, Bluetooth, Ethernet, wireless Ethernet) may be coupled to
one or more input/output devices, such as a keyboard, a pointing device, a scanner, or a
networking device such as a switch or router, e.g., through a network adapter.
[0076]      The computing device 800 may be implemented in a number of different forms,
as shown in the figure. For example, it may be implemented as a standard server 820, or
multiple times in a group of such servers. In addition, it may be implemented in a personal
computer such as a laptop computer 822. It may also be implemented as part of a rack
server system 824.     Alternatively, components from the computing device 800 may be
combined with other components in a mobile device (not shown), such as a mobile
computing device 850. Each of such devices may contain one or more of the computing
device 800 and the mobile computing device 850, and an entire system may be made up of
multiple computing devices communicating with each other.
[0077]      The mobile computing device 850 includes a processor 852, a memory 864, an
input/output device such as a display 854, a communication interface 866, and a transceiver
868, among other components. The mobile computing device 850 may also be provided
with a storage device, such as a micro-drive or other device, to provide additional storage.
Each of the processor 852, the memory 864, the display 854, the communication interface
866, and the transceiver 868, are interconnected using various buses, and several of the
components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as
appropriate.
[0078]      The processor 852 can execute instructions within the mobile computing device
850, including instructions stored in the memory 864.          The processor 852 may be
implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital
processors. The processor 852 may provide, for example, for coordination of the other
components of the mobile computing device 850, such as control of user interfaces,
applications run by the mobile computing device 850, and wireless communication by the
mobile computing device 850.
[0079]      The processor 852 may communicate with a user through a control interface 858
and a display interface 856 coupled to the display 854. The display 854 may be, for example,

                                                26
a TFT (Thin-Film-Transistor Liquid Crystal Display) display or an OLED (Organic Light
Emitting Diode) display, or other appropriate display technology. The display interface 856
may include appropriate circuitry for driving the display 854 to present graphical and other
information to a user. The control interface 858 may receive commands from a user and
convert them for submission to the processor 852. In addition, an external interface 862 may
provide communication with the processor 852, so as to enable near area communication of
the mobile computing device 850 with other devices. The external interface 862 may
provide, for example, for wired communication in some implementations, or for wireless
communication in other implementations, and multiple interfaces may also be used.
[0080]      The memory 864 stores information within the mobile computing device 850. The
memory 864 can be implemented as one or more of a computer-readable medium or media,
a volatile memory unit or units, or a non-volatile memory unit or units. An expansion memory
874 may also be provided and connected to the mobile computing device 850 through an
expansion interface 872, which may include, for example, a SIMM (Single In Line Memory
Module) card interface. The expansion memory 874 may provide extra storage space for
the mobile computing device 850, or may also store applications or other information for the
mobile computing device 850.         Specifically, the expansion memory 874 may include
instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above, and may include
secure information also. Thus, for example, the expansion memory 874 may be provide as
a security module for the mobile computing device 850, and may be programmed with
instructions that permit secure use of the mobile computing device 850. In addition, secure
applications may be provided via the SIMM cards, along with additional information, such as
placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non-hackable manner.
[0081]      The memory may include, for example, flash memory and/or NVRAM memory
(non-volatile random access memory), as discussed below.             In some implementations,
instructions are stored in an information carrier that the instructions, when executed by one
or more processing devices (for example, processor 852), perform one or more methods,
such as those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage
devices, such as one or more computer- or machine-readable mediums (for example, the
memory 864, the expansion memory 874, or memory on the processor 852).                In some

                                              27
implementations, the instructions can be received in a propagated signal, for example, over
the transceiver 868 or the external interface 862.
[0082]     The mobile computing device 850 may communicate wirelessly through the
communication interface 866, which may include digital signal processing circuitry where
necessary.    The communication interface 866 may provide for communications under
various modes or protocols, such as GSM voice calls (Global System for Mobile
communications), SMS (Short Message Service), EMS (Enhanced Messaging Service), or
MMS messaging (Multimedia Messaging Service), CDMA (code division multiple access),
TDMA (time division multiple access), PDC (Personal Digital Cellular), WCDMA (Wideband
Code Division Multiple Access), CDMA2000, or GPRS (General Packet Radio Service),
among others. Such communication may occur, for example, through the transceiver 868
using a radio-frequency. In addition, short-range communication may occur, such as using
a Bluetooth, WiFi, or other such transceiver (not shown).       In addition, a GPS (Global
Positioning System) receiver module 870 may provide additional navigation- and location
related wireless data to the mobile computing device 850, which may be used as appropriate
by applications running on the mobile computing device 850.
[0083]     The mobile computing device 850 may also communicate audibly using an audio
codec 860, which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital
information. The audio codec 860 may likewise generate audible sound for a user, such as
through a speaker, e.g., in a handset of the mobile computing device 850. Such sound may
include sound from voice telephone calls, may include recorded sound (e.g., voice
messages, music files, etc.) and may also include sound generated by applications operating
on the mobile computing device 850.
[0084]     The mobile computing device 850 may be implemented in a number of different
forms, as shown in the figure. For example, it may be implemented as a cellular telephone
880. It may also be implemented as part of a smart-phone 582, personal digital assistant,
or other similar mobile device.
[0085]     Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be
realized in digital electronic circuitry, integrated circuitry, specially designed ASICs

                                                 28
(application specific integrated circuits), computer hardware, firmware, software, and/or
combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or
more computer programs that are executable and/or interpretable on a programmable
system including at least one programmable processor, which may be special or general
purpose, coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to transmit data and instructions
to, a storage system, at least one input device, and at least one output device.
[0086]       These computer programs (also known as programs, software, software
applications or code) include machine instructions for a programmable processor, and can
be implemented in a high-level procedural and/or object-oriented programming language,
and/or in assembly/machine language.            As used herein, the terms machine-readable
medium and computer-readable medium refer to any computer program product, apparatus
and/or device (e.g., magnetic discs, optical disks, memory, Programmable Logic Devices
(PLDs)) used to provide machine instructions and/or data to a programmable processor,
including a machine-readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine
readable signal. The term machine-readable signal refers to any signal used to provide
machine instructions and/or data to a programmable processor.
[0087]       To provide for interaction with a user, the systems and techniques described here
can be implemented on a computer having a display device (e.g., a CRT (cathode ray tube)
or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor) for displaying information to the user and a keyboard
and a pointing device (e.g., a mouse or a trackball) by which the user can provide input to
the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as
well; for example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback (e.g.,
visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback); and input from the user can be
received in any form, including acoustic, speech, or tactile input.
[0088]       The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing
system that includes a back end component (e.g., as a data server), or that includes a
middleware component (e.g., an application server), or that includes a front end component
(e.g., a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a
user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here), or
any combination of such back end, middleware, or front end components. The components

                                               29
of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication
(e.g., a communication network). Examples of communication networks include a local area
network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), and the Internet.
[0089]     The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are
generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network.
The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the
respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each other.
[0090]     Although a few implementations have been described in detail above, other
modifications are possible. For example, while a client application is described as accessing
the delegate(s), in other implementations the delegate(s) may be employed by other
applications implemented by one or more processors, such as an application executing on
one or more servers. In addition, the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the
particular order shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results. In addition, other
actions may be provided, or actions may be eliminated, from the described flows, and other
components may be added to, or removed from, the described systems. Accordingly, other
implementations are within the scope of the following claims.
[0091]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0092]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                 30
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A computer-implemented method including:
        accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders, indicates (i) one
or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome associated with
the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among multiple pre-defined
order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order fulfillment outcomes and
one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes;
        for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, selecting
one or more particular past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order
fulfillment outcome;
        for each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
generating, using the one or more order details associated with the one or more particular
past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as
training data, a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order
details associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently received order;
        for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as input to
the predictive model;
        in response to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model,
receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details
will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a
threshold;
        for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, determining a remedial action that, when
implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the
remedial action includes:
                selecting actions from a group of predetermined actions stored in an actions
        database, applying the selected actions to the one or more given order details
        associated with the subsequently received order to create revised order details; and

                                                31
               providing the revised order details as input to the predictive model to determine
       whether the remedial action determined based on the revised order details, when
       implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold;
               providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action; and
               preventing an order associated with the one or more order details associated
with the subsequently received order from processing until execution of the remedial action.
2.     A method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more order details include goods
ordered, a quantity of each good, a total value, and a purchaser.
3.     A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the predictive model is
purchaser specific.
4.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more
unintended order fulfillment outcomes include late payment, order dispute, and order
cancellation.
5.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the remedial action
includes dividing an order, generating a target invoice date, notifying a purchaser of an
outstanding invoice, or applying a discount.
6.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the remedial action
is associated with an order receiving stage, a billing stage, or a collection stage.
7.     A system including:
       one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are
operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more
computers to perform operations including:
              accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders, indicates
       (i) one or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome
       associated with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from

                                         32
among multiple pre-defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended
order fulfillment outcomes and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes;
        for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
selecting one or more particular past orders that are associated with the particular
unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        for each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
generating, using the one or more order details associated with the one or more
particular past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order
fulfillment outcome as training data, a predictive model that is trained to estimate,
based on one or more given order details associated with a given order, a likelihood
that the given order will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment
outcome; and
        receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently received
order;
        for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as
input to the predictive model;
        in response to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive
model, receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more
order details will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment
outcome;
        determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood
satisfies a threshold;
        for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, determining a remedial action that,
when implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, wherein
determining the remedial action includes:
                selecting actions from a group of predetermined actions stored in an
        actions database, applying the selected actions to the one or more given order
        details associated with the subsequently received order to create revised order
        details; and

                                                 33
                       providing the revised order details as input to the predictive model to
               determine whether the remedial action determined based on the revised order
               details, when implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold;
                       providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action; and
                       preventing an order associated with the one or more order details
               associated with the subsequently received order from processing until
               execution of the remedial action.
8.     A system according to claim 7, wherein the one or more order details include goods
ordered, a quantity of each good, a total value, and a purchaser.
9.     A system according to either claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the predictive model is
purchaser specific.
10.    A system according to any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the one or more unintended
order fulfillment outcomes include late payment, order dispute, and order cancellation.
11.    A system according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the one or more intended
order fulfillment outcomes includes a timely, received payment.
12.    A system according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the predictive model is
generated using logistic regression, support vector machine, random forest, multiple linear
regression, Bayes' theorem.
13.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software including instructions
executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more
computers to perform operations including:
       accessing, for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order details
associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with the
particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;

                                                 34
        receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently received order;
        for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as input to
the predictive model;
        in response to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model,
receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details
will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a
threshold;
        for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, determining a remedial action that, when
implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold, wherein determining the
remedial action includes:
                selecting actions from a group of predetermined actions stored in an actions
        database, applying the selected actions to the one or more given order details
        associated with the subsequently received order to create revised order details; and
                providing the revised order details as input to the predictive model to determine
        whether the remedial action determined based on the revised order details, when
        implemented, will adjust the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold;
                providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action; and
                preventing an order associated with the one or more order details associated
with the subsequently received order from processing until execution of the remedial action.
14.     A medium according to claim 13, wherein the one or more order details include goods
ordered, a quantity of each good, a total value, and a purchaser.
15.     A medium according to either claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the predictive model is
purchaser specific.
16.     A medium according to any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the one or more
unintended order fulfillment outcomes include late payment, order dispute, and order
cancellation.

                                                 35
17.     A medium according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein the remedial action
includes dividing an order, generating a target invoice date, notifying a purchaser of an
outstanding invoice, or applying a discount.
18.     A medium according to any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein the remedial action is
associated with an order receiving stage, a billing stage, or a collection stage.
1a.     A computer-implemented method including:
        accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders, indicates (i) one
or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome associated with
the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among multiple pre-defined
order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order fulfillment outcomes and
one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes;
        for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes, selecting
one or more particular past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order
fulfillment outcome;
        for each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
generating, using the one or more order details associated with the one or more particular
past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as
training data, a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order
details associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently received order;
        for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as input to
the predictive model;
        in response to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model,
receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details
will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a
threshold;

                                                 36
        for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, identifying a remedial action that, when
implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold; and
        providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action.
2a.     A system including:
        one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are
operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more
computers to perform operations including:
                accessing an order history that, for each of one or more past orders, indicates
(i) one or more order details associated with the order, and (ii) a fulfillment outcome
associated with the order, wherein the order fulfillment outcome is selected from among
multiple pre-defined order fulfillment outcomes including one or more intended order
fulfillment outcomes and one or more unintended order fulfillment outcomes;
                for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
selecting one or more particular past orders that are associated with the particular
unintended order fulfillment outcome;
                for each of the one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
generating, using the one or more order details associated with the one or more particular
past orders that are associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome as
training data, a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order
details associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with
the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome; and
                using one or more of the predictive models to estimate a likelihood that a
subsequently received order will be associated with one or more of the unintended order
fulfillment outcomes.
3a.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software including instructions
executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more
computers to perform operations including:
        accessing, for each of one or more particular unintended order fulfillment outcomes,
a predictive model that is trained to estimate, based on one or more given order details

                                                 37
associated with a given order, a likelihood that the given order will be associated with the
particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        receiving one or more order details associated with a subsequently received order;
        for each of the predictive models, providing the one or more order details as input to
the predictive model;
        in response to providing the one or more order details as input to the predictive model,
receiving, from each of the predictive models, a likelihood that the one or more order details
will be associated with the particular unintended order fulfillment outcome;
        determining, for each indication of the likelihood, whether the likelihood satisfies a
threshold;
        for likelihoods that satisfy the threshold, identifying a remedial action that, when
implemented, adjusts the likelihood to not satisfy the threshold; and
        providing, for output, data indicating the remedial action.

                                             <removed-apn>        <removed-date>             100
                                                  115
       157
                           106                   127                            142
109
                                                                                                           Page 1 of 9
                                        136                         151
                                                                                        PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
            118
                     121                                ABC Retailers invoices                    1/9
                                                          are due in 7 days
                                                                                                 Accenture Global Services Limited
             124                                         Call ABC Retailer to
                                                           remind them of
                                                         outstanding invoices                             12587-0543001
                                                139
                                                                                 154
                                       133
                                                                             148
      103                        130                                 145
                   112

                                                                                      <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                                                                                                            200
                                                                                                             215
                                          203
                                                                        212
              Order History
                                          206
              Order Details                           Predictive                       Customer Specific
                                                    Model Generator                     Model Storage
       Fulfillment Outcomes
                    209                                                                                                                              Page 2 of 9
                                                                                                                                  PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
 218                                              221                                    224
                                                                                                                                             2/9
    Ordering System           227                    Billing System       239                  Collection System      251
                                                                                                                                           Accenture Global Services Limited
    Prediction Processor                            Prediction Processor                       Prediction Processor
             230                                         242                                       254
                                                                                                                                                    12587-0543001
                      Action                                         Action                                  Action
                     Database                                       Database                                Database
 Action                                          Action                                  Action
Identifier          Prediction                  Identifier         Prediction           Identifier          Prediction
                    Thresholds                                     Thresholds                               Thresholds
             233                                             245
                                    236                                         248                  257              260
                                                               FIG. 2

                                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              300
    Sales document     Edit Goto     Extras      Environment       System   Help
 Create Standard Oder: Overview                                                            335
                                   Orders     Additional Fields          Evaluate Order         Document
Standard Order                            Net value                    3.000.000,00 EUR                       305
Sold-To Party    202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York                             310
Ship-To Party    202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York                           315
PO Number                                 PO Date
    Sales   Item overview    Item detail      Ordering party      Procurement   Shipping      Reason for rejection
                                                   320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 3 of 9
  Req. Deliv.date D 31.08.2015         Deliver.Plant
     Complete dlv.                     Total Weight                                4.200 KG
  Delivery block                       Volume                                      0,000
  Billing block                        Pricing date                24.08.2015
  Payment card                         Exp.date                                                                                                                                                           PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
  Card Verif.Code                                                     325
  Payment terms ZB0114 Days 3%, 30/2...Incoterms                   CIF Berlin                                                                                                                                     3/9
  Order reason
  All items
    Item Material           Order Quality Un Description        S               Customer Material Numb               ItCa DGIP HL Itm D First date Pint Batch   CnTy Amou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Accenture Global Services Limited
                                                                                                                                                                                       330
        10 E-1002                        2 PC Aufzug Model 1002                                                      TAO              D 31.08.2015 1300         TR00    1
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015                                                                          12587-0543001
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                      D 31.08.2015
                                                                   Group
                                                                                                             XYZ                                                            SAPMV45A     MB55AP1007 INS
                                                                                                         FIG. 3

                                                                                                                                         <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         400
    Sales document     Edit Goto     Extras      Environment       System   Help
 Create Standard Oder: Overview
                                   Orders     Additional Fields         Evaluate Order          Document
Standard Order                            Net value                    3.000.000,00 EUR
Sold-To Party    202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York
Ship-To Party    202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York
PO Number                                 PO Date
                                              Ordering party                      Shipping    Reason for rejection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 4 of 9
    Sales   Item overview    Item detail                          Procurement
 Req. Deliv.date D 31.08.2015                Deliver.Plant                                                                                                                    405
    Complete dlv.                            Total Weight                          4.200 KG
 Delivery block                              Volume                                0,000
 Billing block     Probability Details                                                                                                                                                               PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
 Payment card
 Card Verif.CodeOutcome                                    Probability          Action Required         Take Action     Client context
 Payment terms Probability of order cancellation           8%                   NO                                    IN THE LAST 12 MONTHS OUT OF 24 ORDERS OF VALUE > $ 2M THE CLIENT HAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4/9
 Order reason Probability of errors                        12%                  NO                                    DISPUTES 21 ORDERS. ALL THESE 21 ORDERS WERE COLLECTED LATE. IN CASE
                 Probability of missing TAT                14%                  NO                                    OF THESE CASES THE CLIENT DISPUTED THE INVOICE 3 DAYS BEFORE THE                        Accenture Global Services Limited
  All items High order to bill cycle time                  11%                  NO                             410    DUE DATE
   Item Material Order hold probability                    17%                  NO
         10 E-1002
                 Chance of late payments                   92%                  YES
                 Probability of disputes                   88%                  YES
                 Probability of provisions                 10%                  NO                                                                                                                                     12587-0543001
                                                                                                                                 D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                 D 31.08.2015
                                                                   Group
                                                                                                             XYZ                                                      XYZMV45A      MB55AP1007 INS
                                                                                                          FIG. 4

                                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>                                <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                500
          Sales document      Edit Goto     Extras      Environment       System   Help
       Create Standard Oder: Overview
                                          Orders     Additional Fields         Evaluate Order       Document
      Standard Order                             Net value                    3.000.000,00 EUR
      Sold-To Party     202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York
      Ship-To Party     202           ABC Retailer, Inc. / baker street/ D-16852 Ney York
      PO Number                                  PO Date
          Sales    Item overview    Item detail      Ordering party      Procurement   Shipping   Reason for rejection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page 5 of 9
        Req. Deliv.date D 31.08.2015               Deliver.Plant                                                                                                                     505
           Complete dlv.                           Total Weight             4.200 KG
        Delivery block
                   Action Information
        Billing block                              Pricing date  24.08.2015
510     Payment cardAction Required                Exp.date                                             Order Processor Billing Collection Comment field                            Date (DDMMYYYY)                   PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
        Card Verif.Code
                   1) ORDER PROCESSOR TO PART INVOICE THE ORDER AND ENSURE THAT
                   terms ZB01
        Payment INVOICE    VALUE
                               14 <Days
                                    $ 2M3%, 30/2...Incoterms     CIF Berlin
515     Order reason                                                                                                                                                                                                             5/9
                   2) INSTRUCTION TO BILLING AGENT TO SEND PRO-FORMA INVOICE 8 DAYS
520               BEFORE ACTUAL BILLING
        All items
               3) INSTRUCTION TO COLLECTION AGENT TO CALL UP CUSTOMER AND GET                                                               Get PTP Date                            24082015
                                                                       CustomerMaterial
                                                                    S Customer           Numb
                                                                                MaterialNumb                                         First date Plnt Batch    CnTy Amou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Accenture Global Services Limited
                 Material TO PAYOrder Quality Un Description
          Item PROMISE
525           10 E-1002                                  Model 1002
                                             2 PC Aufzug Modell
                4) INSTRUCTION TO COLLECTION AGENT TO PROACTIVELY INVOLVE SALES                                                           Proactively communicate with sales lead   24082015
                LEAD GIVING HIM CLIENT CONTEXT AND HISTORICAL PRECEDENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12587-0543001
                                                                                                                                   D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                   D 31.08.2015
                                                                                                                                   D 31.08.2015
                                                                          Group
                                                                                                                 XYZ                                                          XYZMV45A         MB55AP1007 INS
                                                                                                              FIG. 5

                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                   600
       Sales document     Edit Goto        Extras   Environment      System   Help
               Create Billing Document                                                                                    610
                        Billing due List             Billing document overview                              Take Action
      Default Data
      Billing Type                                                        Serv.rendered
      Billing Date                                                        Pricing Date
        All items                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 6 of 9
605        Document                Item         SD document categ.                                Processing status                  Billi
                                                                                                                                                   615
          14452                                Order                                              Not Processed
                                                                                   Action Information
                                                                                                                                                                                         PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
                                                                                 Comment field                                   Date (DDMMYYYY)   Action Taken
                                                        620
                                                                                 SEND PRO FORMA INVOICE 8 DAYS PRIOR             24082015
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6/9
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Accenture Global Services Limited
                                                                                                                                                                                                           12587-0543001
                                                                     Group
                                                                                                         XYZ                                          XYZMV45A    MB55AP1007 INS
                                                                                                     FIG. 6

                                                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>                          <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             600a
                        Financial Highlights                    Business Summary                                                            Simulation                                    Recommendations
                                         603a                                  606a                            Simulation               609a                                612a                                     615a
        Client Name                                 Geo Area                                      Type of Order                                          $ Range                                  Credit Terms
        ABC Retailer, Inc.                          EMEA                                           Standard                                               35000 to 50000                          30 NET
                                                                       642a                Days Sales Outstanding Comparison
618a           Days Sales
                                                               40.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 7 of 9
        Outstanding (DSO)                                                       Avg of DSO: 59.00
                           0        10   20         30     40          50      60         70        80         90         100         110         120     130     140        150    160    170       180      190      200     210
                               636a                   639a                                     633a                     645a
                                                                                                   Cancellation Comparison
621a        Probability of
                                2.00%                                                                    Avg of Cancellation: 38.00%
        Order cancellation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
                          0%        5%   10%        15%        20%      25%      30%        35%          40%        45%         50%         55%         60%     65%        70%     75%    80%      85%       90%      95%     100%
                   648a                        654a                                    651a                                                   657a
                                                                                                  Late Payments Comparison                                                                                                                           7/9
         Probability of late
624a             payment                      10%                                                                                                                                                 Avg of Late Payment: 82%                    Accenture Global Services Limited
                          0%        5%   10%        15%        20%      25%      30%        35%          40%        45%         50%         55%         60%     65%        70%     75%    80%      85%       90%      95%     100%
                                                                                                         Dispute Comparison
             Probability of
 627a            Dispute       1%                                             Avg of Dispute: 23%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12587-0543001
                          0%        5%   10%        15%   20%          25%    30%         35%     40%          45%        50%         55%     60%         65%     70%       75%     80%    85%      90%       95%     100%    105%
                                                                                                    Provisioning Comparison
630a         Probability of
              provisioning                                                          29%                                                                                                    Avg of Late Provisioning: 79%
                          0%        5%   10%        15%        20%      25%      30%        35%          40%        45%         50%         55%         60%     65%        70%     75%    80%      85%       90%      95%     100%
                                                                                                               FIG. 6A

                                         Page 8 of 9
                      PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
                                           8/9
                               Accenture Global Services Limited
                                        12587-0543001
<removed-date>
                                                                                   700
                            Access order history
                                                                    710
                Select past orders for unintended fulfillment
                                                                          720
<removed-apn>
                                 outcome
                         Generate predictive model                        730
                            Receive order details
                                                                          740
              Input the order details into the predictive model             750
              Receive a likelihood of the unintended fulfillment
                                  outcome                                       760
                  Determine likelihood satisfies threshold                        770
                          Identify remedial action                                780
                  Provide, for output, the remedial action                        790
                                FIG. 7

                                                                    <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
  816
             800
                         808                                  806                       820
                                     804            812
    802
  810
                                                                                                                        Page 9 of 9
                                                                                                     PREDICTIVE MODELING FOR UNINTENDED OUTCOMES
                                                    814                          824
                                                                                                                   9/9
                                                                                              880
                                                              870
                                                                                                              Accenture Global Services Limited
                                            872         866
                                      874                            868
         `
                                                                                                                       12587-0543001
                               864
                                                                                       882
                                                               860
                                                  852                      854
                   850                                       858
                                            862
                                                          856
FIG. 8

