  ABSTRACT
  Materials, such as biomass feedstocks (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal
  waste biomass) are processed to produce useful products, such as fuels. Conveying systems,
  such as flowing gas conveying systems and such as closed-loop flowing gas conveying systems
5 are described.      Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today, including
  agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/case and seaweed, to name a
  few.

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
                         PROCESSING MATERIALS
                         CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
              This application claims priority from the following provisional applications:
  5  USSN 61/774,684, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,773, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,731, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,735, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,740, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,744, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,746, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,750, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,752, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,754, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
 10  61/774,775, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,780, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,761, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,723, filed March 8, 2013; and USSN
     61/793,336, filed March 15, 2013. The full disclosure of each of these provisional
     applications is incorporated by reference herein.
 15                                       BACKGROUND
              Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today, including
     agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes and seaweed, to
     name a few. At present, these materials are often under-utilized, being used, for
 20  example, as animal feed, biocompost materials, burned in a co-generation facility or even
     landfilled.
              Lignocellulosic biomass includes crystalline cellulose fibrils embedded in a
     hemicellulose matrix, surrounded by lignin. This produces a compact matrix that is
     difficult to access by enzymes and other chemical, biochemical and/or biological
 25  processes. Cellulosic biomass materials (e.g., biomass material from which the lignin
     has been removed) is more accessible to enzymes and other conversion processes, but
     even so, naturally-occurring cellulosic materials often have low yields (relative to
     theoretical yields) when contacted with hydrolyzing enzymes. Lignocellulosic biomass
     is even more recalcitrant to enzyme attack. Furthermore, each type of lignocellulosic
 30  biomass has its own specific composition of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
                                                   1

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
                                                  SUMMARY
              Generally, the inventions relate to equipment, systems and methods for
  5  processing materials, such as biomass. Many processes are disclosed herein for
     saccharifying or liquefying a biomass material, e.g., cellulosic, lignocellulosic and/or
     starchy feedstocks, by converting biomass material to low molecular weight sugars, e.g.,
     saccharifying the feedstock using an enzyme, e.g., one or more cellulase and/or amylase.
     The invention also relates to converting a feedstock to a product, e.g., by bioprocessing,
 10  such as fermentation. The processes include novel methods of conveying and cooling
     biomass feedstocks used in the above processes and other related processes.
              Inventions also feature equipment, systems and methods of treating materials,
     e.g., biomass, with radiation, and methods and equipment for conveying the material
     before, during, and after treatment. In some cases the material is treated with multiple
 15  passes of radiation and the methods and equipment disclosed herein are used to convey
     the material between passes or treatment units.
              In one aspect, the invention features methods of reducing the recalcitrance of a
     biomass material that include conveying treated biomass materials out of a radiation
     zone utilizing a recirculating gas flow.
 20           In another aspect, the invention features methods of reducing the recalcitrance of
     a biomass material that include metering treated biomass materials, e.g., using an air
     lock, such as a rotary valve, into a recirculating gas flow.
              In one aspect, the invention relates to a method of conveying a material, such as a
     biomass material (e.g., a cellulosic, lignocellulosic or hydrocarbon containing material).
 25  The method can include providing recirculating gas flow (e.g., a recirculating gas flow in
     an enclosed loop), delivering a material through an ingress into the recirculating gas flow
     and removing the material at an egress from the recirculating gas flow. For example, the
     material is conveyed by the recirculating gas flow in the recirculating loop between the
     ingress and the egress. A portion of the gas flow can pass through a radiation field
 30  having an intensity above background levels. For example, the ingress can be positioned
     in the radiation field having an intensity above background levels, and the egress can be
     positioned in an area having a radiation field substantially the same as background
     levels. For example, the radiation field can be created by Bremsstrahlung X-rays. The
     method can include delivering any process gas that may be present along with the
 35  material to the recirculating gas flow. For example, process gases that may have been
                                                     2

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     produced while processing the material, e.g., prior to it being conveyed by the
     recirculating gas loop conveyor, can enter the gas flow with the material through the
     ingress. Some examples of process gas can include gases selected from the group
     consisting of volatile organic compounds (VOC), hazardous air pollutants (HAP), ozone
  5  and mixtures of these.
              In some implementations of the methods, at least a portion of gas, e.g., at least
     10%, at least 50% or substantially 100%, from the recirculating gas flow passes through
     an air pollution control system. For example, the pollution control system can be in-line
     with the recirculating gas flow so that substantially all of the gas in the recirculating gas
 10  flow flows through the pollution control system (e.g., the pollution control system is in
     series with the recirculating gas flow). Alternatively, or in addition, a portion of the
     recirculating gas flow can be diverted through a pollution control system (e.g., the
     diverted gas can be in parallel with the gas flow so that it rejoins the gas flow, or it can
     be removed from the gas flow to the atmosphere). In some implementations, the
 15  pollution control system includes an ozone abatement system. In some implementations,
     the pollution control system includes a catalyst, for example a metal or metal oxide
     catalyst. In some implementations, the pollution control system includes activated
     carbon.
              In some implementations of the method using the recirculating gas flow, a gas
 20  (e.g., the entire gas in the gas flow or a portion of this gas) includes at least 75% of an
     inert gas (e.g., at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99%). In
     some implementations a gas in the recirculating flow (e.g., the entire gas in the gas flow
     or a portion of this gas) includes less than about 20% oxygen (e.g., less than about 15%,
     less than about 10%, less than about 5%, less than about 1%). For example, in some
 25  implementations, a gas in the recirculating gas flow (e.g., the entire gas in the gas flow or
     a portion of this gas) can include nitrogen, carbon dioxide and/or argon (e.g., more than
     80% N 2, CO 2 and/or Ar, more than 90% N 2, CO 2 and/or Ar, more than 95% N 2, CO 2
     and/or Ar, or more than 99% N 2, CO 2 and/or Ar).
              Alternatively, or in addition, the methods can include irradiation of the material,
 30  e.g., prior to, before or during it being conveyed by the recirculating flow. In some
     implementations, the irradiation is with ionizing radiation, such as electron beam
     irradiation.
              In some implementations, the methods include diverting a portion of a gas (e.g.,
     producing a second gas flow) that is in the recirculating gas flow, out of the recirculating
 35  loop. For example, the portion that is diverted out of the gas flow can be diverted
                                                     3

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     downstream from the ingress for the material. Optionally, dust (e.g., fine particles of the
     material), can be removed from the recirculating gas flow upstream from where the gas
     is diverted. For example, the dust can be removed from the gas flow that is diverted from
     the recirculating gas flow. An example of a method for removing dust particles includes
  5  using a dust bag.
              The methods can be used, for example, to convey particulate material. For
     example, the material can be a material that has been comminuted, e.g., so that it can be
     conveyed by the air flow. In some implementations, the materials have an average
     particle size between about 0.5mm and 10 mm. For example, having an average particle
 10  size above at least about 0.5mm (e.g., at least about 0.75mm, at least about 1.00mm) and
     below about 10mm (e.g., below about 6 mm, below about 3mm, below about 2mm). In
     some implementations, the materials that are conveyed include materials with a density
     of less than about 0.75 g/cm 3 (e.g., less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60, 0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20,
     0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or even less than 0.025 g/cm 3 ). In some other implementations, the
 15  materials can also or alternatively include a material that have been comminuted and has
     an aspect ratio of greater than 2.
              In another aspect, the invention is a system for conveying a material including a
     closed recirculating gas loop, a portion of which being disposed in a radiation field
     having an intensity level above background levels, and with an ingress into the loop for a
 20  material and an egress out of the loop for the material. For example, the system includes
     a material flow path disposed in the loop and between the ingress and egress. The ingress
     can be in fluid communication with delivery elements, the delivery elements comprise a
     system (e.g., a device) for delivering the material to the gas loop, for example a rotary
     valve that controls the flow of the material from outside of the gas loop to the interior of
 25  the gas loop. The delivery elements can be in fluid communication with an input
     conveyor, e.g., a conveyor that can convey a material such as a belt conveyor, a screw
     conveyor, a hopper, a pneumatic conveyor, a vibratory conveyor, a cooled conveyor or
     combinations of these. For, example, a vibratory conveyor can deliver a material,
     optionally to a hopper, and then to the delivery elements which then deliver the material
 30  to the closed gas loop through the ingress. Optionally, the egress is in fluid
     communication with an output-conveyor. For example the output-conveyor can be
     selected from the group consisting of a belt conveyor, a vibratory conveyor, a pneumatic
     conveyor, a screw conveyor, a cooling conveyor, a hopper or combinations of these
              In some implementations, the system includes elements designed for separating
 35  the material that is conveyed therein from the gas in the recirculating gas loop. For
                                                    4

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     example, the separating elements can include one are more bag houses. Optionally, the
     system can also include a pollution control system in fluid communication with the
     recirculating gas loop. For example, the pollution control system is in line with the
     recirculating gas loop. Alternatively, or additionally, the recirculating gas loop includes
  5  an outlet for diverting a portion of the gas flow therefrom and through the pollution
     control system.
             In some implementations, the system includes a gas (e.g., a portion of the gas in
     the gas loop or substantially all of the gas in the loop) in the recirculating gas loop that in
     composition is less than about 20% oxygen. The system can also include a material (e.g.,
 10  a hydrocarbon containing material, a cellulosic material and/or lignocellulosic material)
     in the recirculating gas loop between the ingress and the egress (e.g., when the system is
     in operation). For example, the system can be useful for conveying biomass material and
     has biomass material between the ingress and egress of the recirculating gas loop when
     the system is in operation.
 15          In some implementations, the material ingress for the system is located (e.g.,
     situated, disposed, placed, in fluid communication with the) inside a vault and the
     material egress is located (e.g., situated, disposed, placed, in fluid communication with
     the) outside or on the exterior of the vault. Optionally, the vault is constructed of
     radiation opaque materials.
 20          In another aspect, the invention includes a biomass conveying system, method or
     equipment. For example, the system can include a closed recirculating gas loop with a
     portion of the loop disposed inside a vault and a portion of the loop disposed outside of
     the vault. The system also includes a biomass ingress to the recirculating gas loop
     located inside the vault and a biomass egress out of the loop located outside of the vault.
 25  Optionally, the gas loop and vault form a substantially gas tight enclosure. Also
     optionally, the gas loop and vault form a radiation tight enclosure (e.g., X-ray, electron
     and photon tight). In some implementations, the atmosphere in the vault includes a gas
     with less than about 20% oxygen (e.g., less than about 15%, less than about 10%, less
     than about 5%, less than about 1%). For example, the atmosphere in the vault can be
 30  substantially nitrogen gas. The gas in the enclosed recirculating gas loop and the vault
     can be substantially the same. The vault can also include equipment for treating biomass
     such as equipment to reduce the recalcitrance of lignocellulosic material. For example,
     the vault can include one or more electron beam irradiation devices. The portion of the
     recirculating gas loop disposed inside the vault can be exposed to a radiation field that is
 35  higher than background level (e.g., higher than the radiation level outside of the vault).
                                                     5

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
              The methods and systems present an efficient and safe way to process materials
     (e.g., biomass). For example biomass that is treated to reduce its recalcitrance that can
     produce pollutants such as volatile organic compounds, hazardous atmospheric
     pollutants (HAP) and ozone. Ozone, for example, can be created by electron beam
  5  irradiation in air. Conveying the material can therefore release these pollutants to the
     environment. Some of the methods described herein mitigate or even obviate these
     concerns by removing the pollutants and/or reducing, or even eliminating, their creation.
     For example, the methods, systems and equipment can allow processing of materials in
     an inert environment, such as nitrogen.
 10           Implementations of the invention can optionally include one or more of the
     following summarized features. In some implementations, the selected features can be
     applied or utilized in any order while in other implementations a specific selected
     sequence is applied or utilized. Individual features can be applied or utilized more than
     once in any sequence and even continuously. In addition, an entire sequence, or a portion
 15  of a sequence, of applied or utilized features can be applied or utilized once, repeatedly
     or continuously in any order. In some optional implementations, the features can be
     applied or utilized with different, or where applicable the same, set or varied,
     quantitative or qualitative parameters as determined by a person skilled in the art. For
     example, parameters of the features such as size, individual dimensions (e.g., length,
 20  width, height), location of, degree (e.g., to what extent such as the degree of
     recalcitrance), duration, frequency of use, density, concentration, intensity and speed can
     be varied or set, where applicable as determined by a person of skill in the art.
              Features, for example, include: A method of conveying a material; reducing the
     recalcitrance of a biomass material; conveying treated biomass materials out of a
 25  radiation zone utilizing a recirculating gas flow; metering treated biomass materials
     using an air lock into a recirculating gas flow; metering treated biomass materials using a
     rotary valve into a recirculating gas flow; providing a recirculating gas flow at least a
     portion of which passing through a radiation field having an intensity above background
     levels; delivering a material through an ingress to a recirculating gas flow; removing the
 30  material at an egress to a recirculating gas flow; conveying material by a recirculating
     gas flow of a recirculating gas loop between an ingress to the flow and a egress to the
     flow; a recirculating gas flow that is enclosed; delivering process gasses along with a
     material through the ingress into a recirculating gas flow; delivering volatile organic
     compounds through an ingress into a recirculating gas flow; delivering hazardous air
 35  pollutants through an ingress into a recirculating gas flow; delivering ozone through the
                                                    6

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     ingress into a recirculating gas flow; sending at least a portion of gas from a recirculating
     gas flow through an air pollution control system; sending at least a portion of gas from a
     recirculating gas flow through an air pollution control system that is in line with a
     recirculating gas flow; sending at least a portion of a gas from a recirculating gas flow
  5  through an ozone abatement system; sending at least a portion of a gas from a
     recirculating gas loop through a metal oxide catalyst; sending at least a portion of a gas
     from a recirculating gas loop through activated carbon; a gas that includes at least 75%
     of an inert gas; a gas that includes at least 80% of an inert gas; a gas that includes at least
     90% of an inert gas; a gas that has less than about 20% oxygen; a gas that has less than
 10  about 10% oxygen; a gas that includes nitrogen; treating a material with ionizing
     radiation; treating a material with an electron beam; diverting a portion of a gas in a
     recirculating gas flow out of the recirculating flow; diverting a portion of a gas in a
     recirculating gas flow out of the recirculating flow downstream from a ingress for a
     material; removing dust from a recirculating gas; removing dust from a recirculating gas
 15  or a portion of the recirculating gas at any position e.g., upstream, downstream or in
     parallel with any component in fluid communication with the recirculating gas; a
     material that is a biomass material; a material that is a lignocellulosic material; a material
     that has a density of less than 0.75 g/cm3 ; the material has a density of less than 0.7
     g/cm 3 ; a material that has a density of less than 0.6 g/cm3 ; a material that has a density of
 20  less than 0.6 g/cm 3 ; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size of
     at least 0.5mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size of at
     least 0.75mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size of at
     least 1.00mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size below
     about 10mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size below
 25  about 6mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size below
     about 3mm; a material that has been comminuted and has a mean particle size below
     about 2mm; a material that has been comminuted and has an aspect ratio of greater than
     2; a radiation field that is created by Bremsstrahlung X-rays.
              Some other features, for example, include: A system for conveying a material; a
 30  closed recirculating gas loop with an ingress for a material and an egress for the material,
     at least a portion of which being disposed in a radiation field having an intensity level
     above background level; a material flow path in a closed recirculating gas loop, the flow
     path disposed between an ingress for a material and an egress for the material; an ingress
     is in fluid communication to delivery elements for delivering a material to a recirculating
 35  gas loop; delivery elements for a conveying system (e.g., a recirculating gas loop) that
                                                      7

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     comprise a rotary valve; a delivery element for a conveying system (e.g., including a
     recirculating gas loop) that in fluid communication with an input-conveyor; an input
     conveyor that is a vibratory conveyor; an egress that includes elements for separating a
     conveyed material from a gas in the recirculating gas loop; elements for separating a
  5  material from a gas that includes a bag house; an egress to a recirculating gas loop that is
     in fluid communication with an output-conveyor; an egress to a recirculating gas loop
     that is in fluid communication with a belt conveyor; an egress to a recirculating gas loop
     that is in fluid communication with a vibratory conveyor; an egress to a recirculating gas
     loop that is in fluid communication with a pneumatic conveyor; an egress to a
 10  recirculating gas loop that is in fluid communication with a screw conveyor; an egress to
     a recirculating gas loop that is in fluid communication with a cooling conveyor; a
     pollution control system in fluid communication with the recirculating gas loop; a
     pollution control system in fluid communication with the recirculating gas loop in line
     with the recirculating gas loop; a recirculating gas loop that includes an outlet for
 15  diverting a portion of a gas in the gas loop t and through a pollution control system; a gas
     in a recirculating gas loop that comprises less than about 20% oxygen; a material ingress
     into a recirculating gas loop that is situated in a vault and a material egress to the loop
     that is situated on the exterior of the vault; a vault that is constructed of radiation opaque
     materials; a vault that is constructed with low porosity materials; utilizing a vault
 20  constructed of low porosity concrete; utilizing a vault with walls constructed of low
     porosity bricks; a biomass in a recirculating gas loop between the ingress and the egress
     to the loop.
              Other features, for example, include: A biomass conveying system; a closed
     recirculating gas loop with a portion of the loop disposed inside a vault; a closed
 25  recirculating gas loop with a portion of the loop disposed outside of a vault; a biomass
     ingress into a recirculating gas loop located inside a vault and an egress for the biomass
     located outside of the vault; a gas loop and vault that form a substantially gas tight
     enclosure; a gas loop and vault that form a radiation tight enclosure; an atmosphere
     within a vault comprising a gas with less than about 20% oxygen; a gas in a recirculating
 30  gas loop comprising a gas with less than about 20% oxygen; a portion of a recirculating
     gas loop disposed inside a vault that is exposed to a radiation field that is higher than
     background level.
              Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
     following detailed description, and from the claims.
 35
                                                     8

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
                                DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              FIG. 1A is a perspective view of a vault showing the flow of biomass.
              FIG. 1B is a detailed right side view of components of a recirculating loop inside
  5  a vault.
              FIG. 1C is a detailed perspective cutout view of the rotary valve and feeding bin
     shown in FIG. 1B.
              FIG. 2 is a detailed left side view of components of the recirculating air loop.
              FIG. 3A is a perspective view of a vault including a recirculating air loop.
 10           FIG. 3B is a side view of the vault and storage units including a recirculating air
     loop.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 15           Using the methods described herein; materials, e.g., biomass (e.g., plant biomass,
     animal biomass, paper, and municipal waste biomass) can be processed to produce useful
     intermediates and products such as organic acids, salts of organic acids, anhydrides,
     esters of organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion engines or feedstocks
     for fuel cells. Many methods disclosed herein involve saccharification of biomass to
 20  produce sugars, and in some cases fermentation of the resulting sugars to form other
     products and/or intermediates. These steps, and other steps involved in converting
     biomass to useful products and intermediates, often include pretreatment of the biomass,
     e.g., with radiation or other treatments that raise the temperature of the biomass and thus
     require multi-stage treatment to avoid overheating the biomass. The systems described
 25  herein allow the biomass to be conveyed to and from pretreatment, and back and forth
     between multiple treatment steps, without releasing hazardous process gases or
     particulate, e.g., ozone, volatile organic compounds, and carbon containing fine
     particulates to the atmosphere or deleteriously affecting the biomass.
              These conveying systems, e.g., vacuum or pneumatic conveying systems will be
 30  described in the context of a vaulted system, e.g., as would be used with certain radiation
     pretreatment equipment, e.g., electron beam irradiating devices. By being closed loop in
     design, these systems prevent gases, e.g., ozone rich air and volatile organic compounds
     (VOCs), which can be harmful to breathe, from leaking out of the work cell where
     irradiation takes place. The closed loop also prevents or controls the release of carbon
 35  containing particles, e.g., biomass fines or soot, that can also be hazardous, e.g.,
                                                     9

WO 2014/138550                                                                 PCT/US2014/021632
     explosive or respiratory hazards. Moreover, in terms of work and energy, these systems
     provide a highly efficient way of transporting material in and out of the work cell.
     Finally, in preferred implementations the systems have no 'daylight' openings that would
     allow radiation to escape.
  5           Examples of conveying systems, e.g., vacuum and pneumatic conveying systems,
     are shown in the figures.
              FIG. 1A is a perspective view of a vault containing a conveying system and a
     pretreatment work cell. Some of the vault walls and the vault ceiling has been omitted to
     show the interior equipment layout. Generally, the shown vault is photo-tight to protect
 10  workers and/or the environment exterior to the vault from Bremsstrahlung X-rays and
     intense light produced by electrons striking material, e.g., metals, in the vault. In some
     instances, the vault is configured to be air-tight so as to prevent the escape of toxic
     process gasses e.g., VOCs, Ozone, NOx. In other instances, the interior of the vault is
     maintained at a lower pressure than region exterior of the vault to prevent toxic process
 15  gases from being released from the vault. Exhaust system 155 can exhaust process gasses
     out of the vault and can, for example, be adjusted to maintain a negative pressure in the
     vault relative to the pressure outside of the vault. The general flow of biomass in the
     vault is indicated with solid arrows. Biomass is fed to a first enclosed conveyor 110 by a
     pipe 120, configured to prevent clogging by biomass e.g., having a diameter of at least 6
 20  inches, at least 7 inches, at least 8 inches, at least 10 inches, at least 12 inches. The
     conveying surface of the conveyor 110 can have a bias cut (e.g., indicated by a dotted
     line on conveyor 110 in FIG. 1A) at an end distal to the pipe 120, such that that the
     conveying surface ends with the bias cut. Therefore, the conveyor 110, with the bias cut,
     is configured to dump (e.g., pore or distribute) biomass to a second enclosed conveyor
 25  130, generally configured perpendicular to first conveyor 110. The second conveyor 130
     conveys the biomass under the scan horn 140 of an electron beam device where it can be
     irradiated through an electron-transparent foil window with little energy loss. The
     biomass is then sent to a hopper (not fully visible in the figure) disposed under the
     second conveyor. The hopper feeds the biomass to section 150 of a recirculating air loop
 30  through a rotating valve (not visible in this figure but shown in FIGs 1B and IC). The
     air in section 150 of the recirculating air loop then conveys the material up and out of the
     vault in the direction of air flow. Return air, shown by dotted lines, enters the vault and
     is brought under the rotary valve by section 151 of the recirculating air loop. Any ozone,
     VOCs and lofted particulates enter the closed loop and can be removed from the air prior
 35  to it being sent back to the vault as will be discussed with reference to the following
                                                     10

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     figures. In addition or alternatively, an inert gas such as nitrogen, carbon dioxide, argon
     and mixtures of these in any concentration or proportion can be used instead of air.
     Biomass and gases (e.g., air in the loop) that is sent out of the vault through 150 can be
     processed by utilizing external equipment/systems of the loop 157 such as solid
  5  separators (e.g., bag filters), heat exchangers, pollution control systems and pumps. The
     air/gases, substantially stripped of solids, can then be returned to the loop e.g., section
     151. Details of some of these external systems will be described with reference to FIG. 2.
             In order to control the atmosphere in the vault, e.g., to ensure an air tight structure
     and/or to contain process gases and/or ensure the pressure in the vault is maintained at
 10  lower pressure than the atmosphere outside the vault, the vaults can be constructed of
     low porosity materials. For example, the porosity of the walls can be reduced by infusion
     of materials into the construction blocks. For example, concrete with lower permeability
     can generally be achieved by substituting between 25 to 65 percent slag cement for
     Portland cement. Finely-divided solids (e.g., lime, silicates and colloidal silica) added to
 15  the cement when the blocks are made can reduce permeability to water and gases by
     increasing the density or by filling up voids. Some crystalline admixtures react with
     water and cement particles in the concrete to form calcium silicate hydrates and/or pore
     blocking precipitates in the existing microcracks and capillaries. The resulting crystalline
     deposits, which are analogous to calcium silicate hydrate formation, become integrally
 20  bound with the hydrated pastes. Porosity reducing additives can also include
     hydrophobic water-repellent chemicals based on soaps and long-chain fatty acids
     derivatives, vegetable oils (tallows, soya-based materials, and greases), and petroleum
     (mineral oil, paraffin waxes, and bitumen emulsions). These materials are more useful
     for providing a water repellency layer on the material and would be more usefully
 25  applied to the exterior portions of the vault to aid in decreasing interior vault humidity,
     which can exacerbate corrosion in the vault. In addition, to improve the life of the
     structures, the interior surfaces (e.g., of concrete blocks) can be coated or covered with a
     corrosion resistant material, such as stainless steel.
             FIG. 1B is a detailed right side view showing a portion of the recirculating air
 30  loop where the return air, the direction of flow of which is shown by dotted arrows, is
     charged with biomass material 100. Biomass is delivered into the recirculating air loop
     through a funnel 160 into a feeding bin 170, and flows in the direction indicated by the
     solid arrows. A rotary valve system 180 under the feeding bin 170 then feeds the
     biomass to the recirculating air loop. Only as small amount of air from the vault is
 35  metered into the flowing air path 151-152, so that system 180 acts like a toxic gas air
                                                    11

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     lock. As discussed above, the air in section 150 of the recirculating air loop then carries
     the biomass out of the vault. When the loop is in operation, air flow is about 300 ft3/min
     (e.g., between about 50 to 1000 ft3/min, between about 50 to 800 ft3/min, between about
     50 to 500 ft3/min, between about 100 to 400 ft3/min, between about 300 to 500 ft3/min,
  5  between about 150 to 350 ft3/min, between about 300 to 600 ft3/min).
              The rotary valve system 180 is enclosed in an enclosure 190. The enclosure can
     be made of or include radiation opaque materials (e.g., lead or lead lining) and can be
     purged (e.g., the interior of the enclosure) with an inert gas or high flow of air to ensure
     the components are protected from radiation and ozone.
 10           FIG. 1C is a detailed perspective cutout view of the rotary valve 180 and feeding
     bin 170. A motor 182 is coupled to shaft 184 through a pulley (e.g., a belt or chain) 186
     that couples the drive shaft of the motor 182 with the wheel 188. Alternatively, shaft 184
     can be coupled to the motor 182 by a direct drive or gear motor. Through these
     couplings, when the motor is engaged the shaft and attached paddles (e.g., paddle 189)
 15  rotate in the direction indicated by the arrow. The valve delivers (e.g., meters) portions
     of biomass 100 to the section 150 of the recirculating air loop, which acts as an air
     conveyor for the biomass, while keeping air from the recirculating air loop from entering
     the feeding bin. Such a system also reduces any potential process gases (e.g., toxic gases)
     from entering from the vault through the rotary valve into the flow pathway 151-150.
 20           FIG. 2 is a detailed left side view of the components of the recirculating air loop
     250 (discussed above and now shown in its entirety in FIG. 2). Dotted lines generally
     show the boundaries of the foundation, walls and ceiling. The area A is the interior of the
     vault. Arrows show the general direction of flow, with dotted arrows indicating the
     general direction of flow of air, and solid lines show the general direction of flow of
 25  biomass. Feed bin 170 and rotary valve enclosure 190 are also inside the vault as
     discussed above. Biomass flows from the rotary valve, to a dust bag system 210 (e.g., a
     bag house) of the recirculating air loop 250. The dust bag system includes an inlet 212
     for the biomass, a dust bag 214 for trapping small particulates (e.g., biomass fines, dust
     and/or soot), an outlet 216 for recirculating the air, an outlet 218 for large biomass
 30  particles (e.g. sent to further processing or collection), and a gas draw off 219. The
     gasses that are drawn off gas draw off 219 can be treated, for example, with a pollution
     control system to remove and/or destroy and ozone, hazardous air pollutants (HAP) and
     volatile organic compounds (VOC) as will be discussed below. Gas draw off 219 can
     include an axial fan disposed in a champer (e.g., a tube) in fluid communication with the
 35  dust bag and air flows therein as well as flow control valves. At 153 and 154, areas
                                                    12

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     where the system 250 passes through vault walls, the external walls of the pipes are
     made thicker with, for example, lead. The thickness and distance along the pipe for this
     additional thickness is designed to ensure X-rays do not emanate out of the structure near
     153 and 154.
  5           After passing through the dust bag system, the air is cooled by utilizing air-to-air
     heat exchanger 220. The system also includes an air pollution control system 230 in line
     with the recirculating air in the recirculating air loop 250. The pollution control system
     can be used, for example, to remove/destroy ozone, HAP and VOC. Vacuum pump
     system 240 keeps the air circulating in the indicated direction in the recirculating air
 10  loop.
              Air pressure adjusting systems can be disposed anywhere along the gas flow path.
     For example, an inlet (e.g., one or more) for allowing a gas into the system can be
     disposed anywhere along the air flow path and can be configured and/or adjusted to
     replenish the gas that is lost during operation of the recirculating gas loop. In particular,
 15  gas that is lost at gas draw off 219 can be replenished, for example by an inlet that is
     operationally combined with vacuum pump system 240. For example, a small inlet to
     allow a gas (e.g., air, nitrogen) to slightly overpressure the system could be utilized (e.g.,
     overpressure by about 0.1%, 1%, 10%, 50%, 100%). Gases that are lost in the vault can
     be vented through a vent system, for example the exhaust system 155. The vent system
 20  can include pumps/blowers to draw gas from inside the vault to the exterior of the vault.
     The exhausted gases can be treated e.g., with process gas mitigation/treatment systems
     (e.g., ozone, VOCs systems). The Exhaust system can act constantly or periodically to
     ensure that a negative pressure is maintained in the vault.
              FIG. 3A illustrates surrounding systems that can be used with the closed air
 25  recirculating loop discussed above. FIG. 3A shows a perspective view of a vault,
     including; part of the recirculating air loop outside of the vault, a biomass feed storage
     unit 310 and a treated biomass storage unit 320. Biomass from the feed storage unit is
     conveyed by an auger screw system 312 to the inlet to the vault. A screw conveyor 330
     conveys biomass from the dust bag system previously described to a second conveyor
 30  340, which then conveys material to the treated biomass storage unit 320. An auger
     screw system 322 can convey material from the treated biomass storage back to the vault
     for additional treatment. In other optional embodiments, the treated biomass can
     conveyed to a second vault for a second treatment (e.g., a 3 rd, 4' or 5' vault). If the
     biomass is treated a second time, the second conveyor 340 can be redirected to a third
 35  storage unit (not shown here). FIG. 3B shows a side view of the vault and storage units
                                                    13

WO 2014/138550                                                                 PCT/US2014/021632
     including parts of the recirculating air loop 250 and other components previously
     discussed.
             Air pollution control technologies can be used for the destruction of process
     gases, for example after removing gases from the dust bag system at 219 and in the
  5  pollution control system 230. Thermal oxidation can be utilized for the destruction of, for
     example HAPs and VOCs. Since generally HAPs and VOCs are carbon based, thermal
     oxidizer systems can be used to destroy these gases by complete oxidation to carbon
     dioxide and water. Some types of thermal oxidizer systems, for example, that can be
     utilized to treat the process gases as described herein, are regenerative thermal oxidizers,
 10  regenerative catalytic oxidizers, thermal recuperative oxidizers and direct fired thermal
     oxidizer. The first three thermal oxidizer systems can be preferable when designing for
     high energy efficiency because they all include some form of energy (e.g., heat) recovery
     and can have very high thermal efficiencies (e.g., greater than 95%). Air pollution
     control technologies for ozone generally include systems that convert ozone to oxygen.
 15  Other process gases, for example, NOx can also be treated with ammonia to produce
     nitrogen and water
             Air pollution technologies often utilize a metal or metal oxide catalyst. For
     example metal and metal oxide catalysts (e.g., CuO-MnO2, vanadium oxides, tungsten
     oxides, Pd and Pt). The catalysts allow the conversion reactions (e.g., to C02, to 02, to
 20  N2 and/or water) to occur at relatively lower temperatures, for example at temperatures
     as low as about 200 deg C (e.g., 100 to 400 deg C) lower than without the catalysts). Air
     pollution technologies also often utilized activated carbon. Ozone can be reduced to
     oxygen directly utilizing an activated carbon filter (e.g., bed, column). Activated carbons
     also act as an adsorbent for VOCs and HAPs, selectively removing and holding the gases
 25  on the surface until the carbon is regenerated. Activated carbons can be utilized in any
     useful form, for example, granulated, extruded, pelletized, powdered, acid washed, high
     purity, polymer supported, as an aerogel and impregnated carbon (e.g., with iodine,
     silver and metal ions, for example, Al, Mn, Zn, Fe, Li, Ca metal ions).
             The catalysts and activated carbon as described herein can be utilized in an any
 30  useful configuration, e.g., pelletized, extruded, supported (e.g., on silica, on alumina, on
     carbon, on graphite, on aluminosilicates, on clays, on a foam, on a sponge, on a mesh, on
     beads, on a honeycomb structure, on a ceramic, on a woven or non-woven cloth, on a
     pleated filter, on a spiral filter, on a layered filter), as a mesh, as a wire, as fibers, in a
     column and/or on an filtering bed.
                                                      14

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
             Optionally, process gases (e.g., components to be removed and/or destroyed in
     the gas) can be concentrated using, for example, a rotor concentrator and/or a centrifuge
     and then this concentrated gas stream can be treated with the pollution control systems
     described herein. Concentration can provide the advantage of not requiring a high
  5  throughput of gas through one of the air pollution control systems as described herein, so
     that a smaller capacity (e.g., lower gas flow) system can be utilized. Optionally the
     process gas stream can be split into two or more flows and each flow treated
     independently.
             The air pollution technologies and systems can be utilized in combinations and in
 10  any order to treat the process gases. For example, systems for destruction and/or removal
     of VOCs and HAPs can be utilized prior to ozone destruction systems. Additional
     systems can be utilized, for example, particulate filters, in combinations with these
     systems. Removal of particulates, then removal of VOCs and HAPs followed by Ozone
     removal can be preferred to reduce catalyst deactivation (e.g., fouling and catalyst
 15  poisoning can be reduced).
              Some suppliers of process gas mitigation equipment (e.g., air pollution control
     technologies) and related supplies (e.g., filters, catalysts, activated carbon) include:
     Anguil Environmental Systems, Inc. (Milwaukee, WI); PureSphere Co., Inc. (Korea);
     General Air Products, Inc. (Exton, PA); Cabot Corp. (Boston, MA); Corporate
 20  Consulting Service Instruments, Inc. (Arkon, OH); Ozone Solutions, Inc. (Hull, IA);
     Columbus Industries, Inc. (Ashville, OH); California Carbon Co., Inc (Wilmington, CA);
     Calgon Carbon Corporation (Pittsburgh, PA); and General Carbon Co. (Paterson, NJ).
     Some specific ozone destructor units that can be utilized in the methods described herein
     are; the NT-400 unit available from Auguil Environmental Systems Inc. and/or scaled up
 25  versions of this unit. An exemplary ozone destructor system that can be utilized is the
     NT-400 or a scaled up version of this system (e.g., so that high gas flow rates can be
     utilized), available from Ozone Solutions, Inc.
             Air pollution control technologies can be centralized. For example the systems
     utilized to treat gases from 219 can be consolidated at least in part with system 230. This
 30  consolidation can serve to replace any air lost from gases removed at 219. For example,
     they can be combined with other process gas controlling systems such as ozone
     mitigation systems.
             In addition or alternatively to using air in the recirculating air system other gases
     can be used. For example, inert cases selected from nitrogen, argon, helium, carbon
 35  dioxide and mixtures of these. When combined with irradiating systems where the
                                                   15

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     irradiation can occur under an inert gas, the enclosed circulating loop conveyor has the
     advantage of conserving the inert gas. Some small makeup gas can be added to adjust for
     small leaks in the system as previously discussed. For example, the makeup gas (e.g.,
     inert gas) can be added at any point of the recirculating loop through an inlet. The
  5  advantage of utilizing the inert gas would be reduction of ozone production. In the case
     of utilizing an inert gas, for example nitrogen, the ozone filters can be by-passed or
     removed from the closed loop. Other systems, such as the dust bag system (e.g.,
     baghouse), can be modified, for example, so that valve system 219 draws out very little
     or no gas. In optional embodiments, there is no valve system 219 to draw off gas or it is
 10  completely shut off.
              Some more details and reiterations of processes for treating a feedstock that can
     be utilized, for example, with the embodiments already discussed above, or in other
     embodiments, are described in the following disclosures. The conveying systems
     discussed herein can be utilized, for example, in processes that include the feedstock
 15  treatment and processing steps described in the following sections.
                           SYSTEMS FOR TREATING A FEEDSTOCK
              Processes for conversion of a feedstock to sugars and other products, in which the
 20  conveying methods discuss above may be used, can include, for example, optionally
     physically pre-treating the feedstock, e.g., to reduce its size, before and/or after this
     treatment, optionally treating the feedstock to reduce its recalcitrance (e.g., by
     irradiation), and saccharifying the feedstock to form a sugar solution. Saccharification
     can be performed by mixing a dispersion of the feedstock in a liquid medium, e.g., water
 25  with an enzyme, as will be discussed in detail herein. Prior to treatment with an enzyme,
     pretreated biomass can be subjected to hot water and pressure (e.g., 100-150 deg C, 100
     140 deg C or 110-130 deg C and associated pressure), and/or an acid (e.g., about 0.01 to
     1% H 3 PO 4 , about 0.05 to 0.5% H 3PO 4 e.g. about 0.1% H 3 PO 4 ). During or after
     saccharification, the mixture (if saccharification is to be partially or completely
 30  performed en route) or solution can be transported, e.g., by pipeline, railcar, truck or
     barge, to a manufacturing plant. At the plant, the solution can be bioprocessed, e.g.,
     fermented, to produce a desired product or intermediate, which can then be processed
     further, e.g., by distillation. The individual processing steps, materials used and
                                                    16

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     examples of products and intermediates that may be formed will be described in detail
     below
                                     RADIATION TREATMENT
  5
              The feedstock can be treated with radiation to modify its structure to reduce its
     recalcitrance. Such treatment can, for example, reduce the average molecular weight of
     the feedstock, change the crystalline structure of the feedstock, and/or increase the
     surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock. Radiation can be by, for example electron
 10  beam, ion beam, 100 nm to 280 nm ultraviolet (UV) light, gamma or X-ray radiation.
     Radiation treatments and systems for treatments are discussed in U.S. Patent 8,142,620,
     and U.S. Patent Application Series No. 12/417,73 1, the entire disclosures of which are
     incorporated herein by reference.
              Each form of radiation ionizes biomass via particular interactions, as determined
 15  by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles primarily ionize matter via
     Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce energetic electrons that may
     further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and
     are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of
     bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as
 20  actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and plutonium.
     Electrons interact via Coulomb scattering and Bremsstrahlung radiation produced by
     changes in the velocity of electrons.
              When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively charged
     or negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single positive or
 25  negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or more charges.
     In instances in which chain scission is desired to change the molecular structure of the
     carbohydrate containing material, positively charged particles may be desirable, in part,
     due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can have the mass of
     a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more times the mass of a
 30  resting electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from about 1 atomic unit
     to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50 atomic units, or
     from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 atomic units.
              Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
     variety of material in the sample.
                                                    17

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
             In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
     radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
     volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 101, 104, 101, 106, or even greater than 107
     eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
  5  between 104 and 107, e.g., between 101 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
     have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 Hz, greater than 1017 Hz, 1018, 1019, 1020, or
     even greater than 1021 Hz. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a
     frequency of between 1018 and       1022 Hz, e.g., between 1019 to 1021 Hz.
             Electron bombardment may be performed using an electron beam device that has
 10  a nominal energy of less than 10 MeV, e.g., less than 7 MeV, less than 5 MeV, or less
     than 2 MeV, e.g., from about 0.5 to about 4 MeV, from about 0.6 to about 3 MeV, from
     about 0.5 to 1.5 MeV, from about 0.8 to 1.8 MeV, or from about 0.7 to 1 MeV. In some
     implementations the nominal energy is about 500 to 800 keV.
             The electron beam may have a relatively high total beam power (the combined
 15  beam power of all accelerating heads, or, if multiple accelerators are used, of all
     accelerators and all heads), e.g., at least 25 kW, e.g., at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 65, 70, 80,
     100, 125, or 150 kW. In some cases, the power is even as high as 500 kW, 750 kW, or
     even 1000 kW or more. In some cases the electron beam has a beam power of 1200 kW
     or more, e.g., 1400, 1600, 1800, or even 3000 kW.
 20          This high total beam power is usually achieved by utilizing multiple accelerating
     heads. For example, the electron beam device may include two, four, or more
     accelerating heads. The use of multiple heads, each of which has a relatively low beam
     power, prevents excessive temperature rise in the material, thereby preventing burning of
     the material, and also increases the uniformity of the dose through the thickness of the
 25  layer of material.
             It is generally preferred that the bed of biomass material has a relatively uniform
     thickness. In some embodiments the thickness is less than about 1 inch (e.g., less than
     about 0.75 inches, less than about 0.5 inches, less than about 0.25 inches, less than about
     0.1 inches, between about 0.1 and 1 inch, between about 0.2 and 0.3 inches).
 30          It is desirable to treat the material as quickly as possible. In general, it is
     preferred that treatment be performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25 Mrad per
     second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or even greater than
     about 20 Mrad per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 2 Mrad per second. Higher dose rates
     allow a higher throughput for a target (e.g., the desired) dose. Higher dose rates generally
 35  require higher line speeds, to avoid thermal decomposition of the material. In one
                                                      18

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     implementation, the accelerator is set for 3 MeV, 50 mA beam current, and the line
     speed is 24 feet/minute, for a sample thickness of about 20 mm (e.g., comminuted corn
     cob material with a bulk density of 0.5 g/cm 3 ).
             In some embodiments, electron bombardment is performed until the material
  5  receives a total dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, 0.25 Mrad, 1 Mrad, 5 Mrad, e.g., at least 10,
     20, 30 or at least 40 Mrad. In some embodiments, the treatment is performed until the
     material receives a dose of from about 10 Mrad to about 50 Mrad, e.g., from about 20
     Mrad to about 40 Mrad, or from about 25 Mrad to about 30 Mrad. In some
     implementations, a total dose of 25 to 35 Mrad is preferred, applied ideally over a couple
 10  of passes, e.g., at 5 Mrad/pass with each pass being applied for about one second.
     Cooling methods, systems and equipment can be used before, during, after and in
     between radiations, for example utilizing a cooling screw conveyor and/or a cooled
     vibratory conveyor.
             Using multiple heads as discussed above, the material can be treated in multiple
 15  passes, for example, two passes at 10 to 20 Mrad/pass, e.g., 12 to 18 Mrad/pass,
     separated by a few seconds of cool-down, or three passes of 7 to 12 Mrad/pass, e.g., 5 to
     20 Mrad/pass, 10 to 40 Mrad/pass, 9 to 11 Mrad/pass. As discussed herein, treating the
     material with several relatively low doses, rather than one high dose, tends to prevent
     overheating of the material and also increases dose uniformity through the thickness of
 20  the material. In some implementations, the material is stirred or otherwise mixed during
     or after each pass and then smoothed into a uniform layer again before the next pass, to
     further enhance treatment uniformity.
             In some embodiments, electrons are accelerated to, for example, a speed of
     greater than 75 percent of the speed of light, e.g., greater than 85, 90, 95, or 99 percent of
 25  the speed of light.
             In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs on lignocellulosic
     material that remains dry as acquired or that has been dried, e.g., using heat and/or
     reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the cellulosic and/or
     lignocellulosic material has less than about 25 wt. % retained water, measured at 25'C
 30  and at fifty percent relative humidity (e.g., less than about 20 wt.%, less than about 15
     wt.%, less than about 14 wt.%, less than about 13 wt.%, less than about 12 wt.%, less
     than about 10 wt.%, less than about 9 wt.%, less than about 8 wt.%, less than about 7
     wt.%, less than about 6 wt.%, less than about 5 wt.%, less than about 4 wt.%, less than
     about 3 wt.%, less than about 2 wt.%, less than about 1 wt.%, or less than about 0.5
 35  wt.%.
                                                    19

WO 2014/138550                                                                 PCT/US2014/021632
              In some embodiments, two or more ionizing sources can be used, such as two or
     more electron sources. For example, samples can be treated, in any order, with a beam
     of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light having wavelengths from about
     100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments, samples are treated with three ionizing
  5  radiation sources, such as a beam of electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic UV light.
     The biomass is conveyed through the treatment zone where it can be bombarded with
     electrons.
              It may be advantageous to repeat the treatment to more thoroughly reduce the
     recalcitrance of the biomass and/or further modify the biomass. In particular the process
 10  parameters can be adjusted after a first (e.g., second, third, fourth or more) pass
     depending on the recalcitrance of the material. In some embodiments, a conveyor can be
     used which includes a circular system where the biomass is conveyed multiple times
     through the various processes described above. In some other embodiments multiple
     treatment devices (e.g., electron beam generators) are used to treat the biomass multiple
 15  (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more) times. In yet other embodiments, a single electron beam generator
     may be the source of multiple beams (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more beams) that can be used for
     treatment of the biomass.
              The effectiveness in changing the molecular and/or supermolecular structure
     and/or reducing the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing biomass depends on the
 20  electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time depends on the power
     and dose. In some embodiments, the dose rate and total dose are adjusted so as not to
     destroy (e.g., char or bum) the biomass material. For example, the carbohydrates should
     not be damaged in the processing so that they can be released from the biomass intact,
     e.g. as monomeric sugars.
 25           In some embodiments, the treatment (with any electron source or a combination
     of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least about 0.05 Mrad,
     e.g., at least about 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60,
     70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, or 200 Mrad. In some embodiments, the treatment is
     performed until the material receives a dose of between 0.1-100 Mrad, 1-200, 5-200, 10
 30  200, 5-150, 50-150 Mrad, 5-100, 5-50, 5-40, 10-50, 10-75, 15-50, 20-35 Mrad.
              In some embodiments, relatively low doses of radiation are utilized, e.g., to
     increase the molecular weight of a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material (with any
     radiation source or a combination of sources described herein). For example, a dose of at
     least about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1 Mrad or at least about 0.25, 0.5, 0.75. 1.0,
 35  1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, or at least about 5.0 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
                                                      20

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     irradiation is performed until the material receives a dose of between 0. 1Mrad and 2.0
     Mrad, e.g., between 0.5rad and 4.0 Mrad or between 1.0 Mrad and 3.0 Mrad.
              It also can be desirable to irradiate from multiple directions, simultaneously or
     sequentially, in order to achieve a desired degree of penetration of radiation into the
  5  material. For example, depending on the density and moisture content of the material,
     such as wood, and the type of radiation source used (e.g., gamma or electron beam), the
     maximum penetration of radiation into the material may be only about 0.75 inch. In such
     a cases, a thicker section (up to 1.5 inch) can be irradiated by first irradiating the material
     from one side, and then turning the material over and irradiating from the other side.
 10  Irradiation from multiple directions can be particularly useful with electron beam
     radiation, which irradiates faster than gamma radiation but typically does not achieve as
     great a penetration depth.
                               RADIATION OPAQUE MATERIALS
 15
              As previously discussed, the invention can include processing the material in a
     vault and/or bunker that is constructed using radiation opaque materials. In some
     implementations, the radiation opaque materials are selected to be capable of shielding
     the components from X-rays with high energy (short wavelength), which can penetrate
 20  many materials. One important factor in designing a radiation shielding enclosure is the
     attenuation length of the materials used, which will determine the required thickness for
     a particular material, blend of materials, or layered structure. The attenuation length is
     the penetration distance at which the radiation is reduced to approximately l/e (e =
     Eulers number) times that of the incident radiation. Although virtually all materials are
 25  radiation opaque if thick enough, materials containing a high compositional percentage
     (e.g., density) of elements that have a high Z value (atomic number) have a shorter
     radiation attenuation length and thus if such materials are used a thinner, lighter
     shielding can be provided. Examples of high Z value materials that are used in radiation
     shielding are tantalum and lead. Another important parameter in radiation shielding is
 30  the halving distance, which is the thickness of a particular material that will reduce
     gamma ray intensity by 50%. As an example for X-ray radiation with an energy of 0.1
     MeV the halving thickness is about 15.1 mm for concrete and about 2.7 mm for lead,
     while with an X-ray energy of 1 MeV the halving thickness for concrete is about 44.45
     mm and for lead is about 7.9 mm. Radiation opaque materials can be materials that are
 35  thick or thin so long as they can reduce the radiation that passes through to the other side.
                                                     21

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     Thus, if it is desired that a particular enclosure have a low wall thickness, e.g., for light
     weight or due to size constraints, the material chosen should have a sufficient Z value
     and/or attenuation length so that its halving length is less than or equal to the desired
     wall thickness of the enclosure.
  5           In some cases, the radiation opaque material may be a layered material, for
     example having a layer of a higher Z value material, to provide good shielding, and a
     layer of a lower Z value material to provide other properties (e.g., structural integrity,
     impact resistance, etc.). In some cases, the layered material may be a "graded-Z"
     laminate, e.g., including a laminate in which the layers provide a gradient from high-Z
 10  through successively lower-Z elements. In some cases the radiation opaque materials can
     be interlocking blocks, for example, lead and/or concrete blocks can be supplied by
     NELCO Worldwide (Burlington, MA), and reconfigurable vaults can be utilized.
              A radiation opaque material can reduce the radiation passing through a structure
     (e.g., a wall, door, ceiling, enclosure, a series of these or combinations of these) formed
 15  of the material by about at least about 10 %, (e.g., at least about 20%, at least about 30%,
     at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least
     about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 96%, at least about
     97%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, at least about 99.9%, at least about 99.99%,
     at least about 99.999%) as compared to the incident radiation. Therefore, an enclosure
 20  made of a radiation opaque material can reduce the exposure of
     equipment/system/components by the same amount. Radiation opaque materials can
     include stainless steel, metals with Z values above 25 (e.g., lead, iron), concrete, dirt,
     sand and combinations thereof. Radiation opaque materials can include a barrier in the
     direction of the incident radiation of at least about 1mm (e.g., 5 mm, 10mm, 5 cm, 10
 25  cm, 100cm, im, 10m).
                                        RADIATION SOURCES
              The type of radiation determines the kinds of radiation sources used as well as the
 30  radiation devices and associated equipment. The methods, systems and equipment
     described herein, for example for treating materials with radiation, can utilized sources
     as described herein as well as any other useful source.
              Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of cobalt,
     calcium, technetium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron, krypton, samarium,
 35  selenium, sodium, thallium, and xenon.
                                                     22

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
              Sources of X-rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
     tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
     commercially by Lyncean.
              Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and are produced by
  5  the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of bismuth, polonium,
     astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as actinium, thorium, uranium,
     neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and plutonium.
              Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
              Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window ceramic
 10  lamps.
              Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom beam
     sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
              Accelerators used to accelerate the particles (e.g., electrons or ions) can be DC
     (e.g., electrostatic DC or electrodynamic DC), RF linear, magnetic induction linear or
 15  continuous wave. For example, various irradiating devices may be used in the methods
     disclosed herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators, field
     ionization generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion sources,
     recirculating or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff
     accelerators, Cockroft Walton accelerators (e.g., PELLETRON@ accelerators), LINACS,
 20  Dynamitrons (e.g., DYNAMITRON@ accelerators), cyclotrons, synchrotrons, betatrons,
     transformer-type accelerators, microtrons, plasma generators, cascade accelerators, and
     folded tandem accelerators. For example, cyclotron type accelerators are available from
     IBA, Belgium, such as the RHODOTRONTM system, while DC type accelerators are
     available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the DYNAMITRON@. Other suitable
 25  accelerator systems include, for example: DC insulated core transformer (ICT) type
     systems, available from Nissin High Voltage, Japan; S-band LINACs, available from L3
     PSD (USA), Linac Systems (France), Mevex (Canada), and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
     (Japan); L-band LINACs, available from Jotron Industries (Canada); and ILU-based
     accelerators, available from Budker Laboratories (Russia). Ions and ion accelerators are
 30  discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
     (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, Chu, William T., "Overview of
     Light-Ion Beam Therapy", Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006,
     Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical
     Accelerators", Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, , and Leitner, C.M. et
 35  al., "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings of EPAC 2000,
                                                    23

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     Vienna, Austria. Some particle accelerators and their uses are disclosed, for example, in
     U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
             Electrons may be produced by radioactive nuclei that undergo beta decay, such as
  5  isotopes of iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium. Alternatively, an electron gun can
     be used as an electron source via thermionic emission and accelerated through an
     accelerating potential. An electron gun generates electrons, which are then accelerated
     through a large potential (e.g., greater than about 500 thousand, greater than about
     1million, greater than about 2 million, greater than about 5 million, greater than about 6
 10  million, greater than about 7 million, greater than about 8 million, greater than about 9
     million, or even greater than 10 million volts) and then scanned magnetically in the x-y
     plane, where the electrons are initially accelerated in the z direction down the accelerator
     tube and extracted through a foil window. Scanning the electron beams is useful for
     increasing the irradiation surface when irradiating materials, e.g., a biomass, that is
 15  conveyed through the scanned beam. Scanning the electron beam also distributes the
     thermal load homogenously on the window and helps reduce the foil window rupture due
     to local heating by the electron beam. Window foil rupture is a cause of significant
     down-time due to subsequent necessary repairs and re-starting the electron gun.
             Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods disclosed herein,
 20  including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators, field ionization generators,
     thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion sources, recirculating or static
     accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff accelerators, and folded tandem
     accelerators. Such devices are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to
     Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 25          A beam of electrons can be used as the radiation source. A beam of electrons has
     the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per second), high
     throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electron beams can also
     have high electrical efficiency (e.g., 80%), allowing for lower energy usage relative to
     other radiation methods, which can translate into a lower cost of operation and lower
 30  greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the smaller amount of energy used. Electron
     beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade generators, transformer
     generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low energy accelerators with
     a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
             Electrons can also be more efficient at causing changes in the molecular structure
 35  of carbohydrate-containing materials, for example, by the mechanism of chain scission.
                                                   24

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     In addition, electrons having energies of 0.5-10 MeV can penetrate low density
     materials, such as the biomass materials described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk
     density of less than 0.5 g/cm3 , and a depth of 0.3-10 cm. Electrons as an ionizing
     radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin piles, layers or beds of materials,
  5  e.g., less than about 0.5 inch, e.g., less than about 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.25 inch, or less
     than about 0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron
     beam is from about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about
     0.5 MeV to about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV. Methods of
     irradiating materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 AL, filed
 10  October 18, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
              Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially or built. For
     example elements or components such inductors, capacitors, casings, power sources,
     cables, wiring, voltage control systems, current control elements, insulating material,
     microcontrollers and cooling equipment can be purchased and assembled into a device.
 15  Optionally, a commercial device can be modified and/or adapted. For example, devices
     and components can be purchased from any of the commercial sources described herein
     including Ion Beam Applications (Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium), Wasik Associates inc.
     (Dracut, MA), NHV Corporation (Japan), the Titan Corporation (San Diego, CA),
     Vivirad High Voltage Corp (Billerica, MA) and/or Budker Laboratories (Russia).
 20  Typical electron energies can be 0.5 MeV, 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10
     MeV. Typical electron beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20
     kW, 50 kW, 60 kW, 70 kW, 80 kW, 90 kW, 100 kW, 125 kW, 150 kW, 175 kW, 200
     kW, 250 kW, 300 kW, 350 kW, 400 kW, 450 kW, 500 kW, 600 kW, 700 kW, 800 kW,
     900 kW or even 1000 kW. Accelerators that can be used include NHV irradiators
 25  medium energy series EPS-500 (e.g., 500 kV accelerator voltage and 65, 100 or 150 mA
     beam current), EPS-800 (e.g., 800 kV accelerator voltage and 65 or 100 mA beam
     current), or EPS-1000 (e.g., 1000 kV accelerator voltage and 65 or 100 mA beam
     current). Also, accelerators from NHV's high energy series can be used such as EPS
     1500 (e.g., 1500 kV accelerator voltage and 65 mA beam current), EPS-2000 (e.g., 2000
 30  kV accelerator voltage and 50 mA beam current), EPS-3000 (e.g., 3000 kV accelerator
     voltage and 50 mA beam current) and EPS-5000 (e.g., 5000 and 30 mA beam current).
              Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power specifications
     include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device footprint. Tradeoffs in
     considering exposure dose levels of electron beam irradiation would be energy costs and
 35  environment, safety, and health (ESH) concerns. Typically, generators are housed in a
                                                     25

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     vault, e.g., of lead or concrete, especially for production from X-rays that are generated
     in the process. Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy costs.
             The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed beam or a
     scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large scan sweep length
  5  and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large, fixed beam width.
     Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, 1 m, 2 m or more are available. The scanning
     beam is preferred in most embodiments described herein because of the larger scan width
     and reduced possibility of local heating and failure of the windows.
 10                               ELECTRON GUNS - WINDOWS
             The extraction system for an electron accelerator can include two window foils.
     The cooling gas in the two foil window extraction system can be a purge gas or a
     mixture, for example air, or a pure gas. In one embodiment the gas is an inert gas such
 15  as nitrogen, argon, helium and or carbon dioxide. It is preferred to use a gas rather than a
     liquid since energy losses to the electron beam are minimized. Mixtures of pure gas can
     also be used, either pre-mixed or mixed in line prior to impinging on the windows or in
     the space between the windows. The cooling gas can be cooled, for example, by using a
     heat exchange system (e.g., a chiller) and/or by using boil off from a condensed gas (e.g.,
 20  liquid nitrogen, liquid helium). Window foils are described in PCT/US2013/64332 filed
     October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
           HEATING AND THROUGHPUT DURING RADIATION TREATMENT
 25          Several processes can occur in biomass when electrons from an electron beam
     interact with matter in inelastic collisions. For example, ionization of the material, chain
     scission of polymers in the material, cross linking of polymers in the material, oxidation
     of the material, generation of X-rays ("Bremsstrahlung") and vibrational excitation of
     molecules (e.g. phonon generation). Without being bound to a particular mechanism, the
 30  reduction in recalcitrance can be due to several of these inelastic collision effects, for
     example ionization, chain scission of polymers, oxidation and phonon generation. Some
     of the effects (e.g., especially X-ray generation), necessitate shielding and engineering
     barriers, for example, enclosing the irradiation processes in a concrete (or other radiation
     opaque material) vault. Another effect of irradiation, vibrational excitation, is equivalent
                                                    26

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     to heating up the sample. Heating the sample by irradiation can help in recalcitrance
     reduction, but excessive heating can destroy the material, as will be explained below.
              The adiabatic temperature rise (AT) from adsorption of ionizing radiation is given
     by the equation: AT = D/Cp: where D is the average dose in kGy, Cp is the heat capacity
  5  in J/g 0 C, and AT is the change in temperature in 0C. A typical dry biomass material will
     have a heat capacity close to 2. Wet biomass will have a higher heat capacity dependent
     on the amount of water since the heat capacity of water is very high ( 4.19 J/g 0 C).
     Metals have much lower heat capacities, for example 304 stainless steel has a heat
     capacity of 0.5 J/g 0 C. The temperature change due to the instant adsorption of radiation
 10  in a biomass and stainless steel for various doses of radiation is shown in Table 1. At the
     higher temperatures biomass will decompose causing extreme deviation from the
     estimated changes in temperature.
     Table 1: Calculated Temperature increase for biomass and stainless steel.
       Dose (Mrad)          Estimated Biomass AT (C)             Steel AT (C)
       10                   50                                   200
       50                   250 (decomposed)                     1000
       100                  500 (decomposed)                     2000
       150                  750 (decomposed)                     3000
       200                  1000 (decomposed)                    4000
 15
              High temperatures can destroy and or modify the biopolymers in biomass so that
     the polymers (e.g., cellulose) are unsuitable for further processing. A biomass subjected
     to high temperatures can become dark, sticky and give off odors indicating
     decomposition. The stickiness can even make the material hard to convey. The odors can
 20  be unpleasant and be a safety issue. In fact, keeping the biomass below about 200 0 C has
     been found to be beneficial in the processes described herein (e.g., below about 190 0 C,
     below about 180 0 C, below about 170 0 C, below about 160 0 C, below about 150 0 C, below
     about 140 0 C, below about 130 0 C, below about 120 0 C, below about 1 100 C, between
     about 60 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 60 0 C and 160 0 C, between about 60 0 C and 150 0 C,
 25  between about 60 0 C and 140 0C, between about 60 0 C and 130 0 C, between about 60 0 C
     and 120 0 C, between about 80 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 100 0C and 180 0 C, between
     about 120 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 140 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 160 0 C and
     180 0 C, between about 100 0C and 140 0 C, between about 80 0C and 120 0 C).
                                                   27

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
              It has been found that irradiation above about 10 Mrad is desirable for the
     processes described herein (e.g., reduction of recalcitrance). A high throughput is also
     desirable so that the irradiation does not become a bottle neck in processing the biomass.
     The treatment is governed by a Dose rate equation: M = FP/D-time, where M is the mass
  5  of irradiated material (Kg), F is the fraction of power that is adsorbed (unit less), P is the
     emitted power (kW=Voltage in MeV x Current in mA), time is the treatment time (sec)
     and D is the adsorbed dose (kGy). In an exemplary process where the fraction of
     adsorbed power is fixed, the Power emitted is constant and a set dosage is desired, the
     throughput (e.g., M, the biomass processed) can be increased by increasing the
 10  irradiation time. However, increasing the irradiation time without allowing the material
     to cool, can excessively heat the material as exemplified by the calculations shown
     above. Since biomass has a low thermal conductivity (less than about 0.1 Wm-'K-'), heat
     dissipation is slow, unlike, for example metals (greater than about 10 Wm-'K-1) which
     can dissipate energy quickly as long as there is a heat sink to transfer the energy to.
 15
                                ELECTRON GUNS - BEAM STOPS
              In some embodiments the systems and methods include a beam stop (e.g., a
     shutter). For example, the beam stop can be used to quickly stop or reduce the
 20  irradiation of material without powering down the electron beam device. Alternatively
     the beam stop can be used while powering up the electron beam, e.g., the beam stop can
     stop the electron beam until a beam current of a desired level is achieved. The beam stop
     can be placed between the primary foil window and a secondary foil window. For
     example the beam stop can be mounted so that it is movable, that is, so that it can be
 25  moved into and out of the beam path. Even partial coverage of the beam can be used, for
     example, to control the dose of irradiation. The beam stop can be mounted to the floor,
     to a conveyor for the biomass, to a wall, to the radiation device (e.g., at the scan horn), or
     to any structural support. Preferably the beam stop is fixed in relation to the scan horn so
     that the beam can be effectively controlled by the beam stop. The beam stop can
 30  incorporate a hinge, a rail, wheels, slots, or other means allowing for its operation in
     moving into and out of the beam. The beam stop can be made of any material that will
     stop at least 5% of the electrons, e.g., at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, at
     least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or even about
     100% of the electrons.
                                                     28

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
              The beam stop can be made of a metal including, but not limited to, stainless
     steel, lead, iron, molybdenum, silver, gold, titanium, aluminum, tin, or alloys of these, or
     laminates (layered materials) made with such metals (e.g., metal-coated ceramic, metal
     coated polymer, metal-coated composite, multilayered metal materials). Optionally beam
  5  stops can be made of corrosion resistant materials. The beam stops can include structural
     materials that include stainless steel (e.g., 304, 316 stainless steel, HASTELLOY@
     ALLOYS and INCONEL@ Alloys). For example, HASTELLOY@ Corrosion-Resistant
     alloys from Hynes (Kokomo, Indiana, USA) such as HASTELLOY@ B-3@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ HYBRID-BC1@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-4 ALLOY,
 10  HASTELLOY@ C-22@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-22HS@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@
     C-276 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-2000@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-30@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ G-35@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ N ALLOY and HASTELLOY@
     ULTIMET@ alloy.
              The beam stop can be cooled, for example, with a cooling fluid such as an
 15  aqueous solution or a gas. The beam stop can be partially or completely hollow, for
     example with cavities. Interior spaces of the beam stop can be used for cooling fluids
     and gases. The beam stop can be of any shape, including flat, curved, round, oval,
     square, rectangular, beveled and wedged shapes.
              The beam stop can have perforations so as to allow some electrons through, thus
 20  controlling (e.g., reducing) the levels of radiation across the whole area of the window,
     or in specific regions of the window. The beam stop can be a mesh formed, for example,
     from fibers or wires. Multiple beam stops can be used, together or independently, to
     control the irradiation. The beam stop can be remotely controlled, e.g., by radio signal or
     hard wired to a motor for moving the beam into or out of position.
 25
                                            BEAM DUMPS
              The embodiments disclosed herein can also include a beam dump. A beam
     dump's purpose is to safely absorb a beam of charged particles. Like a beam stop, a
 30  beam dump can be used to block the beam of charged particles. However, a beam dump
     is much more robust than a beam stop, and is intended to block the full power of the
     electron beam for an extended period of time. They are often used to block the beam as
     the accelerator is powering up.
              Beam dumps are also designed to accommodate the heat generated by such
 35  beams, and are usually made from materials such as copper, aluminum, carbon,
                                                    29

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     beryllium, tungsten, or mercury. Beam dumps can be cooled, for example by using a
     cooling fluid that is in thermal contact with the beam dump.
                                       BIOMASS MATERIALS
  5
              Lignocellulosic materials include, but are not limited to, wood, particle board,
     forestry wastes (e.g., sawdust, aspen wood, wood chips), grasses, (e.g., switchgrass,
     miscanthus, cord grass, reed canary grass), grain residues, (e.g., rice hulls, oat hulls,
     wheat chaff, barley hulls), agricultural waste (e.g., silage, canola straw, wheat straw,
 10  barley straw, oat straw, rice straw, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, corn cobs, corn
     stover, soybean stover, corn fiber, alfalfa, hay, coconut hair), sugar processing residues
     (e.g., bagasse, beet pulp, agave bagasse), algae, seaweed, manure, sewage, and mixtures
     of any of these.
              In some cases, the lignocellulosic material includes corncobs. Ground or
 15  hammermilled corncobs can be spread in a layer of relatively uniform thickness for
     irradiation, and after irradiation are easy to disperse in the medium for further
     processing. To facilitate harvest and collection, in some cases the entire corn plant is
     used, including the corn stalk, corn kernels, and in some cases even the root system of
     the plant.
 20           Advantageously, no additional nutrients (other than a nitrogen source, e.g., urea
     or ammonia) are required during fermentation of corncobs or cellulosic or lignocellulosic
     materials containing significant amounts of corncobs.
              Corncobs, before and after comminution, are also easier to convey and disperse,
     and have a lesser tendency to form explosive mixtures in air than other cellulosic or
 25  lignocellulosic materials such as hay and grasses.
              Cellulosic materials include, for example, paper, paper products, paper waste,
     paper pulp, pigmented papers, loaded papers, coated papers, filled papers, magazines,
     printed matter (e.g., books, catalogs, manuals, labels, calendars, greeting cards,
     brochures, prospectuses, newsprint), printer paper, polycoated paper, card stock,
 30  cardboard, paperboard, materials having a high a-cellulose content such as cotton, and
     mixtures of any of these. For example paper products as described in U.S. App. No.
     13/396,365 ("Magazine Feedstocks" by Medoff et al., filed February 14, 2012), the full
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
              Cellulosic materials can also include lignocellulosic materials which have been
 35  partially or fully de-lignified.
                                                    30

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
              In some instances other biomass materials can be utilized, for example starchy
     materials. Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn starch, wheat starch, potato
     starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes starch, such as an
     edible food product or a crop. For example, the starchy material can be arracacha,
  5  buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular household
     potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas.
     Blends of any two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials. Mixtures of
     starchy, cellulosic and or lignocellulosic materials can also be used. For example, a
     biomass can be an entire plant, a part of a plant or different parts of a plant, e.g., a wheat
 10  plant, cotton plant, a corn plant, rice plant or a tree. The starchy materials can be treated
     by any of the methods described herein.
              Microbial materials that can be used as feedstock can include, but are not limited
     to, any naturally occurring or genetically modified microorganism or organism that
     contains or is capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g., cellulose), for
 15  example, protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates, amoeboids,
     ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
     chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red algae,
     stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae). Other examples include seaweed, plankton (e.g.,
     macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton, picoplankton, and
 20  femtoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive bacteria, gram negative
     bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of these. In some instances,
     microbial biomass can be obtained from natural sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of
     water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial
     biomass can be obtained from culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture and
 25  fermentation systems.
              In other embodiments, the biomass materials, such as cellulosic, starchy and
     lignocellulosic feedstock materials, can be obtained from transgenic microorganisms and
     plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type variety. Such modifications
     may be, for example, through the iterative steps of selection and breeding to obtain
 30  desired traits in a plant. Furthermore, the plants can have had genetic material removed,
     modified, silenced and/or added with respect to the wild type variety. For example,
     genetically modified plants can be produced by recombinant DNA methods, where
     genetic modifications include introducing or modifying specific genes from parental
     varieties, or, for example, by using transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes
 35  are introduced to a plant from a different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way
                                                    31

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     to create genetic variation is through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are
     artificially created from endogenous genes. The artificial genes can be created by a
     variety of ways including treating the plant or seeds with, for example, chemical
     mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides, alkaloids, peroxides, formaldehyde),
  5  irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta particles, alpha particles, protons,
     deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or other external stressing and
     subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of providing modified genes is through
     error prone PCR and DNA shuffling followed by insertion of the desired modified DNA
     into the desired plant or seed. Methods of introducing the desired genetic variation in the
 10  seed or plant include, for example, the use of a bacterial carrier, biolistics, calcium
     phosphate precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene silencing, lipofection,
     microinjection and viral carriers. Additional genetically modified materials have been
     described in U.S. Application Serial No 13/396,369 filed February 14, 2012 the full
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 15           Any of the methods described herein can be practiced with mixtures of any
     biomass materials described herein.
                                        OTHER MATERIALS
 20           Other materials (e.g., natural or synthetic materials), for example polymers, can
     be treated and/or made utilizing the methods, equipment and systems described herein.
     For example polyethylene (e.g., linear low density ethylene and high density
     polyethylene), polystyrenes, sulfonated polystyenes, poly (vinyl chloride), polyesters
     (e.g., nylons, DACRONTM, KODELTM), polyalkylene esters, poly vinyl esters,
 25  polyamides (e.g., KEVLARTM), polyethylene terephthalate, cellulose acetate, acetal,
     poly acrylonitrile, polycarbonates (e.g., LEXANTM), acrylics [e.g., poly (methyl
     methacrylate), poly(methyl methacrylate), polyacrylnitriles], Poly urethanes,
     polypropylene, poly butadiene, polyisobutylene, polyacrylonitrile, polychloroprene (e.g.
     neoprene), poly(cis-1,4-isoprene) [e.g., natural rubber], poly(trans-1,4-isoprene) [e.g.,
 30  gutta percha], phenol formaldehyde, melamine formaldehyde, epoxides, polyesters, poly
     amines, polycarboxylic acids, polylactic acids, polyvinyl alcohols, polyanhydrides, poly
     fluoro carbons (e.g., TEFLONTM), silicons (e.g., silicone rubber), polysilanes, poly ethers
     (e.g., polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide), waxes, oils and mixtures of these . Also
     included are plastics, rubbers, elastomers, fibers, waxes, gels, oils, adhesives,
 35  thermoplastics, thermosets, biodegradable polymers, resins made with these polymers,
                                                    32

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     other polymers, other materials and combinations thereof. The polymers can be made by
     any useful method including cationic polymerization, anionic polymerization, radical
     polymerization, metatheses polymerization, ring opening polymerization, graft
     polymerization, addition polymerization. In some cases the treatments disclosed herein
  5  can be used, for example, for radically initiated graft polymerization and cross linking.
     Composites of polymers, for example with glass, metals, biomass (e.g., fibers, particles),
     ceramics can also be treated and/or made.
             Other materials that can be treated by using the methods, systems and equipment
     disclosed herein are ceramic materials, minerals, metals, inorganic compounds. For
 10  example, silicon and germanium crystals, silicon nitrides, metal oxides, semiconductors,
     insulators, cements and or conductors.
             In addition, manufactured multipart or shaped materials (e.g., molded, extruded,
     welded, riveted, layered or combined in any way) can be treated, for example cables,
     pipes, boards, enclosures, integrated semiconductor chips, circuit boards, wires, tires,
 15  windows, laminated materials, gears, belts, machines, combinations of these. For
     example, treating a material by the methods described herein can modify the surfaces, for
     example, making them susceptible to further functionalization, combinations (e.g.,
     welding) and/or treatment can cross link the materials.
 20      BIOMASS MATERIAL PREPARATION - MECHANICAL TREATMENTS
             The biomass can be in a dry form, for example with less than about 35% moisture
     content (e.g., less than about 20 %, less than about 15 %, less than about 10 % less than
     about 5 %, less than about 4%, less than about 3 %, less than about 2 % or even less
 25  than about 1 %). The biomass can also be delivered in a wet state, for example as a wet
     solid, a slurry or a suspension with at least about 10 wt.% solids (e.g., at least about 20
     wt.%, at least about 30 wt. %, at least about 40 wt.%, at least about 50 wt.%, at least
     about 60 wt.%, at least about 70 wt.%).
             The material to be processed, e.g., biomass material or another feedstock, can be
 30  a particulate material. For example, with an average particle size above at least about
     0.25mm (e.g., at least about 0.5mm, at least about 0.75mm, at least about 1.00mm) and
     below about 10mm (e.g., below about 6 mm, below about 5mm, below about 4mm,
     below about 3mm, below about 2mm). In some embodiments this is produced by
     mechanical means, for example as described herein.
                                                   33

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
             The processes disclosed herein can utilize low bulk density materials, for
     example cellulosic or lignocellulosic feedstocks that have been physically pretreated to
     have a bulk density of less than about 0.75 g/cm 3, e.g., less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60,
     0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or less, e.g., less than about 0.025 g/cm 3. Bulk
  5  density is determined using ASTM D1895B. Briefly, the method involves filling a
     measuring cylinder of known volume with a sample and obtaining a weight of the
     sample. The bulk density is calculated by dividing the weight of the sample in grams by
     the known volume of the cylinder in cubic centimeters. If desired, low bulk density
     materials can be densified, for example, by methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,971,809
 10  published July 5, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by
     reference.
             In some cases, the pre-treatment processing includes screening of the biomass
     material. Screening can be through a mesh or perforated plate with a desired opening
     size, for example, less than about 6.35 mm (1/4 inch, 0.25 inch), (e.g., less than about
 15  3.18 mm (1/8 inch, 0.125 inch), less than about 1.59 mm (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), is less
     than about 0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch), e.g., less than about 0.51 mm (1/50 inch,
     0.02000 inch), less than about 0.40 mm (1/64 inch, 0.015625 inch), less than about 0.23
     mm (0.009 inch), less than about 0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than about
     0.18 mm (0.007 inch), less than about 0.13 mm (0.005 inch), or even less than about 0.10
 20  mm (1/256 inch, 0.00390625 inch)). In one configuration the desired biomass falls
     through the perforations or screen and thus biomass larger than the perforations or screen
     are not irradiated. These larger materials can be re-processed, for example by
     comminuting, or they can simply be removed from processing. In another configuration
     material that is larger than the perforations is irradiated and the smaller material is
 25  removed by the screening process or recycled. In this kind of a configuration, the
     conveyor, such as a vibratory conveyor, itself (for example a part of the conveyor) can be
     perforated or made with a mesh. For example, in one particular embodiment the biomass
     material may be wet and the perforations or mesh allow water to drain away from the
     biomass before irradiation.
 30          Screening of material can also be by a manual method, for example by an
     operator or mechanoid (e.g., a robot equipped with a color, reflectivity or other sensor)
     that removes unwanted material. Screening can also be by magnetic screening wherein a
     magnet is disposed near the conveyed material and the magnetic material is removed
     magnetically.
                                                    34

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
              Optional pre-treatment processing can include heating the material. For example
     a portion of a conveyor conveying the biomass or other material can be sent through a
     heated zone. The heated zone can be created, for example, by IR radiation, microwaves,
     combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, biomass), resistive heating and/or inductive coils. The
  5  heat can be applied from at least one side or more than one side, can be continuous or
     periodic and can be for only a portion of the material or all the material. For example, a
     portion of the conveying trough can be heated by use of a heating jacket. Heating can
     be, for example, for the purpose of drying the material. In the case of drying the
     material, this can also be facilitated, with or without heating, by the movement of a gas
 10  (e.g., air, oxygen, nitrogen, He, C02, Argon) over and/or through the biomass as it is
     being conveyed.
              Optionally, pre-treatment processing can include cooling the material. Cooling
     material is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,900,857 published March 8, 2011, the disclosure
     of which in incorporated herein by reference. For example, cooling can be by supplying
 15  a cooling fluid, for example water (e.g., with glycerol), or nitrogen (e.g., liquid nitrogen)
     to the bottom of the conveying trough. Alternatively, a cooling gas, for example, chilled
     nitrogen can be blown over the biomass materials or under the conveying system.
              Another optional pre-treatment processing method can include adding a material
     to the biomass or other feedstocks. The additional material can be added by, for
 20  example, by showering, sprinkling and or pouring the material onto the biomass as it is
     conveyed. Materials that can be added include, for example, metals, ceramics and/or
     ions as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0105119 Al (filed October 26, 2009) and
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0159569 Al (filed December 16, 2009), the entire disclosures
     of which are incorporated herein by reference. Optional materials that can be added
 25  include acids and bases. Other materials that can be added are oxidants (e.g., peroxides,
     chlorates), polymers, polymerizable monomers (e.g., containing unsaturated bonds),
     water, catalysts, enzymes and/or organisms. Materials can be added, for example, in
     pure form, as a solution in a solvent (e.g., water or an organic solvent) and/or as a
     solution. In some cases the solvent is volatile and can be made to evaporate e.g., by
 30  heating and/or blowing gas as previously described. The added material may form a
     uniform coating on the biomass or be a homogeneous mixture of different components
     (e.g., biomass and additional material). The added material can modulate the subsequent
     irradiation step by increasing the efficiency of the irradiation, damping the irradiation or
     changing the effect of the irradiation (e.g., from electron beams to X-rays or heat). The
 35  method may have no impact on the irradiation but may be useful for further downstream
                                                    35

WO 2014/138550                                                                   PCT/US2014/021632
     processing. The added material may help in conveying the material, for example, by
     lowering dust levels.
             Biomass can be delivered to conveyor (e.g., vibratory conveyors that can be used
     in the vaults herein described) by a belt conveyor, a pneumatic conveyor, a screw
  5  conveyor, a hopper, a pipe, manually or by a combination of these. The biomass can, for
     example, be dropped, poured and/or placed onto the conveyor by any of these methods.
     In some embodiments the material is delivered to the conveyor using an enclosed
     material distribution system to help maintain a low oxygen atmosphere and/or control
     dust and fines. Lofted or air suspended biomass fines and dust are undesirable because
 10  these can form an explosion hazard or damage the window foils of an electron gun (if
     such a device is used for treating the material).
             The material can be leveled to form a uniform thickness between about 0.0312
     and 5 inches (e.g., between about 0.0625 and 2.000 inches, between about 0.125 and 1
     inches, between about 0.125 and 0.5 inches, between about 0.3 and 0.9 inches, between
 15  about 0.2 and 0.5 inches between about 0.25 and 1.0 inches, between about 0.25 and 0.5
     inches, 0.100 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.150 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.200 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.250+/
     0.025 inches, 0.300 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.350 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.400 +/- 0.025 inches,
     0.450 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.500 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.550 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.600 +/- 0.025
     inches, 0.700 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.750 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.800 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.850 +/
 20  0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches.
             Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through the
     electron beam to maximize throughput. For example the material can be conveyed at
     rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at least 5
     ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 ft/min. The rate of
 25  conveying is related to the beam current, for example, for a          inch thick biomass and
     100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a useful irradiation
     dosage, at 50 mA the conveyor can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the
     same irradiation dosage.
             After the biomass material has been conveyed through the radiation zone,
 30  optional post-treatment processing can be done. The optional post-treatment processing
     can, for example, be a process described with respect to the pre-irradiation processing.
     For example, the biomass can be screened, heated, cooled, and/or combined with
     additives. Uniquely to post-irradiation, quenching of the radicals can occur, for example,
     quenching of radicals by the addition of fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide,
 35  ammonia, liquids), using pressure, heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers. For
                                                      36

WO 2014/138550                                                                 PCT/US2014/021632
     example, the biomass can be conveyed out of the enclosed conveyor and exposed to a
     gas (e.g., oxygen) where it is quenched, forming carboxylated groups. In one
     embodiment the biomass is exposed during irradiation to the reactive gas or fluid.
     Quenching of biomass that has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906
  5  published Dec. 27, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is incorporate herein by
     reference.
              If desired, one or more mechanical treatments can be used in addition to
     irradiation to further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material.
     These processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation.
 10           In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial preparation of the
     feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as by comminution, e.g.,
     cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For example, in some cases, loose
     feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials, or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing
     or shredding. Mechanical treatment may reduce the bulk density of the carbohydrate
 15  containing material, increase the surface area of the carbohydrate-containing material
     and/or decrease one or more dimensions of the carbohydrate-containing material.
              Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can be treated with another
     treatment, for example chemical treatments, such as with an acid (HCl, H2 SO 4 , H3 PO4), a
     base (e.g., KOH and NaOH), a chemical oxidant (e.g., peroxides, chlorates, ozone),
 20  irradiation, steam explosion, pyrolysis, sonication, oxidation, chemical treatment. The
     treatments can be in any order and in any sequence and combinations. For example, the
     feedstock material can first be physically treated by one or more treatment methods, e.g.,
     chemical treatment including and in combination with acid hydrolysis (e.g., utilizing
     HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H3 PO 4 ), radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion, and
 25  then mechanically treated. This sequence can be advantageous since materials treated by
     one or more of the other treatments, e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis, tend to be more brittle
     and, therefore, it may be easier to further change the structure of the material by
     mechanical treatment. As another example, a feedstock material can be conveyed
     through ionizing radiation using a conveyor as described herein and then mechanically
 30  treated. Chemical treatment can remove some or all of the lignin (for example, chemical
     pulping) and can partially or completely hydrolyze the material. The methods also can
     be used with pre-hydrolyzed material. The methods also can be used with material that
     has not been pre hydrolyzed The methods can be used with mixtures of hydrolyzed and
     non-hydrolyzed materials, for example, with about 50% or more non-hydrolyzed
 35  material, with about 60% or more non- hydrolyzed material, with about 70% or more
                                                       37

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     non-hydrolyzed material, with about 80% or more non-hydrolyzed material or even with
     90% or more non-hydrolyzed material.
              In addition to size reduction, which can be performed initially and/or later in
     processing, mechanical treatment can also be advantageous for "opening up,"
  5  "stressing," breaking or shattering the carbohydrate-containing materials, making the
     cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission and/or disruption of
     crystalline structure during the physical treatment.
              Methods of mechanically treating the carbohydrate-containing material include,
     for example, milling or grinding. Milling may be performed using, for example, a
 10  hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or cone mill, disk mill, edge mill, Wiley
     mill, grist mill or other mill. Grinding may be performed using, for example, a
     cutting/impact type grinder. Some exemplary grinders include stone grinders, pin
     grinders, coffee grinders, and burr grinders. Grinding or milling may be provided, for
     example, by a reciprocating pin or other element, as is the case in a pin mill. Other
 15  mechanical treatment methods include mechanical ripping or tearing, other methods that
     apply pressure to the fibers, and air attrition milling. Suitable mechanical treatments
     further include any other technique that continues the disruption of the internal structure
     of the material that was initiated by the previous processing steps.
              Mechanical feed preparation systems can be configured to produce streams with
 20  specific characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum sizes, specific length-to
     width, or specific surface areas ratios. Physical preparation can increase the rate of
     reactions, improve the movement of material on a conveyor, improve the irradiation
     profile of the material, improve the radiation uniformity of the material, or reduce the
     processing time required by opening up the materials and making them more accessible
 25  to processes and/or reagents, such as reagents in a solution.
              The bulk density of feedstocks can be controlled (e.g., increased). In some
     situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material, e.g., by densifying
     the material (e.g., densification can make it easier and less costly to transport to another
     site) and then reverting the material to a lower bulk density state (e.g., after transport).
 30  The material can be densified, for example from less than about 0.2 g/cc to more than
     about 0.9 g/cc (e.g., less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.5 g/cc, less than about 0.3 to
     more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about 0.5 to more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about
     0.3 to more than about 0.8 g/cc, less than about 0.2 to more than about 0.5 g/cc). For
     example, the material can be densified by the methods and equipment disclosed in U.S.
                                                    38

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff and International Publication No. WO 2008/073186
     (which was filed October 26, 2007, was published in English, and which designated the
     United States), the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or any
  5  material processed by any of the methods described herein can be subsequently
     densified.
              In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form of a fibrous
     material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For example, the
     shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
 10           For example, a fiber source, e.g., that is recalcitrant or that has had its
     recalcitrance level reduced, can be sheared, e.g., in a rotary knife cutter, to provide a first
     fibrous material. The first fibrous material is passed through a first screen, e.g., having
     an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), provide a second
     fibrous material. If desired, the fiber source can be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a
 15  shredder. For example, when a paper is used as the fiber source, the paper can be first
     cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to 1/2-inch wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter
     rotating screw shredder, such as those manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an
     alternative to shredding, the paper can be reduced in size by cutting to a desired size
     using a guillotine cutter. For example, the guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper
 20  into sheets that are, e.g., 10 inches wide by 12 inches long.
              In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the passing of the
     resulting first fibrous material through a first screen are performed concurrently. The
     shearing and the passing can also be performed in a batch-type process.
              For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear the fiber
 25  source and screen the first fibrous material. A rotary knife cutter includes a hopper that
     can be loaded with a shredded fiber source prepared by shredding a fiber source.
              In some implementations, the feedstock is physically treated prior to
     saccharification and/or fermentation. Physical treatment processes can include one or
     more of any of those described herein, such as mechanical treatment, chemical treatment,
 30  irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion. Treatment methods can
     be used in combinations of two, three, four, or even all of these technologies (in any
     order). When more than one treatment method is used, the methods can be applied at the
     same time or at different times. Other processes that change a molecular structure of a
     biomass feedstock may also be used, alone or in combination with the processes
 35  disclosed herein.
                                                      39

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
             Mechanical treatments that may be used, and the characteristics of the
     mechanically treated carbohydrate-containing materials, are described in further detail in
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed October 18, 2011, the full disclosure of
     which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
  5
       SONICATION, PYROLYSIS, OXIDATION, STEAM EXPLOSION, HEATING
             If desired, one or more sonication, pyrolysis, oxidative, heating or steam
     explosion processes can be used instead of or in addition to irradiation to reduce or
 10  further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material. For example,
     these processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation. Some of these
     processes are described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff, the full disclosure
     of which is incorporated herein by reference.
             Alternatively, the biomass can be heated after the biomass is treated by one or
 15  more of sonication, pyrolysis, oxidation, radiation and steam explosion processes. For
     example the biomass can be heated after the biomass is irradiated prior to a
     saccharification step. The heating can be created, for example, by IR radiation,
     microwaves, combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, and/or biomass), resistive heating and/or
     inductive coils. This heating can be in a liquid, for example, in water or other water
 20  based solvents. The heat can be applied from at least one side or more than one side, can
     be continuous or periodic and can be for only a portion of the material or all the material.
     The biomass can be heated to temperatures above about 90 deg C in an aqueous liquid
     that may have an acid or a base present. For example, the aqueous biomass slurry can be
     heated to between about 90 and 150 deg C (e.g., between about 105-145 deg C., between
 25  about 110 to 140 deg C., or 115- 135 deg C). The time that the aqueous biomass mixture
     is held at the targeted temperature range is 1 to 12 hours (e.g., 1 to 6 hours, 1 to 4 hours).
     In some instances, the aqueous biomass mixture is alkaline and the pH is between 6 and
     13 (e.g., 8-12, or 8-11).
 30                            INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
             Using the processes described herein, the biomass material can be converted to
     one or more products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials. For example,
     intermediates and products such as organic acids, salts of organic acids, anhydrides,
 35  esters of organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion engines or feedstocks
                                                    40

WO 2014/138550                                                                 PCT/US2014/021632
     for fuel cells can be produced. Systems and processes are described herein that can use
     as feedstock cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are readily available, but
     often can be difficult to process, e.g., municipal waste streams and waste paper streams,
     such as streams that include newspaper, Kraft paper, corrugated paper or mixtures of
  5  these.
              Specific examples of products include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, sugars
     (e.g., glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, fructose, disaccharides,
     oligosaccharides and polysaccharides), alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or dihydric
     alcohols, such as ethanol, n-propanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol or n-butanol),
 10  hydrated or hydrous alcohols (e.g., containing greater than 10%, 20%, 30% or even
     greater than 40% water), biodiesel, organic acids, hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane,
     propane, isobutene, pentane, n-hexane, biodiesel, bio-gasoline and mixtures thereof), co
     products (e.g., proteins, such as cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins),
     and mixtures of any of these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally
 15  in combination with any additives (e.g., fuel additives). Other examples include
     carboxylic acids, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture of carboxylic acids and salts of
     carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g., methyl, ethyl and n-propyl esters),
     ketones (e.g., acetone), aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde), alpha and beta unsaturated acids
     (e.g., acrylic acid) and olefins (e.g., ethylene). Other alcohols and alcohol derivatives
 20  include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3-propanediol, sugar alcohols (e.g.,
     erythritol, glycol, glycerol, sorbitol threitol, arabitol, ribitol, mannitol, dulcitol, fucitol,
     iditol, isomalt, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol and other polyols), and methyl or ethyl esters of
     any of these alcohols. Other products include methyl acrylate, methylmethacrylate, D
     lactic acid, L-lactic acid, pyruvic acid, poly lactic acid, citric acid, formic acid, acetic
 25  acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, succinic acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, 3
     hydroxypropionic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, glutaric
     acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, and mixtures
     thereof, salts of any of these acids, mixtures of any of the acids and their respective salts.
              Any combination of the above products with each other, and/or of the above
 30  products with other products, which other products may be made by the processes
     described herein or otherwise, may be packaged together and sold as products. The
     products may be combined, e.g., mixed, blended or co-dissolved, or may simply be
     packaged or sold together.
              Any of the products or combinations of products described herein may be
 35  sanitized or sterilized prior to selling the products, e.g., after purification or isolation or
                                                     41

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     even after packaging, to neutralize one or more potentially undesirable contaminants that
     could be present in the product(s). Such sanitation can be done with electron
     bombardment, for example, by at a dosage of less than about 20 Mrad, e.g., from about
     0.1 to 15 Mrad, from about 0.5 to 7 Mrad, or from about 1 to 3 Mrad.
  5          The processes described herein can produce various by-product streams useful
     for generating steam and electricity to be used in other parts of the plant (co-generation)
     or sold on the open market. For example, steam generated from burning by-product
     streams can be used in a distillation process. As another example, electricity generated
     from burning by-product streams can be used to power electron beam generators used in
 10  pretreatment.
             The by-products used to generate steam and electricity are derived from a number
     of sources throughout the process. For example, anaerobic digestion of wastewater can
     produce a biogas high in methane and a small amount of waste biomass (sludge). As
     another example, post-saccharification and/or post-distillate solids (e.g., unconverted
 15  lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose remaining from the pretreatment and primary
     processes) can be used, e.g., burned, as a fuel.
             Other intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical products,
     are described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0124583 Al, published May 20, 2010, to
     Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
 20
                                   LIGNIN DERIVED PRODUCTS
             The spent biomass (e.g., spent lignocellulosic material) from lignocellulosic
     processing by the methods described are expected to have a high lignin content and in
 25  addition to being useful for producing energy through combustion in a Co-Generation
     plant, may have uses as other valuable products. For example, the lignin can be used as
     captured as a plastic, or it can be synthetically upgraded to other plastics. In some
     instances, it can also be converted to lignosulfonates, which can be utilized as binders,
     dispersants, emulsifiers or as sequestrants.
 30          When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be utilized in coal
     briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding fertilizers and herbicides,
     as a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and particle board, for binding animal
     feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in linoleum paste and as a soil stabilizer.
                                                   42

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
              When used as a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g.,
     concrete mixes, clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in gypsum
     board.
              When used as an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
  5  asphalt, pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
              When used as a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
     micro-nutrient systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g., for boiler
     and cooling systems.
              For energy production lignin generally has a higher energy content than
 10  holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon than
     homocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of between about
     11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000 BTU per pound of
     holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted into briquettes and pellets
     for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted into pellets by any method
 15  described herein. For a slower burning pellet or briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked,
     such as applying a radiation dose of between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking
     can make a slower burning form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette,
     can be converted to a "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air,
     e.g., at between 400 and 950 'C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the
 20  lignin to maintain structural integrity.
                                       SACCHARIFICATION
              In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily processed the
 25  glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be hydrolyzed to low
     molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a saccharifying agent, e.g., an
     enzyme or acid, a process referred to as saccharification. The low molecular weight
     carbohydrates can then be used, for example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as
     a single cell protein plant, an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an
 30  ethanol manufacturing facility.
              The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining the
     materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
              Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that break down
     biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass, contain or
 35  manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or various small
                                                   43

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These enzymes may be a complex of enzymes
     that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass.
     Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and
     cellobiases (beta-glucosidases).
  5           During saccharification a cellulosic substrate can be initially hydrolyzed by
     endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
     intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase
     to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water
     soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield
 10  glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of
     this process depends on the recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
              Therefore, the treated biomass materials can be saccharified, by combining the
     material and a cellulase enzyme in a fluid medium, e.g., an aqueous solution. In some
     cases, the material is boiled, steeped, or cooked in hot water prior to saccharification, as
 15  described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 Al by Medoff and Masterman, published
     on April 26, 2012, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein.
              The saccharification process can be partially or completely performed in a tank
     (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or 500,000 L) in a manufacturing
     plant, and/or can be partially or completely performed in transit, e.g., in a rail car, tanker
 20  truck, or in a supertanker or the hold of a ship. The time required for complete
     saccharification will depend on the process conditions and the carbohydrate-containing
     material and enzyme used. If saccharification is performed in a manufacturing plant
     under controlled conditions, the cellulose may be substantially entirely converted to
     sugar, e.g., glucose in about 12-96 hours. If saccharification is performed partially or
 25  completely in transit, saccharification may take longer.
              It is generally preferred that the tank contents be mixed during saccharification,
     e.g., using jet mixing as described in International App. No. PCT/US2010/035331, filed
     May 18, 2010, which was published in English as WO 2010/135380 and designated the
     United States, the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
 30           The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of saccharification. Examples of
     surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a TWEEN@ 20 or TWEEN@ 80
     polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or amphoteric surfactants.
              It is generally preferred that the concentration of the sugar solution resulting from
     saccharification be relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or greater than 50, 60, 70, 80,
 35  90 or even greater than 95% by weight. Water may be removed, e.g., by evaporation, to
                                                     44

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     increase the concentration of the sugar solution. This reduces the volume to be shipped,
     and also inhibits microbial growth in the solution.
             Alternatively, sugar solutions of lower concentrations may be used, in which case
     it may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a broad spectrum antibiotic, in
  5  a low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other suitable antibiotics include amphotericin
     B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, hygromycin B, kanamycin,
     neomycin, penicillin, puromycin, streptomycin. For example, antimicrobials from
     Lallemand Biofuels and Distilled Spirits (Montreal, Quebec, Canada) can be used such
     as LACTOSIDE V , BACTENIX@ V300, BACTENIX@ V300SP, ALLPEN
                         TM                                                            TM
 10  SPECIAL, BACTENIX@ V60, BACTENIX@ V60SP, BACTENIX@ V50 and/or
     LACTOSIDE 247TM. Antibiotics will inhibit growth of microorganisms during transport
     and storage, and can be used at appropriate concentrations, e.g., between 15 and 1000
     ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm, or between 50 and 150 ppm. If desired,
     an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar concentration is relatively high.
 15  Alternatively, other additives with anti-microbial of preservative properties may be used.
     Preferably the antimicrobial additive(s) are food-grade.
             A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by limiting the amount
     of water added to the carbohydrate-containing material with the enzyme. The
     concentration can be controlled, e.g., by controlling how much saccharification takes
 20  place. For example, concentration can be increased by adding more carbohydrate
     containing material to the solution. In order to keep the sugar that is being produced in
     solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one of those discussed above. Solubility can
     also be increased by increasing the temperature of the solution. For example, the
     solution can be maintained at a temperature of 40-50'C, 60-80'C, or even higher.
 25
                                    SACCHARIFYING AGENTS
             Suitable cellulolytic enzymes include cellulases from species in the genera
     Bacillus, Coprinus, Myceliophthora, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicillium,
 30  Aspergillus, Pseudomonas, Humicola, Fusarium, Thielavia,Acremonium,
     Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, especially those produced by a strain selected from the
     species Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), Humicola insolens (reclassified as
     Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,435,307), Coprinus cinereus,
     Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora thermophila, Meripilus giganteus, Thielavia
 35  terrestris,Acremonium sp. (including, but not limited to, A. persicinum,A. acremonium,
                                                  45

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     A. brachypenium,A. dichromosporum,A. obclavatum, A. pinkertoniae, A. roseogriseum,
     A. incoloratum, and A. furatum). Preferred strains include Humicola insolens DSM
     1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
     Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
  5  265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium acremonium AHU 9519,
     Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
     dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium
     pinkertoniae CBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
     incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic
 10  enzymes may also be obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of
     Chrysosporium lucknowense. Additional strains that can be used include, but are not
     limited to, Trichoderma (particularly T. viride, T. reesei, and T. koningii), alkalophilic
     Bacillus (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,844,890 and EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), and
     Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162).
 15            In addition to or in combination to enzymes, acids, bases and other chemicals
     (e.g., oxidants) can be utilized to saccharify lignocellulosic and cellulosic materials.
     These can be used in any combination or sequence (e.g., before, after and/or during
     addition of an enzyme). For example strong mineral acids can be utilized (e.g. HCl,
     H 2 SO 4 , H 3PO 4) and strong bases (e.g., NaOH, KOH).
 20
                                                  SUGARS
               In the processes described herein, for example after saccharification, sugars (e.g.,
     glucose and xylose) can be isolated and/or purified. For example sugars can be isolated
 25  and/or purified by precipitation, crystallization, chromatography (e.g., simulated moving
     bed chromatography, high pressure chromatography), electrodialysis, centrifugation,
     extraction, any other isolation method known in the art, and combinations thereof.
           HYDROGENATION AND OTHER CHEMICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
 30
               The processes described herein can include hydrogenation. For example glucose
     and xylose can be hydrogenated to sorbitol and xylitol respectively. Hydrogenation can
     be accomplished by use of a catalyst (e.g., Pt/gamma-A1203, Ru/C, Raney Nickel, or
     other catalysts know in the art) in combination with H 2 under high pressure (e.g., 10 to
 35  12000 psi). Other types of chemical transformation of the products from the processes
                                                    46

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     described herein can be used, for example production of organic sugar derived products
     (e.g., furfural and furfural-derived products). Chemical transformations of sugar derived
     products are described in USSN 13/934,704 filed July 3, 2013, the entire disclosure of
     which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
  5
                                          FERMENTATION
              Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for fermentation or
     conversion of sugar(s) to alcohol(s). Other microorganisms are discussed below. The
 10  optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. For example, the optimum pH for
     yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5
     to 6. Typical fermentation times are about 24 to 168 hours (e.g., 24 to 96 hrs) with
     temperatures in the range of 20'C to 40'C (e.g., 260 C to 40'C), however thermophilic
     microorganisms prefer higher temperatures.
 15           In some embodiments, e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at least a portion
     of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen, e.g., under a blanket of an
     inert gas such as N 2, Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof. Additionally, the mixture may
     have a constant purge of an inert gas flowing through the tank during part of or all of the
     fermentation. In some cases, anaerobic condition, can be achieved or maintained by
 20  carbon dioxide production during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is needed.
              In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can be
     interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a product
     (e.g., ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include sugar and carbohydrates
     in high concentrations. The sugars and carbohydrates can be isolated via any means
 25  known in the art. These intermediate fermentation products can be used in preparation of
     food for human or animal consumption. Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate
     fermentation products can be ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory
     mill to produce a flour-like substance. Jet mixing may be used during fermentation, and
     in some cases saccharification and fermentation are performed in the same tank.
 30           Nutrients for the microorganisms may be added during saccharification and/or
     fermentation, for example the food-based nutrient packages described in U.S. Pat. App.
     Pub. 2012/0052536, filed July 15, 2011, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference. In some cases, the food-based nutrient source is selected from the
     group consisting of grains, vegetables, residues of grains, residues of vegetables, residues
 35  of meat (e.g., stock, extract, bouillon or renderings), and mixtures thereof. For example,
                                                   47

WO 2014/138550                                                                  PCT/US2014/021632
     the nutrient source may be selected from the group consisting of wheat, oats, barley,
     soybeans, peas, legumes, potatoes, corn, rice bran, corn meal, wheat bran, meat product
     residues, and mixtures thereof.
             "Fermentation" includes the methods and products that are disclosed in
  5  application Nos. PCT/US2012/71093 published June 27, 2013, PCT/US2012/71907
     published June 27, 2012, and PCT/US2012/71083 published June 27, 2012 the contents
     of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
             Mobile fermenters can be utilized, as described in International App. No.
     PCT/US2007/074028 (which was filed July 20, 2007, was published in English as WO
 10  2008/011598 and designated the United States) and has a US issued Patent No.
     8,318,453, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety. Similarly, the
     saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further, saccharification and/or fermentation
     may be performed in part or entirely during transit.
 15                                 FERMENTATION AGENTS
             The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be naturally-occurring
     microorganisms and/or engineered microorganisms. For example, the microorganism
     can be a bacterium (including, but not limited to, e.g., a cellulolytic bacterium), a fungus,
 20  (including, but not limited to, e.g., a yeast), a plant, a protist, e.g., a protozoa or a fungus
     like protest (including, but not limited to, e.g., a slime mold), or an alga. When the
     organisms are compatible, mixtures of organisms can be utilized.
             Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert carbohydrates,
     such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, oligosaccharides or
 25  polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting microorganisms include strains
     of the genus Sacchromyces spp. (including, but not limited to, S. cerevisiae (baker's
     yeast), S. distaticus, S. uvarum), the genus Kluyveromyces, (including, but not limited to,
     K. marxianus, K.fragilis), the genus Candida (including, but not limited to, C.
     pseudotropicalis,and C. brassicae), Pichia stipitis (a relative of Candida shehatae), the
 30  genus Clavispora (including, but not limited to, C. lusitaniae and C. opuntiae), the genus
     Pachysolen (including, but not limited to, P. tannophilus), the genus Bretannomyces
     (including, but not limited to, e.g., B. clausenii (Philippidis, G. P., 1996, Cellulose
     bioconversion technology, in Handbook on Bioethanol: Production and Utilization,
     Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis, Washington, DC, 179-212)). Other suitable
 35  microorganisms include, for example, Zymomonas mobilis, Clostridiumspp. (including,
                                                    48

WO 2014/138550                                                            PCT/US2014/021632
      but not limited to, C. thermocellum (Philippidis, 1996, supra), C.
      saccharobutylacetonicum,C. tyrobutyricum C. saccharobutylicum,C. Puniceum, C.
      beijernckii, and C. acetobutylicum), Moniliella spp. (including but not limited to M.
     pollinis,M. tomentosa, M. madida, M. nigrescens,M. oedocephali, M. megachiliensis),
  5   Yarrowia lipolytica,Aureobasidium sp., Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis,
      Trichosporon sp., Moniliellaacetoabutanssp., Typhula variabilis, Candidamagnoliae,
      Ustilaginomycetes sp., Pseudozyma tsukubaensis, yeast species of genera
      Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula and Pichia, and fungi of the dematioid
      genus Torula (e.g., T.corallina).
 10           Additional microorganisms include the Lactobacillus group. Examples include
      Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii, Lactobacillus
     plantarum, Lactobacilluscoryniformis, e.g., Lactobacilluscoryniformis subspecies
      torquens, Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillusbrevis. Other microorganisms include
      Pediococuspenosaceus,Rhizopus oryzae.
 15           Several organisms, such as bacteria, yeasts and fungi, can be utilized to ferment
      biomass derived products such as sugars and alcohols to succinic acid and similar
      products. For example, organisms can be selected from; Actinobacillus succinogenes,
      Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens,.Mannheimia succiniciproducens,Ruminococcus
     flaverfiaciens, Ruminococcus albus, Fibrobacter succinogenes, Bacteroidesfragilis,
 20   Bacteroides runinicola, Bacteroidesamylophilus,Bacteriodes succinogenes,
      Mannheimia succiniciproducens,Corvnebacterium glutamicum, Aspergillus niger,
      Aspergillusfumigatus, Byssochlamys nivea, Lentinus degener, Paeciioniycesva rioti,
      Penicillium viniferum, Saccharomyces cerievisiae, Enterococcusfaecali, Prevotella
      ruminicolas,Debarvomyces hansenii, Candida catenulata VKM Y-5. C. mycoderma
 25   VKM Y-240, C. rugosa VKM Y-67, C. paludigena VKM Y-2443, C. utilis VKM Y-74,
      C. utilis 766, C. zeylanoides V KM Y-6, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-14, C. zeylanoides V KM
      Y-2324, C zeylanoides VKM Y-1543, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-2595, C. valida VKM Y
      934, Kluyveromnyces wickerhanii VKM Y-589, Pichiaanomnala VKM Y- 118, P. bessevi
      VKM Y-2084. P. inedia VKM Y-1381, P. guilliermondii -P-4, P. guilliermondii 916,
 30   P. inositovoraVKM Y-2494, Saccharomyces cerevisiae VKM Y-381, Torulopsis
      candida 127, T candida 420, Yarrowia lipolytica 12a, Y lipolytica VKM Y-4'7, Y
      lipolytica 69, Y lipolytica V KM Y-57, Y lipolytica 212, Y lipolytica 374/4, Y lipolytica
      585, Y lipolytica 695, Y lipolytica 704, and mixtures of these organisms.
              Many such microbial strains are publicly available, either commercially or
 35   through depositories such as the ATCC (American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
                                                  49

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     Virginia, USA), the NRRL (Agricultural Research Sevice Culture Collection, Peoria,
     Illinois, USA), or the DSMZ (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
     Zellkulturen GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany), to name a few.
              Commercially available yeasts include, for example, RED STAR@/Lesaffre
  5  Ethanol Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI* (available from
     Fleischmann's Yeast, a division of Bums Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART*
     (Lallemand Biofuels and Distilled Spirits, Canada), EAGLE C6 FUELTM or C6 FUELTM
     (available from Lallemand Biofuels and Distilled Spirits, Canada), GERT STRAND
     (available from Gert Strand AB, Sweden) and FERMOL (available from DSM
 10  Specialties).
                                             DISTILLATION
              After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a
 15  "beer column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and
     residual solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol
     and can be fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol
     and water from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using
     vapor-phase molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of
 20  a three-effect evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for
     this first effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried
     in a rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
     fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the
     evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a
 25  small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling
     compounds.
                         HYDROCARBON-CONTAINING MATERIALS
 30           In other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described herein,
     hydrocarbon-containing materials can be processed. Any process described herein can be
     used to treat any hydrocarbon-containing material herein described. "Hydrocarbon
     containing materials," as used herein, is meant to include oil sands, oil shale, tar sands,
     coal dust, coal slurry, bitumen, various types of coal, and other naturally-occurring and
 35  synthetic materials that include both hydrocarbon components and solid matter. The
                                                       50

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     solid matter can include rock, sand, clay, stone, silt, drilling slurry, or other solid organic
     and/or inorganic matter. The term can also include waste products such as drilling waste
     and by-products, refining waste and by-products, or other waste products containing
     hydrocarbon components, such as asphalt shingling and covering, asphalt pavement, etc.
  5           In yet other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described herein,
     wood and wood containing produces can be processed. For example lumber products can
     be processed, e.g. boards, sheets, laminates, beams, particle boards, composites, rough
     cut wood, soft wood and hard wood. In addition cut trees, bushes, wood chips, saw dust,
     roots, bark, stumps, decomposed wood and other wood containing biomass material can
 10  be processed.
                                       CONVEYING SYSTEMS
              Various conveying systems can be used to convey the biomass material, for
 15  example, as discussed, to a vault, and under an electron beam in a vault. Exemplary
     conveyors are belt conveyors, pneumatic conveyors, screw conveyors, carts, trains, trains
     or carts on rails, elevators, front loaders, backhoes, cranes, various scrapers and shovels,
     trucks, and throwing devices can be used. For example, vibratory conveyors can be used
     in various processes described herein. Vibratory conveyors are described in
 20  PCT/US2013/64289 filed October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     by reference herein.
              Vibratory conveyors are particularly useful for spreading the material and
     producing a uniform layer on the conveyor trough surface. For example the initial
     feedstock can form a pile of material that can be at least four feet high (e.g., at least
 25  about 3 feet, at least about 2 feet, at least about 1 foot, at least about 6 inches, at least
     about 5 inches, at least about, 4 inches, at least about 3 inches, at least about 2 inches, at
     least about 1 inch, at least about     inch) and spans less than the width of the conveyor
     (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 20%, less than about 30%, less than about
     40%, less than about 50%, less than about 60%, less than about 70%, less than about
 30  80%, less than about 90%, less than about 95%, less than about 99%). The vibratory
     conveyor can spread the material to span the entire width of the conveyor trough and
     have a uniform thickness, preferably as discussed above. In some cases, an additional
     spreading method can be useful. For example, a spreader such as a broadcast spreader, a
     drop spreader (e.g., a CHRISTY SPREADER') or combinations thereof can be used to
 35  drop (e.g., place, pour, spill and/or sprinkle) the feedstock over a wide area. Optionally,
                                                     51

WO 2014/138550                                                                   PCT/US2014/021632
     the spreader can deliver the biomass as a wide shower or curtain onto the vibratory
     conveyor. Additionally, a second conveyor, upstream from the first conveyor (e.g., the
     first conveyor is used in the irradiation of the feedstock), can drop biomass onto the first
     conveyor, where the second conveyor can have a width transverse to the direction of
  5  conveying smaller than the first conveyor. In particular, when the second conveyor is a
     vibratory conveyor, the feedstock is spread by the action of the second and first
     conveyor. In some optional embodiments, the second conveyor ends in a bias cross cut
     discharge (e.g., a bias cut with a ratio of 4:1) so that the material can be dropped as a
     wide curtain (e.g., wider than the width of the second conveyor) onto the first conveyor.
 10  The initial drop area of the biomass by the spreader (e.g., broadcast spreader, drop
     spreader, conveyor, or cross cut vibratory conveyor) can span the entire width of the first
     vibratory conveyor, or it can span part of this width. Once dropped onto the conveyor,
     the material is spread even more uniformly by the vibrations of the conveyor so that,
     preferably, the entire width of the conveyor is covered with a uniform layer of biomass.
 15  In some embodiments combinations of spreaders can be used. Some methods of
     spreading a feed stock are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,153,533, filed July 23, 2002
     and published December 26, 2006, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
     by reference.
              Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through an
 20  electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material can be conveyed at
     rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at least 5
     ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, at least 20 ft/min, at least 25 ft/min, at least
     30 ft/min, at least 40 ft/min, at least 50 ft/min, at least 60 ft/min, at least 70 ft/min, at
     least 80 ft/min, at least 90 ft/min. The rate of conveying is related to the beam current
 25  and targeted irradiation dose, for example, for a         inch thick biomass spread over a 5.5
     foot wide conveyor and 100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a
     useful irradiation dosage (e.g. about 10 Mrad for a single pass), at 50 mA the conveyor
     can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the same irradiation dosage.
              The rate at which material can be conveyed depends on the shape and mass of the
 30  material being conveyed, and the desired amount. Flowing materials e.g., particulate
     materials, are particularly amenable to conveying with vibratory conveyors. Conveying
     speeds can, for example be, at least 100 lb/hr (e.g., at least 500 lb/hr, at least 1000 lb/hr,
     at least 2000 lb/hr, at least 3000 lb/hr, at least 4000 lb/hr, at least 5000 lb/hr, at least
     10,000 lb/hr, at least 15, 000 lb/hr, or even at least 25,000 lb/hr). Some typical conveying
 35  speeds can be between about 1000 and 10,000 lb/hr, (e.g., between about 1000 lb/hr and
                                                      52

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     8000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and 6000 lb/hr,
     between about 2000 and 50001b/hr, between about 2000 and 4500 lb/hr, between about
     1500 and 5000 lb/hr, between about 3000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about 3000 and 6000
     lb/hr, between about 4000 and 6000 lb/hr and between about 4000 and 5000 lb/hr).
  5  Typical conveying speeds depend on the density of the material. For example, for a
     biomass with a density of about 35 lb/ft 3, and a conveying speed of about 5000 lb/hr, the
     material is conveyed at a rate of about 143 ft3/hr, if the material is  " thick and is in a
     trough 5.5 ft wide, the material is conveyed at a rate of about 1250 ft/hr (about 21
     ft/min). Rates of conveying the material can therefore vary greatly. Preferably, for
 10  example, a     " thick layer of biomass, is conveyed at speeds of between about 5 and 100
     ft/min (e.g. between about 5 and 100 ft/min, between about 6 and 100 ft/min, between
     about 7 and 100 ft/min, between about 8 and 100 ft/min, between about 9 and 100 ft/min,
     between about 10 and 100 ft/min, between about 11 and 100 ft/min, between about 12
     and 100 ft/min, between about 13 and 100 ft/min, between about 14 and 100 ft/min,
 15  between about 15 and 100 ft/min, between about 20 and 100 ft/min, between about 30
     and 100 ft/min, between about 40 and 100 ft/min, between about 2 and 60 ft/min,
     between about 3 and 60 ft/min, between about 5 and 60 ft/min, between about 6 and 60
     ft/min, between about 7 and 60 ft/min, between about 8 and 60 ft/min, between about 9
     and 60 ft/min, between about 10 and 60 ft/min, between about 15 and 60 ft/min, between
 20  about 20 and 60 ft/min, between about 30 and 60 ft/min, between about 40 and 60 ft/min,
     between about 2 and 50 ft/min, between about 3 and 50 ft/min, between about 5 and 50
     ft/min, between about 6 and 50 ft/min, between about 7 and 50 ft/min, between about 8
     and 50 ft/min, between about 9 and 50 ft/min, between about 10 and 50 ft/min, between
     about 15 and 50 ft/min, between about 20 and 50 ft/min, between about 30 and 50 ft/min,
 25  between about 40 and 50 ft/min). It is preferable that the material be conveyed at a
     constant rate, for example, to help maintain a constant irradiation of the material as it
     passes under the electron beam (e.g., shower, field).
             The vibratory conveyors described can include screens used for sieving and
     sorting materials. Port openings on the side or bottom of the troughs can be used for
 30  sorting, selecting or removing specific materials, for example, by size or shape. Some
     conveyors have counterbalances to reduce the dynamic forces on the support structure.
     Some vibratory conveyors are configured as spiral elevators, are designed to curve
     around surfaces and/or are designed to drop material from one conveyor to another (e.g.,
     in a step, cascade or as a series of steps or a stair). Along with conveying materials
 35  conveyors can be used, by themselves or coupled with other equipment or systems, for
                                                    53

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     screening, separating, sorting, classifying, distributing, sizing, inspection, picking, metal
     removing, freezing, blending, mixing, orienting, heating, cooking, drying, dewatering,
     cleaning, washing, leaching, quenching, coating, de-dusting and/or feeding. The
     conveyors can also include covers (e.g., dust-tight covers), side discharge gates, bottom
  5  discharge gates, special liners (e.g., anti-stick, stainless steel, rubber, custom steal, and or
     grooved), divided troughs, quench pools, screens, perforated plates, detectors (e.g., metal
     detectors), high temperature designs, food grade designs, heaters, dryers and or coolers.
     In addition, the trough can be of various shapes, for example, flat bottomed, vee shaped
     bottom, flanged at the top, curved bottom, flat with ridges in any direction, tubular, half
 10  pipe, covered or any combinations of these. In particular, the conveyors can be coupled
     with an irradiation systems and/or equipment.
             The conveyors (e.g., vibratory conveyor) can be made of corrosion resistant
     materials. The conveyors can utilize structural materials that include stainless steel (e.g.,
     304, 316 stainless steel, HASTELLOY@ ALLOYS and INCONEL@ Alloys). For
 15  example, HASTELLOY@ Corrosion-Resistant alloys from Hynes (Kokomo, Indiana,
     USA) such as HASTELLOY@ B-3@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ HYBRID-BC1@
     ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-4 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-22@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ C-22HS@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-276 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@
     C-2000@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-30@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-35@ ALLOY,
 20  HASTELLOY@ N ALLOY and HASTELLOY@ ULTIMET@ alloy.
             The vibratory conveyors can include non-stick release coatings, for example,
     TUFFLONTM (Dupont, Delaware, USA). The vibratory conveyors can also include
     corrosion resistant coatings. For example, coatings that can be supplied from Metal
     Coatings Corp (Houston, Texas, USA) and others such as Fluoropolymer, XYLAN@,
 25  Molybdenum Disulfide, Epoxy Phenolic, Phosphate- ferrous metal coating,
     Polyurethane- high gloss topcoat for epoxy, inorganic zinc, Poly Tetrafluoro ethylene,
     PPS/RYTON@, fluorinated ethylene propylene, PVDF/DYKOR@, ECTFE/HALAR@
     and Ceramic Epoxy Coating. The coatings can improve resistance to process gases (e.g.,
     ozone), chemical corrosion, pitting corrosion, galling corrosion and oxidation.
 30          Optionally, in addition to the conveying systems described herein, one or more
     other conveying systems can be enclosed. When using an enclosure, the enclosed
     conveyor can also be purged with an inert gas so as to maintain an atmosphere at a
     reduced oxygen level. Keeping oxygen levels low avoids the formation of ozone which
     in some instances is undesirable due to its reactive and toxic nature. For example, the
 35  oxygen can be less than about 20% (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 1%, less
                                                     54

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
     than about 0.1%, less than about 0.01%, or even less than about 0.001% oxygen).
     Purging can be done with an inert gas including, but not limited to, nitrogen, argon,
     helium or carbon dioxide. This can be supplied, for example, from a boil off of a liquid
     source (e.g., liquid nitrogen or helium), generated or separated from air in situ, or
  5  supplied from tanks. The inert gas can be recirculated and any residual oxygen can be
     removed using a catalyst, such as a copper catalyst bed. Alternatively, combinations of
     purging, recirculating and oxygen removal can be done to keep the oxygen levels low.
              The enclosed conveyor can also be purged with a reactive gas that can react with
     the biomass. This can be done before, during or after the irradiation process. The
 10  reactive gas can be, but is not limited to, nitrous oxide, ammonia, oxygen, ozone,
     hydrocarbons, aromatic compounds, amides, peroxides, azides, halides, oxyhalides,
     phosphides, phosphines, arsines, sulfides, thiols, boranes and/or hydrides. The reactive
     gas can be activated in the enclosure, e.g., by irradiation (e.g., electron beam, UV
     irradiation, microwave irradiation, heating, IR radiation), so that it reacts with the
 15  biomass. The biomass itself can be activated, for example by irradiation. Preferably the
     biomass is activated by the electron beam, to produce radicals which then react with the
     activated or unactivated reactive gas, e.g., by radical coupling or quenching.
              Purging gases supplied to an enclosed conveyor can also be cooled, for example
     below about 25'C, below about 00 C, below about -40'C, below about -80'C, below
 20  about -120'C. For example, the gas can be boiled off from a compressed gas such as
     liquid nitrogen or sublimed from solid carbon dioxide. As an alternative example, the
     gas can be cooled by a chiller or part of or the entire conveyor can be cooled.
                                      OTHER EMBODIMENTS
 25
              Any material, processes or processed materials discussed herein can be used to
     make products and/or intermediates such as composites, fillers, binders, plastic additives,
     adsorbents and controlled release agents. The methods can include densification, for
     example, by applying pressure and heat to the materials. For example composites can be
 30  made by combining fibrous materials with a resin or polymer. For example radiation
     cross-linkable resin, e.g., a thermoplastic resin can be combined with a fibrous material
     to provide a fibrous material/cross-linkable resin combination. Such materials can be, for
     example, useful as building materials, protective sheets, containers and other structural
     materials (e.g., molded and/or extruded products). Absorbents can be, for example, in the
 35  form of pellets, chips, fibers and/or sheets. Adsorbents can be used, for example, as pet
                                                    55

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     bedding, packaging material or in pollution control systems. Controlled release matrices
     can also be the form of, for example, pellets, chips, fibers and or sheets. The controlled
     release matrices can, for example, be used to release drugs, biocides, fragrances. For
     example, composites, absorbents and control release agents and their uses are described
  5  in International Serial No. PCT/US2006/010648, filed March 23, 2006, and U.S. Patent
     No. 8,074,910 filed November 22, 2011, the entire disclosures of which are herein
     incorporated by reference.
              In some instances the biomass material is treated at a first level to reduce
     recalcitrance, e.g., utilizing accelerated electrons, to selectively release one or more
 10  sugars (e.g., xylose). The biomass can then be treated to a second level to release one or
     more other sugars (e.g., glucose). Optionally the biomass can be dried between
     treatments. The treatments can include applying chemical and biochemical treatments to
     release the sugars. For example, a biomass material can be treated to a level of less than
     about 20 Mrad (e.g., less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about 5
 15  Mrad, less than about 2 Mrad) and then treated with a solution of sulfuric acid,
     containing less than 10% sulfuric acid (e.g., less than about 9%, less than about 8%, less
     than about 7%, less than about 6%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than
     about 3%, less than about 2%, less than about 1%, less than about 0.75%, less than about
     0.50 %, less than about 0.25%) to release xylose. Xylose, for example that is released
 20  into solution, can be separated from solids and optionally the solids washed with a
     solvent/solution (e.g., with water and/or acidified water). Optionally, the solids can be
     dried, for example in air and/or under vacuum optionally with heating (e.g., below about
     150 deg C, below about 120 deg C) to a water content below about 25 wt.% (below
     about 20 wt.%, below about 15 wt.%, below about 10 wt.%, below about 5 wt.%). The
 25  solids can then be treated with a level of less than about 30 Mrad (e.g., less than about 25
     Mrad, less than about 20 Mrad, less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less
     than about 5 Mrad, less than about 1 Mrad or even not at all) and then treated with an
     enzyme (e.g., a cellulase) to release glucose. The glucose (e.g., glucose in solution) can
     be separated from the remaining solids. The solids can then be further processed, for
 30  example utilized to make energy or other products (e.g., lignin derived products).
                          FLAVORS, FRAGRANCES AND COLORANTS
              Any of the products and/or intermediates described herein, for example, produced
 35  by the processes, systems and/or equipment described herein, can be combined with
                                                    56

WO 2014/138550                                                                PCT/US2014/021632
     flavors, fragrances, colorants and/or mixtures of these. For example, any one or more of
     (optionally along with flavors, fragrances and/or colorants) sugars, organic acids, fuels,
     polyols, such as sugar alcohols, biomass, fibers and composites can be combined with
     (e.g., formulated, mixed or reacted) or used to make other products. For example, one or
  5  more such product can be used to make soaps, detergents, candies, drinks (e.g., cola,
     wine, beer, liquors such as gin or vodka, sports drinks, coffees, teas), syrups,
     pharmaceuticals, adhesives, sheets (e.g., woven, none woven, filters, tissues) and/or
     composites (e.g., boards). For example, one or more such product can be combined with
     herbs, flowers, petals, spices, vitamins, potpourri, or candles. For example, the
 10  formulated, mixed or reacted combinations can have flavors/fragrances of grapefruit,
     orange, apple, raspberry, banana, lettuce, celery, cinnamon, chocolate, vanilla,
     peppermint, mint, onion, garlic, pepper, saffron, ginger, milk, wine, beer, tea, lean beef,
     fish, clams, olive oil, coconut fat, pork fat, butter fat, beef bouillon, legume, potatoes,
     marmalade, ham, coffee and cheeses.
 15           Flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added in any amount, such as between
     about 0.001 wt.% to about 30 wt.%, e.g., between about 0.01 to about 20, between about
     0.05 to about 10, or between about 0.1 wt.% to about 5 wt.%. These can be formulated,
     mixed and or reacted (e.g., with any one of more product or intermediate described
     herein) by any means and in any order or sequence (e.g., agitated, mixed, emulsified,
 20  gelled, infused, heated, sonicated, and/or suspended). Fillers, binders, emulsifier,
     antioxidants can also be utilized, for example protein gels, starches and silica.
              In one embodiment the flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added to the
     biomass immediately after the biomass is irradiated such that the reactive sites created by
     the irradiation may react with reactive compatible sites of the flavors, fragrances, and
 25  colorants.
              The flavors, fragrances and colorants can be natural and/or synthetic materials.
     These materials can be one or more of a compound, a composition or mixtures of these
     (e.g., a formulated or natural composition of several compounds). Optionally the flavors,
     fragrances, antioxidants and colorants can be derived biologically, for example, from a
 30  fermentation process (e.g., fermentation of saccharified materials as described herein).
     Alternatively, or additionally these flavors, fragrances and colorants can be harvested
     from a whole organism (e.g., plant, fungus, animal, bacteria or yeast) or a part of an
     organism. The organism can be collected and or extracted to provide color, flavors,
     fragrances and/or antioxidant by any means including utilizing the methods, systems and
 35  equipment described herein, hot water extraction, supercritical fluid extraction, chemical
                                                    57

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     extraction (e.g., solvent or reactive extraction including acids and bases), mechanical
     extraction (e.g., pressing, comminuting, filtering), utilizing an enzyme, utilizing a
     bacteria such as to break down a starting material, and combinations of these methods.
     The compounds can be derived by a chemical reaction, for example, the combination of
  5  a sugar (e.g., as produced as described herein) with an amino acid (Maillard reaction).
     The flavor, fragrance, antioxidant and/or colorant can be an intermediate and or product
     produced by the methods, equipment or systems described herein, for example and ester
     and a lignin derived product.
             Some examples of flavor, fragrances or colorants are polyphenols. Polyphenols
 10  are pigments responsible for the red, purple and blue colorants of many fruits,
     vegetables, cereal grains, and flowers. Polyphenols also can have antioxidant properties
     and often have a bitter taste. The antioxidant properties make these important
     preservatives. On class of polyphenols are the flavonoids, such as Anthocyanidines,
     flavanonols, flavan-3-ols, s, flavanones and flavanonols.     Other phenolic compounds
 15  that can be used include phenolic acids and their esters, such as chlorogenic acid and
     polymeric tannins.
             Among the colorants inorganic compounds, minerals or organic compounds can
     be used, for example titanium dioxide, zinc oxide, aluminum oxide, cadmium yellow
     (E.g., CdS), cadmium orange (e.g., CdS with some Se), alizarin crimson (e.g., synthetic
 20  or non-synthetic rose madder), ultramarine (e.g., synthetic ultramarine, natural
     ultramarine, synthetic ultramarine violet ), cobalt blue, cobalt yellow, cobalt green,
     viridian (e.g., hydrated chromium(III)oxide), chalcophylite, conichalcite, cornubite,
     cornwallite and liroconite. Black pigments such as carbon black and self-dispersed
     blacks may be used.
 25          Some flavors and fragrances that can be utilized include ACALEA TBHQ,
     ACET C-6, ALLYL AMYL GLYCOLATE, ALPHA TERPINEOL, AMBRETTOLIDE,
     AMBRINOL 95, ANDRANE, APHERMATE, APPLELIDE, BACDANOL@,
     BERGAMAL, BETA IONONE EPOXIDE, BETA NAPHTHYL ISO-BUTYL ETHER,
     BICYCLONONALACTONE, BORNAFIX@, CANTHOXAL, CASHMERAN@,
 30  CASHMERAN@ VELVET, CASSIFFIX@, CEDRAFIX, CEDRAMBER@, CEDRYL
     ACETATE, CELESTOLIDE, CINNAMALVA, CITRAL DIMETHYL ACETATE,
     CITROLATETM, CITRONELLOL 700, CITRONELLOL 950, CITRONELLOL
     COEUR, CITRONELLYL ACETATE, CITRONELLYL ACETATE PURE,
     CITRONELLYL FORMATE, CLARYCET, CLONAL, CONIFERAN, CONIFERAN
 35  PURE, CORTEX ALDEHYDE 50% PEOMOSA, CYCLABUTE, CYCLACET@,
                                                    58

WO 2014/138550                                         PCT/US2014/021632
     CYCLAPROP@, CYCLEMAXTM, CYCLOHEXYL ETHYL ACETATE, DAMASCOL,
     DELTA DAMASCONE, DIHYDRO CYCLACET, DIHYDRO MYRCENOL,
     DIHYDRO TERPINEOL, DIHYDRO TERPINYL ACETATE, DIMETHYL
     CYCLORMOL, DIMETHYL OCTANOL PQ, DIMYRCETOL, DIOLA, DIPENTENE,
  5  DULCINYL@ RECRYSTALLIZED, ETHYL-3-PHENYL GLYCIDATE,
     FLEURAMONE, FLEURANIL, FLORAL SUPER, FLORALOZONE, FLORIFFOL,
     FRAISTONE, FRUCTONE, GALAXOLIDE@ 50, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 BB,
     GALAXOLIDE@ 50 IPM, GALAXOLIDE@ UNDILUTED, GALBASCONE,
     GERALDEHYDE, GERANIOL 5020, GERANIOL 600 TYPE, GERANIOL 950,
 10  GERANIOL 980 (PURE), GERANIOL CFT COEUR, GERANIOL COEUR,
     GERANYL ACETATE COEUR, GERANYL ACETATE, PURE, GERANYL
     FORMATE, GRISALVA, GUAIYL ACETATE, HELIONALTM, HERBAC,
     HERBALIMETM, HEXADECANOLIDE, HEXALON, HEXENYL SALICYLATE CIS
     3-, HYACINTH BODY, HYACINTH BODY NO. 3, HYDRATROPIC
 15  ALDEHYDE.DMA, HYDROXYOL, INDOLAROME, INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE,
     INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE SPECIAL, IONONE ALPHA, IONONE BETA, ISO
     CYCLO CITRAL, ISO CYCLO GERANIOL, ISO E SUPER@, ISOBUTYL
     QUINOLINE, JASMAL,, JESSEMAL@, KHARISMAL@, KHARISMAL@ SUPER,
     KHUSINIL, KOAVONE@, KOHINOOL@, LIFFAROMETM, LIMOXAL,
 20  LINDENOLTM, LYRAL@, LYRAME SUPER, MANDARIN ALD 10% TRI ETH,
     CITR, MARITIMA, MCK CHINESE, MEIJIFFTM, MELAFLEUR, MELOZONE,
     METHYL ANTHRANILATE, METHYL IONONE ALPHA EXTRA, METHYL
     IONONE GAMMA A, METHYL IONONE GAMMA COEUR, METHYL IONONE
     GAMMA PURE, METHYL LAVENDER KETONE, MONTAVERDI@, MUGUESIA,
 25  MUGUET ALDEHYDE 50, MUSK Z4, MYRAC ALDEHYDE, MYRCENYL
     ACETATE, NECTARATETM, NEROL 900, NERYL ACETATE, OCIMENE,
     OCTACETAL, ORANGE FLOWER ETHER, ORIVONE, ORRINIFF 25%,
     OXASPIRANE, OZOFLEUR, PAMPLEFLEUR@, PEOMOSA, PHENOXANOL@,
     PICONIA, PRECYCLEMONE B, PRENYL ACETATE, PRISMANTOL, RESEDA
 30  BODY, ROSALVA, ROSAMUSK, SANJINOL, SANTALIFFTM, SYVERTAL,
     TERPINEOL,TERPINOLENE 20, TERPINOLENE 90 PQ, TERPINOLENE RECT.,
     TERPINYL ACETATE, TERPINYL ACETATE JAX, TETRAHYDRO, MUGUOL@,
     TETRAHYDRO MYRCENOL, TETRAMERAN, TIMBERSILKTM, TOBACAROL,
     TRIMOFIX@ 0 TT, TRIPLAL@, TRISAMBER@, VANORIS, VERDOXTM,
 35  VERDOXTM HC, VERTENEX@, VERTENEX@ HC, VERTOFIX@ COEUR,
                                      59

WO 2014/138550                                           PCT/US2014/021632
     VERTOLIFF, VERTOLIFF ISO, VIOLIFF, VIVALDIE, ZENOLIDE, ABS INDIA 75
     PCT MIGLYOL, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT DPG, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT TEC,
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, ABSOLUTE INDIA, ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB,
     ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, CONCENTRATE PG, TINCTURE 20 PCT, AMBERGRIS,
  5  AMBRETTE ABSOLUTE, AMBRETTE SEED OIL, ARMOISE OIL 70 PCT
     THUYONE, BASIL ABSOLUTE GRAND VERT, BASIL GRAND VERT ABS MD,
     BASIL OIL GRAND VERT, BASIL OIL VERVEINA, BASIL OIL VIETNAM, BAY
     OIL TERPENELESS, BEESWAX ABS N G, BEESWAX ABSOLUTE, BENZOIN
     RESINOID SIAM, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50 PCT DPG, BENZOIN RESINOID
 10  SIAM 50 PCT PG, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 70.5 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT
     BUD ABS 65 PCT PG, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MD 37 PCT TEC,
     BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MIGLYOL, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABSOLUTE
     BURGUNDY, BOIS DE ROSE OIL, BRAN ABSOLUTE, BRAN RESINOID,
     BROOM ABSOLUTE ITALY, CARDAMOM GUATEMALA C02 EXTRACT,
 15  CARDAMOM OIL GUATEMALA, CARDAMOM OIL INDIA, CARROT HEART,
     CASSIE ABSOLUTE EGYPT, CASSIE ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT IPM, CASTOREUM
     ABS 90 PCT TEC, CASTOREUM ABS C 50 PCT MIGLYOL, CASTOREUM
     ABSOLUTE, CASTOREUM RESINOID, CASTOREUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG,
     CEDROL CEDRENE, CEDRUS ATLANTICA OIL REDIST, CHAMOMILE OIL
 20  ROMAN, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD LOW LIMONENE,
     CINNAMON BARK OIL CEYLAN, CISTE ABSOLUTE, CISTE ABSOLUTE
     COLORLESS, CITRONELLA OIL ASIA IRON FREE, CIVET ABS 75 PCT PG,
     CIVET ABSOLUTE, CIVET TINCTURE 10 PCT, CLARY SAGE ABS FRENCH
     DECOL, CLARY SAGE ABSOLUTE FRENCH, CLARY SAGE C'LESS 50 PCT PG,
 25  CLARY SAGE OIL FRENCH, COPAIBA BALSAM, COPAIBA BALSAM OIL,
     CORIANDER SEED OIL, CYPRESS OIL, CYPRESS OIL ORGANIC, DAVANA OIL,
     GALBANOL, GALBANUM ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, GALBANUM OIL,
     GALBANUM RESINOID, GALBANUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG, GALBANUM
     RESINOID HERCOLYN BHT, GALBANUM RESINOID TEC BHT, GENTIANE
 30  ABSOLUTE MD 20 PCT BB, GENTIANE CONCRETE, GERANIUM ABS EGYPT
     MD, GERANIUM ABSOLUTE EGYPT, GERANIUM OIL CHINA, GERANIUM OIL
     EGYPT, GINGER OIL 624, GINGER OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, GUAIACWOOD
     HEART, HAY ABS MD 50 PCT BB, HAY ABSOLUTE, HAY ABSOLUTE MD 50
     PCT TEC, HEALINGWOOD, HYSSOP OIL ORGANIC, IMMORTELLE ABS YUGO
 35  MD 50 PCT TEC, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE SPAIN, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE
                                      60

WO 2014/138550                                         PCT/US2014/021632
     YUGO, JASMIN ABS INDIA MD, JASMIN ABSOLUTE EGYPT, JASMIN
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, ASMIN ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, JASMIN ABSOLUTE
     SAMBAC, JONQUILLE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, JONQUILLE ABSOLUTE France,
     JUNIPER BERRY OIL FLG, JUNIPER BERRY OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE,
  5  LABDANUM RESINOID 50 PCT TEC, LABDANUM RESINOID BB, LABDANUM
     RESINOID MD, LABDANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT BB, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE
     H, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE MD, LAVANDIN OIL ABRIAL ORGANIC,
     LAVANDIN OIL GROSSO ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL SUPER, LAVENDER
     ABSOLUTE H, LAVENDER ABSOLUTE MD, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN
 10  FREE, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL
     MAILLETTE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL MT, MACE ABSOLUTE BB,
     MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL LOW METHYL EUGENOL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER
     OIL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL MD, MAGNOLIA LEAF OIL, MANDARIN OIL
     MD, MANDARIN OIL MD BHT, MATE ABSOLUTE BB, MOSS TREE ABSOLUTE
 15  MD TEX IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABS MD TEC IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABSOLUTE
     IFRA 43, MOSS-TREE ABSOLUTE MD IPM IFRA 43, MYRRH RESINOID BB,
     MYRRH RESINOID MD, MYRRH RESINOID TEC, MYRTLE OIL IRON FREE,
     MYRTLE OIL TUNISIA RECTIFIED, NARCISSE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, NARCISSE
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, NEROLI OIL TUNISIA, NUTMEG OIL TERPENELESS,
 20  OEILLET ABSOLUTE, OLIBANUM RESINOID, OLIBANUM RESINOID BB,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID DPG, OLIBANUM RESINOID EXTRA 50 PCT DPG,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID MD, OLIBANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT DPG,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID TEC, OPOPONAX RESINOID TEC, ORANGE BIGARADE
     OIL MD BHT, ORANGE BIGARADE OIL MD SCFC, ORANGE FLOWER
 25  ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORANGE FLOWER WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORANGE LEAF ABSOLUTE, ORANGE LEAF WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORRIS ABSOLUTE ITALY, ORRIS CONCRETE 15 PCT IRONE, ORRIS
     CONCRETE 8 PCT IRONE, ORRIS NATURAL 15 PCT IRONE 4095C, ORRIS
     NATURAL 8 PCT IRONE 2942C, ORRIS RESINOID, OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE,
 30  OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, PATCHOULI HEART N-3,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA IRON FREE,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA MD, PATCHOULI OIL REDIST, PENNYROYAL
     HEART, PEPPERMINT ABSOLUTE MD, PETITGRAIN BIGARADE OIL TUNISIA,
     PETITGRAIN CITRONNIER OIL, PETITGRAIN OIL PARAGUAY TERPENELESS,
 35  PETITGRAIN OIL TERPENELESS STAB, PIMENTO BERRY OIL, PIMENTO LEAF
                                      61

WO 2014/138550                                                            PCT/US2014/021632
     OIL, RHODINOL EX GERANIUM CHINA, ROSE ABS BULGARIAN LOW
     METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS MOROCCO LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE
     ABS TURKISH LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABSOLUTE, ROSE ABSOLUTE
     BULGARIAN, ROSE ABSOLUTE DAMASCENA, ROSE ABSOLUTE MD, ROSE
  5  ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, ROSE ABSOLUTE TURKISH, ROSE OIL BULGARIAN,
     ROSE OIL DAMASCENA LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE OIL TURKISH,
     ROSEMARY OIL CAMPHOR ORGANIC, ROSEMARY OIL TUNISIA,
     SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA, SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA RECTIFIED,
     SANTALOL, SCHINUS MOLLE OIL, ST JOHN BREAD TINCTURE 10 PCT,
 10  STYRAX RESINOID, STYRAX RESINOID, TAGETE OIL, TEA TREE HEART,
     TONKA BEAN ABS 50 PCT SOLVENTS, TONKA BEAN ABSOLUTE, TUBEROSE
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, VETIVER HEART EXTRA, VETIVER OIL HAITI, VETIVER
     OIL HAITI MD, VETIVER OIL JAVA, VETIVER OIL JAVA MD, VIOLET LEAF
     ABSOLUTE EGYPT, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT DECOL, VIOLET LEAF
 15  ABSOLUTE FRENCH, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, WORMWOOD
     OIL TERPENELESS, YLANG EXTRA OIL, YLANG III OIL and combinations of
     these.
             The colorants can be among those listed in the Color Index International by the
     Society of Dyers and Colourists. Colorants include dyes and pigments and include those
 20  commonly used for coloring textiles, paints, inks and inkjet inks. Some colorants that
     can be utilized include carotenoids, arylide yellows, diarylide yellows, B-naphthols,
     naphthols, benzimidazolones, disazo condensation pigments, pyrazolones, nickel azo
     yellow, phthalocyanines, quinacridones, perylenes and perinones, isoindolinone and
     isoindoline pigments, triarylcarbonium pigments, diketopyrrolo-pyrrole pigments,
 25  thioindigoids. Cartenoids include, e.g., alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene,
     lycopene, lutein and astaxanthin Annatto extract, Dehydrated beets (beet powder),
     Canthaxanthin, Caramel, P-Apo-8'-carotenal, Cochineal extract, Carmine, Sodium
     copper chlorophyllin, Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour, Ferrous
     gluconate, Ferrous lactate, Grape color extract, Grape skin extract (enocianina), Carrot
 30  oil, Paprika, Paprika oleoresin, Mica-based pearlescent pigments, Riboflavin, Saffron,
     Titanium dioxide, Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate, Turmeric,
     Turmeric oleoresin, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C Green No. 3, Orange
     B, Citrus Red No. 2, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C Yellow No. 5, FD&C
     Yellow No. 6, Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide), Calcium carbonate, Potassium
 35  sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex), Dihydroxyacetone,
                                                  62

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     Bismuth oxychloride, Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide, Ferric ferrocyanide, Chromium
     hydroxide green, Chromium oxide greens, Guanine, Pyrophyllite, Talc, Aluminum
     powder, Bronze powder, Copper powder, Zinc oxide, D&C Blue No. 4, D&C Green No.
     5, D&C Green No. 6, D&C Green No. 8, D&C Orange No. 4, D&C Orange No. 5, D&C
  5  Orange No. 10, D&C Orange No. 11, FD&C Red No. 4, D&C Red No. 6, D&C Red No.
     7, D&C Red No. 17, D&C Red No. 21, D&C Red No. 22, D&C Red No. 27, D&C Red
     No. 28, D&C Red No. 30, D&C Red No. 31, D&C Red No. 33, D&C Red No. 34, D&C
     Red No. 36, D&C Red No. 39, D&C Violet No. 2, D&C Yellow No. 7, Ext. D&C
     Yellow No. 7, D&C Yellow No. 8, D&C Yellow No. 10, D&C Yellow No. 11, D&C
 10  Black No. 2, D&C Black No. 3 (3), D&C Brown No. 1, Ext. D&C, Chromium-cobalt
     aluminum oxide, Ferric ammonium citrate, Pyrogallol, Logwood extract, 1,4-Bis[(2
     hydroxy-ethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2-propenoic)ester copolymers, 1,4-Bis
     [(2-methylphenyl)amino] -9,10-anthracenedione, 1,4-Bis[4- (2-methacryloxyethyl)
     phenylamino] anthraquinone copolymers, Carbazole violet, Chlorophyllin-copper
 15  complex, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, C.I. Vat Orange 1, 2-[[2,5-Diethoxy- 4-[(4
     methylphenyl)thiol] phenyl]azo] -1,3,5-benzenetriol, 16,23-Dihydrodinaphtho [2,3
     a:2',3'-i] naphth [2',3':6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole- 5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone, N,N'-(9,10
     Dihydro- 9,10-dioxo- 1,5-anthracenediyl) bisbenzamide, 7,16-Dichloro- 6,15-dihydro
     5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone, 16,17-Dimethoxydinaphtho (1,2,3-cd:3',2',1'-lm) perylene
 20  5,10-dione, Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate) -dye copolymers(3), Reactive Black 5,
     Reactive Blue 21, Reactive Orange 78, Reactive Yellow 15, Reactive Blue No. 19,
     Reactive Blue No. 4, C.I. Reactive Red 11, C.I. Reactive Yellow 86, C.I. Reactive Blue
     163, C.I. Reactive Red 180, 4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]- 2,4-dihydro- 5-methyl-2
     phenyl- 3H-pyrazol-3-one (solvent Yellow 18), 6-Ethoxy-2- (6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b]
 25  thien-2(3H)- ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen- 3(2H)-one, Phthalocyanine green, Vinyl
     alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products, C.I. Reactive Red 180, C.I. Reactive
     Black 5, C.I. Reactive Orange 78, C.I. Reactive Yellow 15, C.I. Reactive Blue 21,
     Disodium 1-amino-4- [[4- [(2-bromo- 1-oxoallyl)amino] -2-sulphonatophenyl]amino] -9,10
     dihydro-9,10-dioxoanthracene-2-sulphonate (Reactive Blue 69), D&C Blue No. 9,
 30  [Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper and mixtures of these.
               Other than in the examples herein, or unless otherwise expressly specified, all of
     the numerical ranges, amounts, values and percentages, such as those for amounts of
     materials, elemental contents, times and temperatures of reaction, ratios of amounts, and
     others, in the following portion of the specification and attached claims may be read as if
 35  prefaced by the word "about" even though the term "about" may not expressly appear
                                                     63

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
     with the value, amount, or range. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the
     numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are
     approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
     obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the
  5  application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical
     parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant
     digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
             Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad
     scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific
 10  examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however,
     inherently contains error necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in its
     underlying respective testing measurements. Furthermore, when numerical ranges are
     set forth herein, these ranges are inclusive of the recited range end points (e.g., end
     points may be used). When percentages by weight are used herein, the numerical values
 15  reported are relative to the total weight.
             Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended
     to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of "1 to 10" is
     intended to include all sub-ranges between (and including) the recited minimum value of
     1 and the recited maximum value of 10, that is, having a minimum value equal to or
 20  greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10. The terms "one," "a," or
     "an" as used herein are intended to include "at least one" or "one or more," unless
     otherwise indicated.
             Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in part, that is
     said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that
 25  the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions, statements, or other
     disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such, and to the extent necessary, the
     disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated
     herein by reference. Any material, or portion thereof, that is said to be incorporated by
     reference herein, but which conflicts with existing definitions, statements, or other
 30  disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict
     arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.
             While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
     preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that
     various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the
 35  scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.
                                                    64

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
     CLAIMS:
              1. A method of conveying a material, the method comprising;
              providing a recirculating gas flow at least a portion of which passing through a
  5  radiation field having an intensity above background levels,
              delivering a material through an ingress into the recirculating gas flow,
              removing the material at an egress from the recirculating gas flow.
              2. The method of claim 1, wherein the material is conveyed by the recirculating
 10  gas flow in the recirculating loop between the ingress and egress.
              3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the ingress is positioned in the radiation
     field having an intensity above background levels, and the egress is positioned in an area
     having a radiation field substantially the same as background levels.
 15
              4. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein the recirculating gas
     flow is enclosed.
              5. The method of any one of the previous claims, further comprising delivering
 20  process gasses along with the material through the ingress to the recirculating gas flow.
              6. The method of claim 5, wherein the process gases are selected from the group
     consisting of volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants, ozone and mixtures
     thererof.
 25
              7. The method of any one of the previous claims, further comprising sending at
     least a portion of gas from the recirculating gas flow through an air pollution control
     system.
 30           8. The method of claim 7, wherein the air pollution control system is in line with
     the recirculating gas flow.
              9. The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the pollution control system includes an
     ozone abatement system.
 35
                                                   65

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
             10. The method of any one of claims 7 through 9, wherein the air pollution
     control system includes a metal oxide catalyst.
             11. The method of any one of claims 7 through 10, wherein the air pollution
  5  control system includes activated carbon.
             12. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein a gas in the
     recirculating gas flow includes at least 75% of an inert gas.
 10          13. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein a gas in the
     recirculating gas flow includes at least 80% of an inert gas.
             14. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein a gas in the
     recirculating gas flow includes at least 90% of an inert gas.
 15
             15. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein a gas in the
     recirculating gas flow has less than about 20% oxygen.
             16. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein a gas in the
 20  recirculating gas flow has less than about 10% oxygen.
             17. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein the gas includes
     nitrogen.
 25          18. The method of any one of the previous claims, further comprising treating the
     material with ionizing radiation.
             19. The method of claim 18, wherein the ionizing radiation includes an electron
     beam.
 30
             20. The method of any one of the previous claims, further comprising diverting a
     portion of a gas in the recirculating gas flow out of the recirculating flow.
             21. The method of claim 20, wherein the portion of gas that is diverted is diverted
 35  downstream from the ingress.
                                                   66

WO 2014/138550                                                             PCT/US2014/021632
             22. The method of claim 21, further comprising removing dust from the
     recirculating gas upstream from where the gas is diverted.
  5          23. The method of any one the previous claims, wherein the material is a biomass
     material.
             24. The method of claim 23, wherein the biomass is a lignocellulosic material.
 10          25. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein the material has a
     density of less than 0.75 g/cm 3.
             26. The method of any one of the previous claims, wherein the material has been
     comminuted and has a mean particle size between about 0.5 mm and 10 mm.
 15
             27. The method of claim 26, wherein material has been comminuted and has an
     aspect ratio of greater than 2.
             28. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the radiation field is
 20  created by Bremsstrahlung X-rays.
             29. A system for conveying a material comprising,
                     a closed recirculating gas loop with an ingress for a material and an egress
     for the material, at least a portion of which being disposed in a radiation field having an
 25  intensity level above background level.
             30. The system of claim 29, further comprising a material flow path disposed in
     the loop and between the ingress and egress.
 30          31. The system of claim 29 or 30, wherein the ingress is in fluid communication
     to delivery elements for delivering the material to the gas loop.
             32. The system of claim 31, wherein the delivery elements comprise a rotary
     valve.
 35
                                                   67

WO 2014/138550                                                               PCT/US2014/021632
              33. The system of claims 31 or 32, wherein the delivery elements are in fluid
     communication with an input-conveyor.
              34. The system of claim 33, wherein the input-conveyor is a vibratory conveyor.
  5
              35. The system of any one of claims 30 through 34, wherein the egress includes
     elements for separating a conveyed material from the gas in the recirculating gas loop.
              36. The system of claim 35, wherein the elements for separating the material
 10  from the gas includes a bag house.
              37. The system of any one of claims 29 through 36, wherein the egress is in fluid
     communication with an output-conveyor.
 15           38. The system of claim 37, wherein the output-conveyor is selected from the
     group consisting of a belt conveyor, a vibratory conveyor, a pneumatic conveyor, a
     screw conveyor, a cooling conveyor, a hopper and combinations thereof.
              39. The system of any one of claims 29 through 38, further comprising a
 20  pollution control system in fluid communication with the recirculating gas loop.
              40. The system of claim 39, wherein the pollution control system is in line with
     the recirculating gas loop.
 25           41. The system of claim 39, wherein the recirculating gas loop includes an outlet
     for diverting a portion of the gas flow therefrom and through the pollution control
     system.
              42. The system of any one of claims 29 through 41, wherein the gas in the
 30  recirculating gas loop comprises less than about 20% oxygen.
              43. The system of any one of claims 29 through 42, wherein the material ingress
     is situated in a vault and the material egress is situated out of said vault.
                                                   68

WO 2014/138550                                                              PCT/US2014/021632
             44. The system of claim 43, wherein the vault is constructed of radiation opaque
     materials.
             45. The system of any one of claims 29 through 44, further comprising biomass
  5  in the recirculating gas loop between the ingress and the egress.
             46. A biomass conveying system comprising,
             a closed recirculating gas loop with a portion of the loop disposed inside a vault
     and a portion of the loop disposed outside of the vault, and
 10          a biomass ingress into the loop located inside the vault and a biomass egress out
     of the loop located outside of the vault.
             47. The system of claim 46, wherein the gas loop and vault form a substantially
     gas tight enclosure.
 15
             48. The system of claim 46 or claim 47, wherein the gas loop and vault form a
     radiation tight enclosure.
             49. The system of any one of claims 46 through 48, wherein the atmosphere
 20  within the vault comprises a gas with less than about 20% oxygen.
             50. The system of any one of claims 46 through 49, wherein the gas in the
     recirculating gas loop comprises a gas with less than about 10% oxygen.
 25          51. The system of any one of claims 49 through 50, wherein the portion of the
     loop disposed inside the vault is exposed to a radiation field that is higher than
     background level such as the background level that is outside of the vault.
                                                  69

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
