                                             Abstract
   A method is described for use with a gaming machine (114) that is arranged to provide
   a spinning reel game in which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel
 5 having an associated sequence of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning
   combination occurs. The method comprises spinning the reels to provide a resultant
   reel configuration and displaying a symbol array (700) from the resultant reel position
   in a reel display portion of a display. The award is awarded if the winning combination
   occurs in the reel display portion. The method includes replacing the displayed symbol
10 array in the reel display portion with a further symbol array (900) from the resultant reel
   configuration. The method may include a simulation of the symbol array shattering.

                                                    1
                      A gaming machine that changes a displayed view of symbols
   Field of the Invention
 5            The present invention generally relates to gaming machines and methods of
   gaming. A particular embodiment of the present invention relates to gaming machines
   that provide a spinning reel game.
   Background of the Invention
10
              With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased
   competition between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total gambling
   spend. Gaming venue operators have therefore continuously looked for new variations
   and types of games in order to attract both new and return customers to their venues.
15
              In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have
   attempted to provide the sought-after variety, while still developing games that comply
   with the relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming venue operator. Suppliers
   of gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on the types of games and
20 gaming machines that are allowable, both in terms of the prevailing regulations and in
   terms of providing a return on investment to the gaming venue operators.
   Summary of the Invention
25            According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method for use
   with a gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning reel game in which
   symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an associated sequence
   of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning combination is displayed, the method
   comprising:
30            spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
   a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
   predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
   configuration;
35            determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
   eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                    2
              replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
   display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display portion.
 5             In one embodiment, the visual indication of eligibility for replacement comprises
   a graphic object having an apparent trajectory such that the graphic object appears to
   have been thrown towards the reel display portion.
               In one embodiment, the visual indication of eligibility for replacement comprises
10 representations of cracks across the reel display portion of the display, such that the
   reel display portions appears to be on the verge of shattering.
              The graphic object may be a representation of: a ball, a stone, a rock or
   another projectile.
15
              According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a gaming
   machine having a display and a game controller arranged to control images of symbols
   displayed on the display, the game controller being arranged to provide a spinning reel
   game in which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an
20 associated sequence of symbols, and to award an award if a winning combination is
   displayed, the game controller arranged to:
              spin the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              display a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
   the display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
25 predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
   combination;
              determine if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are eligible
   for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
              replace the displayed portion of the resultant reel combination in the reel
30 display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display portion.
              According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a computer
   program product comprising machine-readable program code recorded on a machine
35 readable recording medium, for controlling the operation of a data processing
   apparatus on which the program code executes to perform a method for use with a
   gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning reel game in which symbols are
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                    3
   spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an associated sequence of symbols,
   and an award is awarded if a winning combination occurs, the method comprising:
              spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
 5 a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
   predefined winning combination           in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
   configuration;
              determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
   eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
10            replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
   display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display portion.
              According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a computer
15 program comprising machine-readable program code for controlling the operation of a
   data processing apparatus on which the program code executes to perform a method
   for use with a gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning reel game in
   which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an associated
   sequence of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning combination
20 occurs, the method comprising:
              spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
   a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
   predefined winning combination           in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
25 configuration;
              determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
   eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
              replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
   display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
30 previously visible in the reel display portion.
              Further aspects of the present invention will be apparent from the following
   description, which is given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying
   drawings. Also, various embodiments of the aspects described in the preceding
35 paragraphs will be apparent from the appended claims, the following description and/or
   the accompanying drawings.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                   4
    Brief Description of the Drawings
                Figure 1 shows schematically a view of a gaming console suitable for
    implementing the present invention.
  5
                Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming machine suitable for implementing
    the present invention.
                Figure 3 shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the gaming
10  machine represented in Figure 2.
                Figure 4 shows schematically a network gaming system suitable for
    implementing the present invention.
15              Figure 5 shows a flow diagram of a method in which a symbol array displayed
    in a spinning reel game is replaced by a further symbol array.
                Figure 6 shows a flow diagram of an embodiment of the method of Figure 5 in
    which a reel window appears to shatter when replacing the symbol array.
20
                Figure 7 shows a schematic representation of a symbol array shattering in a
    spinning reel game.
                Figure 8 shows a schematic representation of the replacement symbol array
25  moving into position.
                Figure 9 shows a schematic representation of a further symbol array displayed
    on the gaming machine after a previously-displayed symbol array has been shattered.
30  Detailed Description
                In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming console
    that is suitable to implement the present invention is generally referenced by arrow
     114.
35
               The gaming console 114 includes two displays 106A, 106B on one or both of
    which is displayed representations of a game that can be played by a player and a
           (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
    10307085

                                                    5
   bank of buttons 107A and/or a touch screen 107B to enable a player to play the game.
   The displays 106 may be video display units, such as a cathode ray tube screen
   device, a liquid crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or
   the visible portion of an electromechanical device. The display 106B may display
 5 artwork, including for example, pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game. In alternative gaming consoles the display
    106B may be omitted, optionally replaced by a static display.
              A credit input including a coin input 11 0A and/or bill collector 11 OB allows a
10 player to provide credit for wagering and a coin output 111 is provided for cash payouts
   from the gaming console 114. A card and/or ticket reader 108 and a printer 109 may
   be provided to provide player tracking, cashless game play or other gaming and non
   gaming related functions.
15             Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming machine, generally referenced by
   arrow 100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming machine 100
   may include the gaming console 114 shown in Figure 1 and accordingly like reference
   numerals have been used to describe like components in Figures 1 and 2.
20            The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the
   illustrated example includes a computational device 102, which may be a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or some other suitable
   device. Instructions and data to control operation of the computational device 102 are
   stored in a memory 103, which is in data communication with, or forms part of, the
25 computational device 102. Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both volatile
   and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory, with such
   memories being collectively represented by the memory 103. The instructions to cause
   the game controller 101 to implement the present invention will be stored in the
   memory 103. The instructions and data for controlling operation of the computational
30 device 102 may be stored on a computer readable medium from which they are loaded
   into the gaming machine memory 103. The instructions and data may be conveyed to
   the gaming machine by means of a data signal in a transmission channel. Examples of
   such transmission channels include network connections, the Internet or an intranet
   and wireless communication channels.
35
              The game controller 101 may include hardware credit meters 104 for the
   purposes of regulatory compliance and also include an input/output (1/O) interface 105
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                   6
    for communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100. The
    input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
    their own memory for instructions and data.
  5             In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate
    with the controller are the displays 106, bank of buttons/touch screen 107, the card
    and/or ticket reader 108, the printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input 110 and a
    coin output 111. Additional devices may be included as part of the gaming machine
    100, or devices omitted as required for the specific implementation.
10
               The bank of buttons 107A and/or touch screen 107B together with one or both
    of the displays 106 may provide a user interface 115 through which the gaming
    machine 100 and player communicate. If a card/ticket reader 108 is provided, this may
    also form part of the user interface 115.
15
    In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface, for
    example a network card 112. The network card 112, may for example, send status
    information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
    or database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or
20  database. The network card 112 may also enable communication with a central player
    account, allowing cashless gaming. One or more of the peripheral devices, for example
    the card/ticket reader 108 may be able to communicate directly with the network card
    112. The network card 112 and the I/O interface 105 may be suitably implemented as
    a single machine communications interface.
25
               The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113,
    which generates a series of random numbers that are used by the computational
    device 102 to determine the outcomes of games played on the gaming machine 100.
30             The game controller 101 may have distributed hardware and software
    components that communicate with each other directly or through a network or other
    communication channel. The game controller 101 may also be located in part or in its
    entirety remote from the user interface 115. Also, the computational device 102 may
    comprise a plurality of devices, which may be local or remote from each other.
35  Instructions and data for controlling the operation of the user interface 115 may be
    conveyed to the user interface 115 by means of a data signal in a transmission
    channel. The user interface 115 may be a computational device, for example a
           (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
    10307085

                                                7
   personal computer, used by a person to play a game provided from a remote game
   controller 101.
               Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the
 5 memory 103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds instructions and data related
   to the execution of game programs and communication functions performed by the
   computational controller 102. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or
   may contain system and game related code. The mass storage device 103C may be
   used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be verified and/or
10 authenticated by the computational controller 102 using protected code from the
   EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
               Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200 in the form of a network of devices. The
   gaming system 200 includes a network infrastructure 201, which for example may be in
15 the form of an Ethernet network. Alternatively, a wireless network and/or direct
   communication channels, or a different type of network may be used to link the gaming
   machines to a server, each other and/or other devices. Gaming consoles 114, shown
   arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming consoles 114 in Figure 4, are connected to
   the network infrastructure 201. The gaming consoles 114 may form part or all of a
20 gaming machine 100. Single gaming consoles 114 and banks 203 containing three or
   more gaming devices 202 may also be connected to the network infrastructure 201,
   which may also include bank controllers, hubs, routers, bridges to other networks and
   other devices (not shown).
25            One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The
   displays 204 may, for example, be associated with a bank 203 of gaming consoles
   114. The displays 204 may be used to display representations associated with game
   play on the gaming devices 114, and/or used to display other representations, for
   example promotional or informational material.
30
              Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game
   server 205 may generate game outcomes for games played on one or more of the
   gaming consoles 114, a database management server 206 may manage the storage of
   game programs and associated data in a database 206A so that they are available for
35 downloading to, or access by, game controllers 101, and a jackpot server 207 may
   control one or more jackpots for the gaming system 200.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                       8
               Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
   system 200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An
   administrator terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to manage the network
 5 201 and the devices connected to the network. The different servers depicted can be
   distinct physical servers or logically distinct server processes running on a single
   physical server.
              The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, or other
10 local networks, for example a corporate network and/or a wide area network such as
   the Internet through a firewall 211.
              The game described herein relates to a spinning reel game in which a plurality
   of spinning reels are spun on a gaming machine such as gaming machine 100. In
15 earlier gaming machines it was typical for the spinning reels to be mechanical reels
   bearing a sequence of symbols. However, in recent years it has been common for the
   reels to be graphic objects that are rendered to a display such as display 106 and
   animated to simulate the rotation of a mechanical reel. In the embodiment described
   below, the spinning reels are graphic objects that are rendered to a display 106.
20
               Figure 5 shows a process flow diagram of a process performed in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention. The process may be performed by the
   gaming system 200 or on individual gaming machines 114. Those skilled in the
   relevant arts will appreciate that the process may also be implemented by other
25 gaming systems.
               For game play to commence, the game controller 101 monitors the bill acceptor
   and/or coin input 110 and/or information received by the card/ticket reader 108 or
   network card 112 for a deposit of credit and in response causes the hardware meters
30 104 to increment according to the denomination of the game. The game controller 101
   then monitors the user interface 107 for the input of a wager.
               If there are sufficient credits in the meters 104 to support the wager, a spinning
   reel game is commenced by the game controller 101.
35
               In method 300 shown in Figure 5 the plurality of spinning reels are spun in step
   302 to define a resultant reel configuration. Each of the spinning reels has an
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                       9
   associated sequence of symbols. In one arrangement the reels all have the same
   number of symbols. In other arrangements different reels may have different numbers
   of symbols in their associated sequences.
 5            The resultant reel configuration at the end of step 302 determines the relative
   positions of the symbols on the plurality of reels throughout the associated sequences.
               In step 304 a subset of the resultant reel configuration is displayed in a reel
   display window which is an area of a display 106. In the example shown in Figures 7-9,
10 the spinning reel game uses 5 reels. The symbol array displayed in the reel display
   window shows 3 symbols from each of the reels. Thus, in the example the displayed
   symbol array has 5 columns and 3 rows. The displayed symbol array is a subset of the
   resultant reel configuration obtained by spinning the reels in step 302.
15             In step 306 the controlling software running on the gaming machine 100
   determines whether a winning outcome has occurred in the symbol array displayed in
   the reel display window. If there is a winning outcome, an award may be made.
               In step 308 the controlling software checks whether the player is eligible to
20 replace the symbol array displayed in the reel display window. Various eligibility criteria
   may be specified for an implementation of the described game. For example, the
   player may be required to place an ante-bet before the reels are spun in step 302 in
   order to become eligible to replace the displayed symbol array. Alternatively, the player
   may be offered the option of purchasing the rights to replace the symbol array. Thus,
25 for example, if there has been no winning outcome in an initial symbol display, the
   player may opt to replace the displayed symbol array.
              Another eligibility criterion for replacing the symbol array may be the
   occurrence of a triggering combination of symbols in the displayed symbol array. If the
30 triggering combination occurs, then the displayed symbol array may be automatically
   replaced. Alternatively, if the triggering combination has occurred, the player may be
   given an option to replace the displayed symbol array.
               In a further alternative, the right to replace the symbol array may be a
35 randomly-triggered entitlement, determined, for example by the random number
   generator 113. A message may be displayed on display 106 informing the player that
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                      10
   he or she is eligible to replace the current symbol array. This listing of eligibility criteria
   is not exhaustive and other criteria may also be used in method 300.
               If the player is not eligible to replace the symbol array (the No option of step
 5 308) then ordinary game play continues at step 310. For example, process flow may
   return to step 302 to initiate a further spin of one or more of the reels. The player may
   be required to make a further wager in order to continue the spinning reel game.
               If, however, the player is eligible to replace the symbol array (the Yes option of
10 step 308) then process flow proceeds to step 312.
               In step 312, the controlling software removes the symbol array currently
   displayed in the reel display window and displays a further symbol array drawn from
   the reel configuration that resulted from the reel spin in step 302. Note that the reels
15 have not been re-spun. Instead, a portion of the reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display window is moved into view in step 312.
              Process flow in method 300 then returns to step 306, which is a check to see
   whether a winning outcome has occurred in the further symbol array.
20
              Depending on the eligibility criteria that had been specified, the process of
   replacing the displayed symbol array may continue. The iterated process of replacing
   the symbol array may, for example, continue until there are no further symbol arrays
   that may be drawn from the resultant reel configuration of step 302.
25
               It will be understood that various criteria may be specified to determine whether
   a winning outcome has occurred. For example, the game may specify one or more pay
   lines that traverse the displayed symbol array in the reel display window. If a specified
   combination of symbols occurs on one of the specified pay lines, a winning outcome
30 may occur.
              There are many ways in which the currently-displayed symbol array may be
   removed from the reel display window and replaced with the next symbol array from
   the reel configuration. In one embodiment a shattering effect is used. This is illustrated
35 in the flow diagram of Figure 6. In step 350 the controlling software animates the
   display of the symbol array to give the effect of a glass pane shattering. Pieces of glass
   may fall away from the shattered pane, thereby removing the displayed symbol array.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                    11
   In step 352 the adjacent symbol array from the resultant reel configuration is moved
   into the reel display window to take the place of the original array.
               In one arrangement a moving graphic object may be rendered to display 106
 5 such that the graphic object appears to be thrown at or projected towards the reel
   display window. The graphic object, which may, for example, be a ball or a stone,
   appears to strike the reel display window and shatter the window as if it were made of
   glass. The object may be thrown by an animated character or projected from another
   graphic object such as a catapult or cannon.
10
               In one arrangement of the game, a player may need to accumulate graphic
   objects such as stones or balls in order to be eligible to replace the displayed symbol
   array. Thus, for example, the player may purchase one or more stones that the player
   may then choose to activate in order to shatter a reel display window and reveal a
15 further symbol array. Alternatively or additionally, the player may win graphic objects
   such as balls or stones in the course of play. The player may thus accumulate an
   armoury of objects to use in shattering displayed symbol arrays.
               It will be appreciated that other animation sequences may be used to delete a
20 currently displayed symbol array in order to create room for the display of a further
   symbol array on the resultant reel configuration. For example, the existing symbol
   array may be erased using an eraser. The symbols may also appear to be set alight
   and, once they have been incinerated, the next symbol array may move into position.
25            The embodiment in which the reel display window is shattered is illustrated in
   Figures 7, 8 and 9.
               Figure 7 shows a symbol array 700 made up of 3 symbols on each of 5 reels. In
   the example, the player is eligible to replace the displayed symbol array and Figure 7
30 illustrates the effect of a graphic object 705 having been thrown at the reel display
   window. Arrow 704 depicts the apparent trajectory of the object 705 across the display.
   Cracks 702 appear in the reel display window and pieces of glass fall away until the
   shattered symbol array disappears.
35             Figure 8 is a schematic representation 800 of the adjacent symbol array from
   the resultant reel configuration moving downwards to appear in the reel display window
   on display 106.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                     12
               Figure 9 shows the resultant symbol array 900. In the example the middle row
   of the symbol array consists of 5 queens, which is a winning combination.
 5            While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the
   preferred embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated, which
   utilise gaming machines of the type found in casinos, those skilled in the relevant arts
   will appreciate that the present invention also may have application to internet gaming
   and/or have application to gaming over a telecommunications network, where
10 handsets are used to display game outcomes and receive player inputs.
              Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having
   known equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if
   individually set forth.
15
              Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions
   to the embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing from the
   scope of the present invention.
20             It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this
   specification extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual
   features mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different
   combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
25            It will also be understood that the term "comprises" (or its grammatical variants)
   as used in this specification is equivalent to the term "includes" and should not be
   taken as excluding the presence of other elements or features.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                    13
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.         A method for use with a gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning
 5 reel game in which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an
   associated sequence of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning combination is
   displayed, the method comprising:
              spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
10 a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
   predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
   configuration;
              determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
   eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
15            replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
   display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display portion.
   2.         A method according to claim 1, wherein the visual indication of eligibility for
20 replacement comprises a graphic object having an apparent trajectory such that the
   graphic object appears to have been thrown towards the reel display portion.
   3.         A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the visual indication of
   eligibility for replacement comprises representations of cracks across the reel display
25 portion of the display, such that the reel display portions appears to be on the verge of
   shattering.
   4.         A method according to claim 3, comprising accumulating graphic objects for
   use in shattering the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration.
30
   5.         A method according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the graphic object is a
   representation of: a ball, a stone, a rock or another projectile.
   6.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising repeating
35 said replacing step if eligibility criteria are satisfied.
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                   14
   7.         A method according to claim 6, wherein said replacing step is repeated until all
   symbols associated with the reels have been displayed in the reel display portion.
   8.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the other
 5 portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not previously visible in the reel
   display portion is adjacent to the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration.
   9.         A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein eligibility
   criteria are selected from the group consisting of:
10            a player placing an ante-bet before the reels are spun;
              the player purchasing a right to replace the displayed symbol array;
              the occurrence of a triggering outcome in the displayed symbol array;
              the accumulation of one or more graphic objects for use in shattering the
   symbol array; and
15            the occurrence of a randomly-triggered entitlement.
   10.        A gaming machine having a display and a game controller arranged to control
   images of symbols displayed on the display, the game controller being arranged to
   provide a spinning reel game in which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each
20 reel having an associated sequence of symbols, and to award an award if a winning
   combination is displayed, the game controller arranged to:
              spin the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
              display a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
   the display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
25 predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
   configuration;
              determine if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are eligible
   for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
              replace the displayed portion of the resultant reel combination in the reel
30 display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
   previously visible in the reel display portion.
   11.        A computer program product comprising machine-readable program code
   recorded on a machine-readable recording medium, for controlling the operation of a
35 data processing apparatus on which the program code executes to perform a method
   for use with a gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning reel game in
   which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an associated
          (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
   10307085

                                                    15
    sequence of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning combination occurs, the
    method comprising:
               spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
               displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
  5 a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
    predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
    configuration;
               determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
    eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
10             replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
    display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
    previously visible in the reel display portion.
    12.        A computer program comprising machine-readable program code for controlling
15  the operation of a data processing apparatus on which the program code executes to
    perform a method for use with a gaming machine that is arranged to provide a spinning
    reel game in which symbols are spun up on a plurality of reels, each reel having an
    associated sequence of symbols, and an award is awarded if a winning combination
    occurs, the method comprising:
20             spinning the reels to provide a resultant reel configuration;
               displaying a portion of the resultant reel configuration in a reel display portion of
    a display, wherein the award is awarded if the displayed symbols form at least one
    predefined            winning combination in the displayed portion of the resultant reel
    configuration;
25             determining if the displayed symbols of the resultant reel configuration are
    eligible for replacement and if so, displaying a visual indication of that eligibility; and
               replacing the displayed portion of the resultant reel configuration in the reel
    display portion with another portion of the resultant reel configuration that was not
    previously visible in the reel display portion.
30
    13.        A data signal carrying instructions and/or data executable to implement the
    method of any one of claims 1-9.
           (GHMatters)P88013.AU.4
    10307085

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
