     LUBRICATION OF TRANSFER PLATES USING AN OIL OR OIL IN WATER
                                           EMULSIONS
                                             Abstract
       This disclosure relates to transfer plate lubricant compositions and methods of
transporting open containers across stationary transfer plates.

                                                  1
         LUBRICATION OF TRANSFER PLATES USING AN OIL OR
                            OIL IN WATER EMULSIONS
              CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 61/776,049, filed March 11, 2013, entitled "Lubrication of Transfer Plates
Using Oil in Water Emulsions," which is incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety. The present application is a divisional of AU 2014249350, the entire specification of
which is incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                                          FIELD
         This disclosure relates to transfer plate lubricants and to a method for
 transporting unclosed containers filled with liquid product on a stationary member
 from a filler to a device which applies a closure to the container.
                                     BACKGROUND
         During most transport steps in commercial container filling or packaging
 operations, the container is closed and rests upon a moving conveyor belt or chain.
 One exception is the transfer plate where open containers are moved from where
 they are filled to where they are closed over a stationary plate. This transfer plate is
 challenging because the containers are open and prone to spilling their contents. If
 they spill too much, they will be rejected upon inspection. Further, if the package is
 not aligned properly going into the closer, the closure could be poor or the entire
 machine could jam. These concerns are complicated by the fact that the open
 containers move very quickly. It is against this background that the present
 disclosure has been made.
                                        SUMMARY
          Surprisingly, it has been discovered that transfer plates can be lubricated
 using a substantially aqueous lubricant composition that comprises an oil or an oil in
 water emulsion. In particular, it has been found that the presence of dispersed
 water-insoluble compounds greatly reduces the amount of surfactant normally
 required for adequate lubrication of transfer plates. It is further surprising that the
 total concentration of oil plus emulsifying surfactant taken together can be

   substantially less than the concentration of surfactant required in conventional
   container transfer lubrication which lacks a water-insoluble oil.
           The present disclosure provides, in one aspect, a method for lubricating the
   passage of an open container along a container transfer plate comprising providing a
 5 lubricating liquid layer which comprises an aqueous dispersion of oil.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 shows a schematic of a can transfer plate.
10                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           In commercial container filling or packaging operations, containers such as
   beverage containers are filled and transported from the point of filling to other
   stations on the filling line for subsequent processing steps such as closing, rinsing,
   warming or cooling, labeling, and packing. During most transport steps the
15 container is closed and the container moves along with the conveyor surface. When
   containers are transported by a moving conveyor belt or chain, a conveyor lubricant
   may be used to reduce the coefficient of friction between the container and conveyor
   surface thereby facilitating differences in translational speed (i.e. slip) between the
   container and the conveyor that result from acceleration of the container (including
20 increases or decreases in velocity or changes in direction) or that result from
   stoppage of containers situated on conveyors moving underneath. Generally,
   containers transported by moving conveyor belts or chains are closed and the
   relative motion of containers versus the moving conveyor belt is relatively low (less
   than about 40 feet per minute relative motion) or even close to zero. In the case of
25 transport on moving conveyor belts or chains, accelerations of the container such as
   speeding up, slowing down, or changing direction result directly from traction
   between the container and conveyor belt. In this case, the lubricant controls the
   coefficient of friction without reducing it to a minimum amount, otherwise
   containers simply will not move or will move unacceptably backwards or
30 transversely under the influence of gravity or contact with other containers or
   equipment. Exemplary lubricants include wet and dry lubricants.
           One of the more difficult steps in transporting containers occurs when filled
   unclosed containers are moved from where they were filled to where they are closed.
                                                  2

   In the case of transporting open beverage containers, product spillage must be
   minimized so that the proper liquid volume is provided for sale. Furthermore, the
   transported open containers must move smoothly without excessive wobbling or
   transverse motion because misalignment of the open container at the point of
 5 interaction with the closing device will result in machine jamming and damage.
   Because the open containers in transit from the filler to the closing device are
   moving in single file, the forward translational velocity can reach speeds of 250 feet
   per minute, or even 610 feet per minute or more or roughly 2200 cans per minute.
   Because containers are moving on a stationary plate, the requirement for lubrication
10 is especially demanding and it is important to achieve and maintain the minimum
   possible coefficient of friction.
           Because of the very high relative motion of the container to the stationary
   plate and the requirement for very low coefficient of friction, methods for
   lubricating stationary transfer plates between fillers and closing devices are different
15 from methods used for lubricating moving conveyor belts. In particular, lubrication
   of transfer plates is provided by maintaining the plate surface flooded with an
   aqueous lubricant composition. By flooded it is meant that the plate is substantially
   immersed by a puddle of aqueous lubricant composition with a coverage of about
   0.05 to about 0.2 mL/cm 2 (about 0.5 to 2 mm depth). Continuous flooding of the
20 plate may be accomplished by pumping lubricant composition upwards from holes
   in the center of the transfer plate. This is shown in Figure 1 which generally shows
   cans 10 moving across a transfer plate 12. A lubricant source (not shown) is
   connected to a lubricant supply line 14. The lubricant supply line 14 is in fluid
   communication with one or more nozzles or bubblers 16 on the bottom of the
25 transfer plate 12. During operation, lubricant flows from the lubricant source,
   through the lubricant supply line 14 to the one or more nozzles or bubblers 16 and
   out the bottom of the transfer plate 12 to provide lubrication to the cans 10 moving
   across the stationary transfer plate 12. The nozzles or bubblers may be flush with
   the transfer plate so that the cans can pass over them, or they may be located to one
30 side of the transfer plate so that the cans may pass by them.
           Unlike the case for containers situated on a moving conveyor belt or chain, it
   is not easily possible to measure the coefficient of friction between a moving
   container and a stationary plate because there is no available method to measure the
                                                  3

   force between the finger of the drive chain and the container which acts to move the
   container against the friction between the container and plate. For transport on
   stationary plates, effective lubrication is observed as the absence of chattering,
   wobbling and spinning of the container. The effectiveness of lubrication can also be
 5 gauged through the amount of beverage spilling. A convenient and readily
   accessible value for amount of beverage spilled is the proportion of closed
   containers that are rejected from the conveyor line downstream from the closing
   device using a fill height detector device.
            For effective transfer plate operation, it is believed that sufficient liquid
10 lubricant coverage depth is required so as to allow the filled unclosed containers to
   "hydroplane" or skim over the surface of the liquid lubricant layer so that actual
   contact between the container and stationary plate is substantially prevented.
   Consequently, effective transfer plate lubrication may be considered to be
   hydrodynamic lubrication. Purely hydrodynamic lubrication is dependent upon the
15 presence of a liquid (hydro-), relative motion (-dynamic), viscous properties of the
   liquid, and the geometry of the surfaces between sliding surfaces in which a
   convergent wedge of fluid is produced. Because the geometry of the container
   bottom may be significantly departed from flat or planar, it is not always possible to
   maintain a convergent wedge of fluid between containers and the plate. As a result,
20 containers may not always remain completely physically separated from the transfer
   plate. Slight rocking or vibration of containers is expected to propel relatively non
   planar geometrical features on the bottom of containers into direct contact with the
   stationary plate, increasing vibration and rocking, which further increases contact in
   a self-reinforcing spiral.
25          The presence of surface active compounds in the lubricant layer on
   stationary container transfer plates can improve transfer, minimizing rocking,
   chattering, spillage and incidence of machine jamming. While not wishing to be
   bound by theory, it is believed that the role of surface active compounds in
   stationary plate lubrication is to minimize interaction between the container and the
30 plate in the situation of failure of the convergent hydrodynamic fluid layer and
   contact.
            Because a large volume flow of liquid is required to maintain the flooded
   condition of the plate, high concentrations of lubricant compounds have been
                                                  4

   required, generally exceeding about 1500 ppm of lubricant such as Klenz Glide 20
   (an oleic acid lubricant commercially available from Ecolab Inc.) or Lubodrive RX
   (a surfactant lubricant commercially available from Ecolab Inc.). The combination
   of large volume flow and high lubricant concentration results in excessive waste,
 5 cost and environmental impact. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the lubricant
   compounds may be reduced via inactivation caused by water hardness or spilled
   beverage. In the case of inactivation due to water hardness, it may be required to
   soften water used for preparation of lubricant working solution, to use
   environmentally unfriendly sequestrants, or both. Often the only solution to
10 inactivation caused by interaction with spilled beverage is to increase the
   concentration of surface active compounds to allow for some sacrificial loss, which
   means more lubricant and further worsening waste and environmental impact.
   Compositions
            The present disclosure is generally directed to a method of lubricating a
15 stationary transfer plate using a substantially aqueous lubricant composition that
   comprises suspended or emulsified oil. By oil it is meant a water immiscible
   compound or mixture of compounds that are insoluble in water at 25'C and when
   mixed with water give either a second, separated liquid phase or form dispersoids
   (colloidal bodies of a second immiscible phase) which cause the composition to
20 exhibit a Tyndall effect, translucency or opacity. Oil can also include a material that
   is substantially immiscible or insoluble in water, providing less than about 1000
   ppm of solubility.
            The disclosed compositions provide a lubricant film or puddle comprising
   suspended fine sub-micron sized dispersoids of oil that reduces the coefficient of
25 friction between the containers and the stationary transfer plate, minimizing
   chattering, spinning, and product spillage. The lubricant composition may
   preferably be applied to the stationary transfer plate by spraying or it can be applied
   as a continuous stream, as for example by pumping upwardly through vertically
   situated orifices onto the top container-contacting surface of the stationary plate
30 (e.g., as shown in Figure 1).
                                                  5

           The oil may be natural or synthetic. By natural it is meant that the water
   insoluble oil compound is extracted, purified or derived from a natural source
   without chemical alteration or reaction or the making or breaking of covalent bonds.
           In some embodiments, the oil is a water-insoluble oil that may be
 5 incorporated into the lubricant as an emulsion. Therefore, in some embodiments,
   the disclosed compositions include an optional emulsifier. The disclosed
   compositions can also include other additional functional materials.
           The disclosed compositions may be provided as a concentrate or as a ready
   to-use product. The concentrate refers to a product that is diluted to form the ready
10 to-use product. The ready-to-use product refers to the product that is applied to the
   transfer plate. Because the lubricant composition that is applied to the transfer plate
   is mostly water, it may be beneficial to provide the lubricant composition as a
   concentrate that is diluted before being applied to the transfer plate.
   Oil
15         The disclosed compositions include an oil. Exemplary oils (also referred to
   as a lubricant) may be silicone-based or lipophilic-based. Useful oils may be
   mixtures of two or more discrete compounds. Preferred oils, whether as a single
   compound or as a mixture of compounds, are liquids at temperatures above 00 C.
           Silicone-basedlubricants. Exemplary silicone-based lubricants are silicone
20 emulsions. Suitable silicone emulsions made using preferred emulsifiers include
   E2175 high viscosity polydimethylsiloxane (a 60% siloxane emulsion commercially
   available from Lambent Technologies, Inc.), E2140 polydimethylsiloxane (a 35%
   siloxane emulsion commercially available from Lambent Technologies, Inc.), E2140
   FG food grade intermediate viscosity polydimethylsiloxane (a 35% siloxane
25 emulsion commercially available from Lambent Technologies, Inc.), Dow Corning
   HV600 Emulsion (a nonionic 55% trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane
   dispersion available from Dow Coming), Dow Coming 1664 Emulsion (a nonionic
   50% trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from Dow
   Coming), Dow Coming 1101 (an anionic, 50% active emulsion based on silanol
30 terminated high viscosity polydimethylsiloxane available from Dow Coming), Dow
   Coming 346 (a nonionic, 60% active trimethylsilyl terminated
   polydimethylsiloxanes emulsion available from Dow Coming, Midland MI), GE SM
   2068A (an anionic 35% silanol terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion
                                                6

   available from General Electric Silicones, Wilton NY), GE SM 2128 (a nonionic
   35% trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from
   General Electric Silicones), GE SM 2135 (a nonionic 50% trimethylsilyl terminated
   polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from General Electric Silicones), GE SM
 5 2138 (a nonionic 60% silanol terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available
   from General Electric Silicones), GE SM 2140 (a nonionic 50% trimethylsilyl
   terminated polydimethylsiloxanes dispersion available from General Electric
   Silicones), GE SM 2154 (a nonionic 50% methylhexylisopropylbenzyl siloxane
   dispersion available from General Electric Silicones), GE SM 2162 (a nonionic 50%
10 trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from General
   Electric Silicones), GE SM 2163 (a nonionic 60% trimethylsilyl terminated
   polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from General Electric Silicones), GE SM
   2167 (a cationic 50% trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane dispersion
   available from General Electric Silicones), GE SM 2169 (a nonionic 60%
15 trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxanes dispersion available from General
   Electric Silicones), GE SM 2725 (an anionic 50% silanol terminated
   polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from General Electric Silicones), KM 901
   (a nonionic 50% trimethylsilyl terminated polydimethylsiloxanes dispersion
   available from Shin-Etsu Silicones of America, Inc. Akron, OH), Fluid Emulsion
20 E1O (a nonionic 38% silicone emulsion available from Wacker silicones, Adrian,
   MI), Fluid Emulsion E1044 (a nonionic 39% silicone emulsion available from
   Wacker silicones, Adrian, MI), KM 902 (a nonionic 50% trimethylsilyl terminated
   polydimethylsiloxane dispersion available from Shin-Etsu Silicones of America, Inc.
   Akron, OH), and equivalent products. Preferred silicone emulsions typically contain
25 from about 30 wt. % to about 70 wt. % water.
           Non-water-miscible silicone materials (e.g., non-water-soluble silicone fluids
   and non-water-dispersible silicone powders) can also be employed in the lubricant if
   combined with a suitable emulsifier (e.g., nonionic, anionic or cationic emulsifiers).
   Care should be taken to avoid the use of emulsifiers or other surfactants that
30 promote environmental stress cracking in plastic containers.
           Polydimethylsiloxane emulsions are preferred silicone materials.
           Lipophilic-basedlubricants. The oil or lubricant may be a lipophilic
   compound. The lipophilic compound may be described by its chemical structure.
                                               7

   For example, suitable lipophilic compounds include but are not limited to (1) a water
   insoluble organic compound including two or more ester linkages; (2) a water
   insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms; (3) a water
   insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms, one ester group
 5 (which can include two of these oxygen atoms) and one or more remaining or free
   hydroxyl groups; (4) an ester of a long chain carboxylic acid (e.g., a fatty acid) with
   a short chain (i.e., 5 or fewer carbon atoms) alcohol (e.g., methanol); (5) an ester
   including a di-, tri-, or poly-hydric alcohol, such as glycerol, with 2 or more of the
   hydroxyl groups each being coupled to a carboxylic acid as an ester group; and
10 mixtures thereof.
            The lipophilic compounds may also be described by their chemical
   components. For example, suitable lipophilic compounds include esters of
   monocarboxylic fatty acids and di- and poly-carboxylic acid compounds. Suitable
   fatty acid components of the ester include octanoic acid, nonanoic acid, decanoic
15 acid, undecanoic acid, dodecanoic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, or
   mixture thereof. Suitable di- and poly carboxylic acid components of the ester
   include adipic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, sebacic acid, phthalic acid,
   trimellitic acid, and mixtures thereof. In esters with di-, tri-, or poly-hydric alcohols
   suitable carboxylic acid components include those listed above and also, for
20 example, monocarboxylic acid components such as butanoic acid, hexanoic acid,
   heptanoic acid, or mixtures thereof.
            The esters can include any of a variety of alcohol moieties, such as
   monohydric fatty alcohols and di- and polyhydric compounds. Suitable monohydric
   alcohol components of the ester include primary aliphatic alcohols, such as aliphatic
25 hydrocarbon alcohols, for example, methanol, ethanol, and linear and branched
   primary alcohols with 3 to 25 carbon atoms. Suitable di- and poly-hydric alcohol
   components of the ester include those containing from 2 to about 8 hydroxy groups
   such as alkylene glycols, e.g., ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, neopentyl glycol,
   tetraethylene glycol, or mixtures thereof. Additional suitable alcohol components of
30 the ester include glycerine, erythritol, mannitol, sorbitol, glucose,
   trimethylolpropane (TMP), pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol, sorbitan, or mixtures
   thereof.
                                                  8

           The ester can include any of a variety of carboxylic acid and alcohol residues
   that provide a water insoluble (not capable to be dissolved in water to give clear
   solutions at concentrations greater than about 0.1% by weight at room temperature)
   ester that is a liquid, semi-solid, or a low melting solid. In the disclosed lubricant
 5 compositions, the lipophilic compound can be the dispersed phase in a colloidal
   dispersion.
           Suitable lipophilic compounds also include triglycerides, partial glycerides,
   phospholipids, cardiolipids, and the like.
           Triglycerides have the general formula:
10                                           H 2COC(O)R 3 CH3
                                                 I
                                             HCOC(O)R 4 CH 3
                                             H 2 COC(O)R CH   3
                3   4        5
15 in which R , R , and R are independently linear or branched, saturated and/or
   unsaturated, optionally hydroxy- and/or epoxy-substituted residues with 6 to 22, or
   12 to 18 carbon atoms.
           The triglycerides can be of natural origin or produced synthetically. In an
   embodiment, the triglyceride has linear and saturated alkylene residues with chain
20 length between 6 and 22 carbon atoms. They are optionally hydroxy- and/or epoxy
   functionalized substances, such as castor oil or hydrogenated castor oil, epoxidized
   castor oil, ring-opening products of epoxidized castor oils of varying epoxy values
   with water and addition products of on average 1 to 100 mol, 20 to 80 mol, or even
   40 to 60 mol to these cited triglycerides.
25         Suitable triglycerides include those sold under the trade names Myritol 331,
   Myritol 312, Myritol 318, Terradrill V988, the Terradrill EM, which are
   commercially available from Cognis; and Miglyol 812 N and Miglyol 812, which
   are commercially available from Sasol.
           Partial glycerides are monoglycerides, diglycerides and blends thereof,
30 which may also contain small quantities of triglyceride. Suitable partial glycerides
   can have the general formula:
                                             H 2COC(O)R 6CH 3
                                             HCOR7
35                                               I
                                             H2 COR
                                                   9

                6  7       8
   in which R , R and R8 independently represent a linear or branched, saturated
   and/or unsaturated residue with 6 to 22, for example, 12 to 18 carbon atoms or H
   with the proviso that at least one of the two residues R7 and R8 is H.
            Suitable monoglycerides, diglycerides, or triglycerides include esters of
 5 caproic acid, caprylic acid, 2-ethylhexanoic acid, capric acid, lauric acid,
   isotridecanoic acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, stearic acid,
   isostearic acid, oleic acid, elaidic acid, petroselinic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid,
   eleostearic acid, arachic acid, gadoleic acid, behenic acid, erucic acid, or mixtures
   thereof. Suitable glycerides include lauric acid glycerides, palmitic acid glycerides,
10 stearic acid glycerides, isostearic acid glycerides, oleic acid glycerides, behenic acid
   glycerides, erucic acid glycerides, or mixtures thereof and include those displaying a
   monoglyceride content from about 50 to about 95 wt-%, or about 60 to about 90 wt
            Suitable phospholipids include, for example, phosphatidic acids, real
15 lecithins, cardiolipins, lysophospholipids, lysolecithins, plasmalogens,
   phosphosphingolipids, sphingomyelins. Suitable phospholipids include
   phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, or N
   acylphosphatidylethanolamine, or mixture thereof. Suitable phospholipids include
   lecithins. Types of lecithin include crude lecithins which have been deoiled,
20 fractionated, spray-dried, acetylated, hydrolyzed, hydroxylated, or hydrogenated.
   They are available commercially. Suitable lecithins include soybean lecithins. As
   used herein, the general term "lecithin" includes phospholipids.
            Phosphatidic acids are glycerol derivatives which have been esterified in the
   1-sn- and 2-position with fatty acids (1-sn-position: mostly saturated, 2-position:
25 mostly mono- or polyunsaturated), or on atom 3-sn with phosphoric acid. The
   phosphate radical can be esterified with an amino alcohol, such as choline
   (lecithin=3-sn-phophatidylcholine), 2-aminoethanol (ethanolamine), L-serine
   (cephalin=3-sn-phosphatidylethanolamine or sn-phosphatidyl-L-serine), with
   myoinositol to give the phosphoinositides [1-(3-sn-phosphatidyl)-D-myoinositols],
30 with glycerol to give phosphatidyl glycerols.
            Cardiolipins (1,3-bisphosphatidyl glycerols) are phospholipids of two
   phosphatidic acids linked via glycerol. Lysophospholipids are obtained when an
   acyl radical is cleaved off by a phospholipase A from phospholipids (e.g.
                                                   10

   lysolecithins). The phospholipids also include plasmalogens in which an aldehyde
   (in the form of an enol ether) is bonded in the 1-position instead of a fatty acid.
   Phosphosphingolipids are based on the basic structure of sphingosine or else
   phytosphingosine.
 5          Suitable phospholides for use in the present compositions include those sold
   under the trade names Lipoid S 20 S, Lipoid S 75, Lipoid S 100, Lipoid S 100-3,
   Lipoid S 75-3N, Lipoid SL 80, and Lipoid SL 80-3, which are commercially
   available from Lipoid; Phospholipon 85 G, Phospholipon 80, Phospholipon 80 H,
   Phospholipon 90 G, Phospholipon 90 H, Phospholipon 90 NG, Phospholipon 100 H,
10 Phosal 35B, Phosal 50G, Phosal 50SA, Phosal 53MCT, and Phosal 75SA, which are
   commercially available from Phospholipon, Cologne Germany; Alcolec Z-3
   available from American Lecthin Company, Oxford CT; Emulfluid F30, Emulfluid,
   Lipotin NE, Lipotin 100, Lipotin SB, Lipotin 100J, Lipotin H, Lipotin NA, Lipotin
   AH, and Lipopur, which are commercially available from Cargill (Degussa
15 Texturant Systems); Terradrill V 408 and Terradrill V 1075, which are
   commercially available from Cognis; Yellowthin 100, Yellowthin 200, Lecistar Sun
   100, and Yellowthin Sun 200, which are commercially available from Sternchemie;
   and Lanchem PE- 130K available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee, IL.
            Suitable lipophilic compounds also include the following: a partial fatty acid
20 ester of glycerine; a partial or higher fatty acid ester of sorbitan; a fatty acid diester
   of a glycol or a poly(alkylene glycol) compound; a fatty acid ester of a polyol such
   as sucrose, pentaerythritol or dipentaerythritol; a methyl ester of a fatty acid; a fatty
   alcohol ester of benzoic acid; a fatty alcohol ester of phthalic acid or isophthalic
   acid; lanolin or a lanolin derivative; a fatty acid ester of trimethylol propane; or a
25 mixture thereof.
            Suitable partial esters of glycerine with linear or branched long chain
   (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids include glycerol monooleate,
   glycerol monoricinoleate, glycerol monostearate, and glycerol monotallate (e.g.
   Lumulse GMO-K, Lumulse GMR-K, Lumulse GMS-K, and Lumulse GMT-K,
30 available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL and Tegin OV, available from
   Goldschmidt Chemical Corporation, Hopewell, VA), or a mixture thereof. Suitable
   partial glycerides also include those sold under the tradenames Cutina EGMS,
                                                  11

   Cutina GMS-SE, Cutina GMS V, Cutina MD, or Cutina AGS, which are
   commercially available from Cognis.
           Suitable partial and higher sorbitan esters, include for example, di- or tri
   esters with linear or branched long chain (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty
 5 acids, such as such as sorbitan tristearate, and sorbitan triooleate, and sorbitan
   sesquioleate (e.g., Lumisorb STS K, available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee
   IL, and Liposorb TO and Liposorb SQO, available from Lipo Chemicals, Paterson
   NJ), or a mixture of these compounds.
           Suitable diesters of glycol or poly(alkylene glycol) compounds with linear or
10 branched long chain (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids include
   neopentyl glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate and PEG-4 diheptanoate (e.g. Liponate
   NPCG-2 and Liponate 2-DH, available from Lipo Chemicals, Paterson NJ).
           Suitable fatty acid esters of polyols include polyol fatty acid polyesters,
   which term refers to a polyol that has two or more of its hydroxyl groups esterified
15 with linear or branched long chain (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acid
   groups. For example, the polyol can be esterified with four or more fatty acid
   groups. Suitable polyol fatty acid polyesters include sucrose polyesters having on
   average at least four or five ester linkages per molecule of sucrose; the fatty acid
   chains can have from about eight to about twenty-four carbon atoms. Other suitable
20 polyol fatty acid polyesters are esterified linked alkoxylated glycerins, including
   those including polyether glycol linking segments and those including
   polycarboxylate linking segments. Suitable polyols include aliphatic or aromatic
   compounds containing at least two free hydroxyl groups, and can include backbones
   such as saturated and unsaturated straight and branch chain linear aliphatics;
25 saturated and unsaturated cyclic aliphatics, including heterocyclic aliphatics; or
   mononuclear or polynuclear aromatics, including heterocyclic aromatics. Polyols
   include carbohydrates and non-toxic glycols. Suitable fatty acid esters of sucrose
   include the soyate fatty acid ester of sucrose and the stearate fatty acid ester of
   sucrose (e.g. Sefose 1618S and Sefose 1618H, available from Proctor and Gamble
30 Chemicals, Cincinnati OH). Suitable fatty acid esters of pentaerythritol and
   dipentaerythritol include pentaerythrityl tetracaprylate/tetracaprate and
   dipentaerythrityl hexacaprylate/hexacaprate (e.g. Liponate PE-810 and Liponate
   DPC-6 available from Lipo Chemicals, Paterson NJ).
                                                  12

            Suitable methyl esters of fatty acids include methyl palmitate and methyl
   stearate (e.g. CE-1695 and CE-1897, available from Proctor and Gamble Chemicals,
   Cincinnati OH).
            Suitable fatty alcohol esters of benzoic acid include C12-C15 alkyl benzoate
 5 (e.g. Liponate NEB, available from Lipo Chemicals, Paterson NJ).
            Suitable fatty alcohol esters of phthalic acid or isophthalic acid include
   dioctyl phthalate.
            Suitable fatty alcohol esters of trimellitic acid include tridecyl trimellitate
   (e.g. Liponate TDTM, available from Lipo Chemicals, Paterson NJ).
10          Suitable lanolins and lanolin derivatives include hydrogenated lanolin and
   lanolin alcohol (e.g Technical Grade Lanolin, Ritawax, and Supersat available from
   Rita Corporation, Crystal Lake IL).
            Suitable fatty acid esters of trimethylol propane include trimethylol propane
   trioleate and trimethylol propane tricaprate/caprylate (e.g. Synative ES 2964
15 available from Cognis and Priolube 3970 available from Uniqema New Castle, DE).
            In an embodiment, the lipophilic compound is or includes mineral oil.
            In an embodiment, the lipophilic compound is or includes a long chain
   (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acid compound including a fatty acid
   derived from the saponification of vegetable or animal fat or an oil such as tall oil
20 fatty acid, coconut fatty acid, oleic acid, ricinoleic acid, or carboxylic acid
   terminated short chain polymers of hydroxyl functional fatty acids such as ricinoleic
   acid and salts thereof (e.g. Hostagliss L4 available from Clariant Corporation,
   Mount Holly NJ), or a mixture of these compounds. Suitable fatty acid lipophilic
   compounds include caproic acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, oleic acid, stearic acid
25 (e.g. C-698, C-1299, C-1495, OL-800 and V-1890, available from Proctor and
   Gamble Chemicals, Cincinnati OH), or a mixture thereof.
            Exemplified lipophilic compounds include tri(caprate/caprylate) ester of
   glycerine; caprylate, caprate, cocoate triglyceride; soyate fatty acid ester of sucrose;
   diheptanoate ester of poly(ethylene glycol); and trimethylol propane trioleate.
30          Other exemplary oils.
            Synthetic Ester Oil. The oil may be a synthetic ester oil. Suitable synthetic
   ester oils include esters of monocarboxylic fatty acids and mono-, di- and poly
   hydric alcohol compounds. Suitable monocarboxylic fatty acid components of the
                                                  13

   ester include benzoic acid, octanoic acid, nonanoic acid, decanoic acid, undecanoic
   acid, dodecanoic acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, behenic
   acid, or mixture thereof. The esters can include any of a variety of alcohol moieties,
   such as monohydric fatty alcohols and di- and polyhydric compounds. Suitable
 5 monohydric alcohol components of the ester include primary aliphatic alcohols,
   such as aliphatic hydrocarbon alcohols, for example, methanol, ethanol, and linear
   and branched primary alcohols with 3 to 25 carbon atoms. Suitable di- and poly
   hydric alcohol components of the ester include those containing from 2 to about 8
   hydroxy groups such as alkylene glycols, e.g., ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol,
10 neopentyl glycol, tetraethylene glycol, or mixture thereof. Additional suitable
   alcohol components of the ester include glycerine, erythritol, mannitol, sorbitol,
   glucose, sucrose, trimethylolpropane (TMP), pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol,
   sorbitan, or mixture thereof.
            Suitable synthetic ester oils include esters of di- and poly carboxylic acids
15 and monohydric alcohol compounds. Suitable di- and poly carboxylic acid
   components of the ester include adipic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, sebacic
   acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, trimellitic acid, and mixtures thereof. Suitable
   monohydric alcohol components of the ester include primary aliphatic alcohols,
   such as aliphatic hydrocarbon alcohols, for example, methanol, ethanol, and linear
20 and branched primary alcohols with 3 to 25 carbon atoms.
            Synthetic ester oils can include any of a variety of carboxylic acid and
   alcohol residues that provide a water insoluble (not capable to be dissolved in water
   to give clear solutions at concentrations greater than about 0.1% by weight at room
   temperature) ester that is a liquid, semi-solid, or a low melting solid. Preferred
25 synthetic ester oils include synthetically produced triglyceride compounds and
   triesters of trimethylol propane such as trimethylol propane tricocoate, trimethylol
   propane tri(caprate/caprylate), and glycerine tri(caprate/caprylate).
            Free Fatty Acid. The oil may be a free fatty acid. Suitable free fatty acids
   include octanoic acid, nonanoic acid, decanoic acid, undecanoic acid, dodecanoic
30 acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, behenic acid, or mixture
   thereof.
            Hydrocarbon. The oil may include a synthetic or natural hydrocarbon
   compound. Suitable synthetic hydrocarbons include polybutenes such as Indopolm
                                                  14

   (Ineos Oligomers, League City TX), hydrogenated polybutenes such as Panalane TM
   (Ineos Oligomers), poly(alpha olefins) such as SpectraSyns products (ExxonMobil
   Chemical, Houston TX), and synthetic isoparaffinic fluids such as IsoparM
   (ExxonMobil Chemical).
 5         The disclosed ready-to-use compositions may contain between about 0.0001
   wt. % to about 0.15 wt.%, about 0.005 wt.% to about 0.15 wt.%, about 0.001 wt.%
   to about 0.10 wt.%, about 0.001 wt.% to about 0.05 wt.% of oil, about 0.0001 to
   about 0.001 wt.% of oil, or about 0.0005 wt.% to about 0.001 wt.%. The disclosed
   concentrate compositions may contain between about 0.1 wt.% to about 50 wt.%,
10 about 0.5 wt.% to about 20 wt.%, or about 0.5 wt.% to about 5 wt.% of oil. The
   amount of lubricating oil that is applied to the transfer plate is preferably between
   about 1 and about 250 g hour, between about 1 and about 100 mg/hour, or between
   about 1 and about 20 mg/hour.
   Emulsifiers
15         The disclosed compositions may optionally include an emulsifier to help
   solubilize the oil. Exemplary emulsifiers include nonionic surfactants such as:
           (1) mono- and di- esters of glycerine with linear or branched long chain
   (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids, such as glycerol monooleate,
   glycerol monoricinoleate, glycerol monostearate, and glycerol monotallate (e.g.
20 Lumulse GMO-K, Lumulse GMR-K, Lumulse GMS-K, and Lumulse GMT-K,
   available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL and Tegin OV, available from
   Goldschmidt Chemical Corporation, Hopewell, VA), or a mixture of these
   surfactants;
           (2) polyglyceryl monoesters with linear or branched long chain (greater than
25 about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids such as triglycerol monooleate (e.g. Lumulse
   PGO-K, available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL), or a mixture of these
   surfactants;
           (3) ethoxylated mono- and di- esters of glycerine with linear or branched
   long chain (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids such as poly(oxyethylene)
30 glyceryl monolaurate (e.g. Lumulse POE(7) GML and Lumulse POE(20) GMS-K,
   available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (4) sorbitan esters with linear or branched long chain (greater than about 8
   carbon atoms) fatty acids such as sorbitan monolaurate, sorbitan monopalmitate,
                                                 15

   sorbitan monostearate, and sorbitan monooleate (e.g., SPAN series 20, 40, 60, and
   80, available from Uniqema, New Castle, DE and Lumisorb SMO, available from
   Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (5) ethoxylated sorbitan esters with linear or branched long chain (greater
 5 than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids such as polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
   monolaurate (polysorbate 20), polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monopalmitate
   (polysorbate 40), polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate (polysorbate 60), and
   polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate (polysorbate 80) (e.g., TWEEN series 20,
   40, 60, and 80, available from Uniqema, New Castle, DE), or a mixture of these
10 surfactants;
           (6) ethoxylated castor oils such as PEG-5 castor oil, PEG-25 castor oil, and
   PEG-40 castor oil (e.g. Lumulse CO-5, Lumulse CO-25, and Lumulse CO-40
   available from Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (7) mono- and di- esters of ethylene glycol and poly(ethylene glycol) with
15 linear or branched long chain (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids such as
   ethylene glycol distearate, PEG-400 monooleate, PEG-400 monolaurate, PEG-400
   dilaurate, and PEG-4 diheptanoate (e.g. Lipo EGDS available from Lipo Chemicals,
   Paterson NJ, Lumulse 40-OK, Lumulse 40-L, and Lumulse 42-L available from
   Lambent Technologies, Gurnee IL and LIPONATE 2-DH, product of Lipo
20 Chemicals, Inc., Paterson NJ), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (8) EO-PO block copolymers such as poly(ethylene oxide)-poly(propylene
   oxide)-poly(ethylene oxide) block copolymers and poly(propylene oxide)
   poly(ethylene oxide)-poly(propylene oxide) block copolymers (e.g. Pluronic and
   Pluronic R series products available from BASF Corporation, Florham Park NJ), or
25 a mixture of these surfactants;
           (9) alcohol ethoxylates, alcohol propoxylates, and alcohol ethoxylate
   propoxylates formed from the addition of ethylene oxide and/or propylene oxide to
   linear or branched long chain (C8 or greater) fatty alcohols such as poly(ethylene
   oxide) undecyl ether, poly(ethylene oxide) ether with (C12-C15) linear primary
30 alcohols, poly(ethylene oxide) ether with (C14-C15) linear primary alcohols, and
   ethoxylated propoxylated C8-10 alcohols (e.g. Tomadol 1-3 alcohol ethoxylate,
   Tomadol 25-7 alcohol ethoxylate, and Tomadol 45-7 alcohol ethoxylate available
                                                16

   from Air Products, Inc., Allentown PA; and Antarox BL-214 available from Rhodia,
   Cranbury NJ), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (10) alcohol ethoxylates formed from the addition of ethylene oxide to linear
   and branched alkylphenol compounds such as poly(ethylene oxide) ether with nonyl
 5 phenol (e.g. Surfonic N95, available from Huntsman Chemical Corporation, The
   Woodlands TX), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (11) alkylated mono-, di- and oligoglycosides containing 8 to 22 carbon
   atoms in the alkyl group and ethoxylated alkylated mono-, di- and oligoglycosides
   containing 8 to 22 carbon atoms in the alkyl group such as poly(D-glucopyranose)
10 ether with (C8-C14) linear primary alcohols (e.g. Glucopon 425N/HH, available
   from Cognis North America, Cincinnati OH), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (12) amide compounds formed from linear or branched long chain (greater
   than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids such as coconut acid diethanolamide and
   oleic acid diethanolamide (e.g. Ninol 40-CO and Ninol 201, available from Stepan
15 Corporation, Northfield IL and Hostacor DT, available from Clariant Corporation,
   Mount Holly, NC), or a mixture of these surfactants;
           (13) ethoxylate compounds formed from the addition of ethylene oxide to
   amide compounds formed from linear or branched long chain (greater than about 8
   carbon atoms) fatty acids such as poly(ethylene oxide) ether with coconut acid
20 ethanolamide (e.g. Ninol C-5 available from Stepan Corporation, Northfield IL), or
   a mixture of these surfactants;
           (14) nonionic silicone surfactants such as poly(ethylene oxide) ether with
   methyl bis(trimethylsilyloxy) silyl propanol (e.g. Silwet L77 available from
   Momentive Performance Materials, Wilton NJ), or a mixture of these surfactants;
25         (15) trialkyl phosphates, or a mixture of trialkyl phosphates;
           (16) mono- and di- esters of glycerine with linear or branched long chain
   (greater than about 8 carbon atoms) fatty acids further esterified with short chain
   monocarboxylic acids, such as such as glycerol monostearate lactate (e.g. Grindsted
   Lactem P22, available from Danisco, Copenhagen Denmark), or a mixture of these
30 surfactants; or
           (17) a mixture of such surfactants.
           Exemplary emulsifiers include lecithin, ethoxysorbitan monostearate,
   glycerol monooleate, and 20 mole ethoxylated castor oil.
                                                17

           The disclosed compositions may include a combination of emulsifiers,
   including emulsifiers with different HLB values.
           Over time, emulsions tend to revert to the stable state of oil separated from
   water, a process which is retarded by emulsifiers. It is understood that in the context
 5 of the present disclosure that "stable emulsion" does not refer only to systems that
   are thermodynamically stable, but also includes systems in which the kinetics of
   decomposition have been greatly slowed, that is, metastable systems. In certain
   embodiments, the disclosed emulsions do not physically phase separate, exhibit
   creaming or coalescence, or form precipitate. In an embodiment, the emulsion is
10 sufficiently stable that it is stable under conditions at which the disclosed lubricant
   composition is stored and shipped. For example, in an embodiment, the present
   stable emulsion does not phase separate in one month at 4 to 50 'C, or even in two
   months or three months at such temperatures.
           The disclosed ready-to-use compositions may contain between about 0.0001
15 wt.% to about 0.05 wt.%, about 0.0001 wt.% to about 0.02 wt.%, or about 0.0005
   wt.% to about 0.05 wt.% of emulsifier. The disclosed concentrate compositions may
   contain between about 0.1 wt.% to about 10 wt.%, about 0.1wt.% to about 4 wt.%,
   or about 0.1 wt.% to about 1 wt.% of emulsifier.
           In some embodiments, the concentration of oil and emulsifier in the ready
20 to-use composition is less than 5000 ppm, less than 2000 ppm, less than 1500 ppm,
   less than 1000 ppm, or less than 500 ppm.
   Additional Components
           The disclosed compositions may optionally include additional components if
25 desired. For example, the compositions can contain adjuvants such as a hydrophilic
   diluent, an antimicrobial agent, a stabilizing or coupling agent, a surfactant, a
   corrosion inhibitor, a chelant, a pH buffering agent, and water soluble lubricants.
   Hydrophilic Diluent
           Exemplary hydrophilic diluents include water, alcohols such as isopropyl
30 alcohol, polyols such as ethylene glycol and glycerine, ketones such as methyl ethyl
   ketone, and cyclic ethers such as tetrahydrofuran. When present, the hydrophilic
   diluent may make up the majority of the composition that is applied to the transfer
   plate.
                                                  18

   Antimicrobial Agents
            The disclosed compositions may optionally include an antimicrobial agent.
   Exemplary antimicrobial agents include disinfectants, antiseptics, and preservatives.
   Some non-limiting examples include phenols including halo- and nitrophenols and
 5 substituted bisphenols such as 4-hexylresorcinol, 2-benzyl-4-chlorophenol and
   2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenyl ether; organic and inorganic acids and
   corresponding esters and salts such as dehydroacetic acid, peroxycarboxylic acids,
   peroxyacetic acid, peroxyoctanoic acid, methyl p-hydroxy benzoic acid; cationic
   agents such as quaternary ammonium compounds; amine or amine salts such as
10 oleyl diamino propane diacetate, coco diamino propane diacetate, lauryl propyl
   diamine diacetate, dimethyl lauryl ammonium acetate; isothiazolinone compounds
   such as 2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one and 5 -chloro-2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3 -one;
   phosphonium compounds such as tetrakishydroxymethyl phosphonium sulphate
   (THPS), aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde, antimicrobial dyes such as acridines,
15 triphenylmethane dyes and quinines; and halogens including iodine and chlorine
   compounds. The antimicrobial agents can be used in amounts to provide the desired
   antimicrobial properties.
   Stabilizing/CouplingAgents
            The disclosed compositions may optionally include stabilizing agents or
20 coupling agents to keep the composition homogeneous. Exemplary stabilizing or
   coupling agents include isopropyl alcohol, ethanol, urea, octane sulfonate, and
   glycols such as hexylene glycol, propylene glycol and the like.
   Detergents/DispersingAgents
            The disclosed composition may optionally include detergents or dispersing
25 agents. Some examples of detergents and dispersants include alkyl benzene sulfonic
   acid, alkylphosphonic acids, and their calcium, sodium, and magnesium salts,
   polybutenylsuccinic acid derivatives, silicone surfactants, fluorosurfactants, and
   molecules containing polar groups attached to an oil-solubilizing aliphatic
   hydrocarbon chain.
30          Some examples of suitable dispersing agents include alkoxylated fatty alkyl
   monoamines and diamines such as coco bis (2-hydroxyethyl)amine,
   polyoxyethylene (5)-coco amine, polyoxyethylene(15)coco amine, tallow bis(
                                               19

   2hydroxyethyl)amine, polyoxyethylene(15)amine, polyoxyethylene(5)oleyl amine
   and the like.
   CorrosionInhibitors
            The disclosed compositions may optionally include a corrosion inhibitor.
 5 Exemplary corrosion inhibitors include polycarboxylic acids such as short chain
   carboxylic diacids, triacids, as well as phosphate esters and combinations thereof.
   Useful phosphate esters include alkyl phosphate esters, monoalkyl aryl phosphate
   esters, dialkyl aryl phosphate esters, trialkyl aryl phosphate esters, and mixtures
   thereof such as Emphos PS 236 commercially available from Witco Chemical
10 Company. Other useful corrosion inhibitors include the triazoles, such as
   benzotriazole, tolyltriazole and mercaptobenzothiazole, and in combinations with
   phosphonates such as 1-hydroxyethylidene-1, 1-diphosphonic acid, and surfactants
   such as oleic acid diethanolamide and sodium cocoamphohydroxy propyl sulfonate,
   and the like. Useful corrosion inhibitors include polycarboxylic acids such as
15 dicarboxylic acids. The acids which are preferred include adipic, glutaric, succinic,
   and mixtures thereof.
   Chelants
            The disclosed compositions may optionally include a chelating agent or
   sequestrant. Exemplary sequestrants include ethylene diamine tetracetic acid
20 (EDTA), iminodisuccinic acid sodium salt, trans-1,2-diaminocyclohexane tetracetic
   acid monohydrate, diethylene triamine pentacetic acid, sodium salt of nitrilotriacetic
   acid, pentasodium salt of N-hydroxyethylene diamine triacetic acid, trisodium salt of
   N,N-di(beta-hydroxyethyl)glycine, sodium salt of sodium glucoheptonate, and the
   like.
25 Water Soluble Lubricants
            The disclosed compositions may optionally include a water-miscible or
   water soluble lubricant. Exemplary water soluble lubricants include hydroxy
   containing compounds such as polyols (e.g., glycerol and propylene glycol);
   polyalkylene glycols (e.g., CarbowaxTM series of polyethylene and
30 methoxypolyethylene glycols), linear copolymers of ethylene and propylene oxides
   (e.g., UconTM 50-HB-100 water-soluble ethylene oxide:propylene oxide copolymer)
   and sorbitan esters (e.g., the TweenTM series 20, 40, 60, 80, and 85 polyoxyethylene
   sorbitan monooleates and SpanTM series 20, 80, 83 and 85 sorbitan esters). Other
                                                 20

   exemplary water-miscible lubricants include phosphate esters and amines and their
   derivatives. Derivatives such as partial esters or ethoxylates of the above lubricants
   can also be used. In some embodiments, the disclosed compositions are
   substantially free of a water-miscible lubricant.
 5
   Methods of Use
            Can or container transfer applications involve flooding a transfer plate with a
   lubricant composition diluted in water. The transfer plate may be made out of an
   assortment of materials including stainless steel or ultra-high molecular weight
10 polyethylene. The plate typically has holes in the bottom with nozzles or bubblers
   in communication with holes for dispensing the lubricant composition onto the plate.
   For transfer plate lubrication, bubblers are the most common method of applying
   lubricant to the transfer plate. It is understood, however, that spray nozzles may also
   spray lubricant onto the top and side of the transfer plate, either alone or in
15 conjunction with the bubblers underneath the transfer plate.
            As previously mentioned, lubrication of transfer plates is typically provided
   by maintaining the plate surface flooded with an aqueous lubricant composition. By
   flooded it is meant that the plate is substantially immersed by a puddle of aqueous
   lubricant composition with a coverage of about 0.05 to about 0.2 mL/cm 2 (about 0.5
20 to 2 mm depth). A transfer plate may have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 bubblers. In order to
   flood the transfer plate, the each bubbler preferably dispenses from about 1 to about
   10 gallons, from about 2 to about 8 gallons, or from about 6 to about 8 gallons of
   ready-to-use lubricant composition per hour. During operation, the nozzles may
   flood the plate continuously or discontinuously.
25          The disclosed lubricants can be used with a variety of containers that may be
   transferred across a stationary transfer plate, including beverage containers, food
   containers, household or commercial cleaning product containers, and containers for
   oils, antifreeze, or other industrial fluids. The containers may be made of a wide
   variety of materials including glass, plastic (e.g., polyolefins such as polyethylene
30 and polypropylene; polystyrenes, polyesters such as PET and polyethylene
   naphthalate (PEN), polyamides, polycarbonates, and mixtures or copolymers
   thereof), metals (e.g. aluminum, tin or steel), paper (e.g., untreated, treated, waxed
   or coated papers), ceramics, and laminates or composites or two or more of these
                                                  21

  materials (e.g., laminates of PET, PEN or mixtures thereof with another plastic
  material). The containers can have a variety of sizes and forms, including cartons
  (e.g., waxed cartons or TETRAPAKTM boxes), cans, bottles, and the like.
          Various modifications and alteration of this disclosure will be apparent to
5 those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention
  and are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.
                                                22

WE CLAIM:
1.     A method of lubricating a stationary transfer plate comprising diluting a
       concentrated lubricant composition to form a dilute lubricant composition and
       applying the dilute lubricant composition to a stationary transfer plate, the dilute
       lubricant composition comprising
                from about 0.0001 wt.% to about 0.05% of an oil;
                an emulsifier; and
                water.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the dilute lubricant composition is applied from
       at least one nozzle or bubbler under the transfer plate at a rate of about 2 to 10
       gallons of dilute lubricant composition per hour per nozzle or bubbler.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the oil is a silicone oil.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the oil is selected from the group consisting of
       (a) a water insoluble organic compound including two or more ester linkages;
       (b) a water insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms;
       (c) a water insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms,
       one ester group and one or more remaining or free hydroxyl groups;
       (d) an ester of a long chain carboxylic acid with a short chain alcohol;
       (e) an ester including a di-, tri-, or poly-hydric alcohol with 2 or more of the
       hydroxyl groups each being coupled to a carboxylic acid as an ester group; and
       (f) mixtures thereof.
5.     The method of claim 1, wherein the emulsifier is a nonionic surfactant.
6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the oil is present from about 0.0005 wt.% to
       about 0.001 wt.%.
7.     The method of claim 2, wherein the dilute lubricant composition is applied from
       up to 6 nozzles or bubblers.
8.     The method of claim 2, wherein the dilute lubricant composition is applied at a
       rate of about 6 to about 8 gallons per hour per nozzle or bubbler.
9.     The method of claim 1, wherein the dilute lubricant composition is applied
continuously.
                                               23

                                                   24
 10.    The method of claim 1, wherein the dilute lubricant composition is applied
discontinuously.
 11.    A method of lubricating a stationary transfer plate comprising:
        applying a lubricant composition to a stationary transfer plate, the lubricant
        composition comprising
                from about 0.0001 wt.% to about I wt.% of an oil;
                an emulsifier; and
                water
        wherein the lubricant composition is applied from at least one nozzle underneath
        the transfer plate at a rate of about 6 to about 8 gallons of lubricant composition
       per hour per nozzle.
12.    The method of claim 11, wherein the oil is a silicone oil.
13.    The method of claim 11, wherein the oil is selected from the group consisting of
        (a) a water insoluble organic compound including two or more ester linkages;
        (b) a water insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms;
        (c) a water insoluble organic compound including three or more oxygen atoms,
       one ester group and one or more remaining or free hydroxyl groups;
        (d) an ester of a long chain carboxylic acid with a short chain alcohol;
        (e) an ester including a di-, tri-, or poly-hydric alcohol with 2 or more of the
       hydroxyl groups each being coupled to a carboxylic acid as an ester group; and
        (f) mixtures thereof.
14.    The method of claim 11, wherein the emulsifier is a nonionic surfactant,
15.    The method of claim 11, wherein the oil is present from about 0.0005 wt.% to
       about 0.001 wt.%.
16.    The method of claim 11, wherein the lubricant composition is applied from up to
       6 nozzles or bubblers.
17.    The method of claim 11, wherein the lubricant composition is applied
continuously.
18.    The method of claim 11, wherein the lubricant composition is applied
discontinuously.
                                          Ecolab USA Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
