ABSTRACT
A foldable aircraft wing, comprising:
       a first wing section having a first wing spar;
       a second wing section having a second wing spar wherein in a flight configuration the
       first wing spar is coupled to the second wing spar forming a wing spar juncture to
       transfer aerodynamic loads between the first wing section and the second wing
       section;
       an extension device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing spar,
       pivotally coupling the first wing section to the second wing section, wherein
       responsive to decoupling the first wing spar from the second wing spar the extension
       device extends the first wing section apart from the second wing section along a
       lateral axis substantially parallel with the first wing spar, rotates the first wing section
       about the lateral axis, and pivots the first wing section at a pivot point associated with
       the second wing section, to a transportable configuration; and
       two or more shear pins, fixed to the first wing spar, coupling the first wing spar to the
       second wing spar wherein each of the two or more shear pins includes a first pin
       diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed among the
       first pin diameter and the second pin diameter.

1/17
CDC
     LO CD

                          MANUAL WING-FOLD MECHANISM
RELATED APPLICATION
[0ELAI The present application relates to and claims the benefit of priority to United
       States Provisional Patent Application no. 61/858,825 filed July 26, 2013 and
       United States Non-Provisional Patent Application no. 14/335,083 filed July 18,
       2014 which are both hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
       purposes as if fully set forth herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention.
[0002] Embodiments of the present invention relate, in general, to a manual mechanism
       to fold a wing on an aircraft and more particularly to a manual wing-fold
       mechanism having independent load paths for flight loads and loads supporting
       the wing during the folding operation.
Relevant Background.
[0003] Despite the technological advances in aviation, one only has to spend some time
       observing nature to recognize that many challenges with respect to aviation still
       lie before us. It has long been recognized that aircraft are difficult to house on the
       ground. They are by their very nature, awkward large crafts. The gangly wings
       and fuselage require a large space by which to cover and protect the craft from the
       elements. And as agile as an aircraft may be once airborne, its movement on the
       ground is one of lumbering cautiousness.
[0004] Yet a bird, as it smoothly transitions from flight to rest on a dowel, can quickly
       and efficiently fold its wings and squeeze through a hole not much larger than the
                                              -1-

        size of its head. So it is not surprising that an efficient and timely means for
        stowing an aircraft's wings to aid in transportation and storage is a long felt need.
 [00051 Several approaches for folding the wings of an aircraft to reduce its overall size
        have been developed. Many modem-day aircraft, especially military aircraft, are
        equipped with wing sections that can be folded or placed into a position that when
        not deployed for flight operations offers the ability for the aircraft to be stored and
        transported in a much more efficient manner. Examples of such aircraft include
        carrier-based aircraft in which the wings fold for compact storage and
        maintenance below deck. Other examples include sailplanes, which upon landing
        in locations away for their normal base of operations possess the ability to remove
        the wings so that the aircraft can be quickly loaded on a trailer for transportation.
[0006] In aircraft in which the wings fold but remain attached to the fuselage, the
        mechanisms must securely lock the wings in the deployed position for flying and
        also secure the wings in their folded position so that they are not inadvertently
        damaged from wind gusts or the like. As the wings are substantial components of
        the aircraft, they represent a significant amount of mass and are designed to
        translate aerodynamic loads from the wingtip to the wing root. These loads are
        conveyed via one or more spars that run along the length of the wing parallel to
        the lateral or pitch axis of the aircraft.
[0007] Typically, a folding mechanism utilizes these same large structural components,
        spars, to support the folding and/or rotation of the wing. While seemingly an
        efficient use of the wing's inherent structure, the complexity and necessary
        robustness of such a mechanism comes at the cost of weight. In large military
        aircraft this additional complexity and added weight is minimal in comparison to
        other design criteria, such as the structural requirements for landing on a carrier or
        for carrying external ordinance. However, in light recreational or utility aircraft,
        the weight and complexity of such a folding mechanism is unacceptable.
[0008] The most efficient use of space in which to store the wings is to align the wings in
        some manner with the fuselage. Generally such a mechanism uses a single motion
                                               -2-

       to pivot the wings through an axis oblique to the fuselage. The Grumman
       Corporation carrier based aircraft use this type of wing-fold. A single motion
       fold, however, possesses some undesirable characteristics. For example, such a
       fold mechanism requires a section of the upper and lower wing surface to be
       removed or repositioned so that the folding portion does not intersect with the
       stationary portion. Single motion folds also create center of gravity concerns
       making the aircraft unstable during ground operations.
[0009] Therefore, what is needed is a wing-fold mechanism that is simple, robust and
       lightweight. Moreover, it is desirable that the folding mechanism be separate
       from the inherent structure of the wing that transfers aerodynamic loads from the
       wingtip to the wing root and that it be a manual process operable by a single
       individual. These and other challenges of the prior art are addressed by one or
       more embodiment of the present invention.
[0010] Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in
       part in the description that follows, and in part will become apparent to those
       skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be
       learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be
       realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities, combinations,
       compositions, and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       Accordingly, in one broad form of the present invention, there is provided
        a foldable aircraft wing, comprising:
        a first wing section having a first wing spar;
                                          -3-

a second wing section having a second wing spar wherein in a flight
configuration the first wing spar is coupled to the second wing spar
forming a wing spar juncture to transfer aerodynamic loads between the
first wing section and the second wing section;
an extension device, independent of the first wing spar and the second
wing spar, pivotally coupling the first wing section to the second wing
section, wherein responsive to decoupling the first wing spar from the
second wing spar the extension device extends the first wing section apart
from the second wing section along a lateral axis substantially parallel
with the first wing spar, rotates the first wing section about the lateral
axis, and pivots the first wing section at a pivot point associated with the
second wing section, to a transportable configuration; and
two or more shear pins, fixed to the first wing spar, coupling the first
wing spar to the second wing spar wherein each of the two or more shear
pins includes a first pin diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a
shear load is distributed among the first pin diameter and the second pin
diameter.
In yet another broad form of the present invention, there is provided a
system for modifying a wing from a transportable configuration to a flight
configuration, the system comprising:
a first wing spar associated with a first wing section and wherein the first
wing section in the transportable configuration is substantially orthogonal
to a second wing section;
 a second wing spar associated with the second wing section wherein the
 first wing spar is attachable to the second wing spar at a wing spar
juncture and wherein the first wing spar overlaps with the second wing
 spar;
                                -3A-

        a folding device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing
        spar, coupling the first wing section to the second wing section and
        configured to position the first wing section from the transportable
        configuration to the flight configuration so as to associate the first wing
        spar with the second wing spar at the wing spar juncture; and
        two or more shear pins, fixed to the first wing spar, coupling the first
        wing spar to the second wing spar wherein each of the two or more shear
        pins includes a first pin diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a
        shear load is distributed among the first pin diameter and the second pin
        diameter.
[0011] A manual wing-fold mechanism and associated methodology enables a single
       user to disconnect, extend, rotated and pivot the outboard section of a wing to a
       storable and transportable position along side the fuselage of the aircraft. One
       embodiment of the wing fold mechanism of the present invention includes a wing
       having a first wing section associated with a wing tip and a first wing section spar,
       and a second wing section associated with a wing root and a second wing section
                                         -3B-

       spar, wherein the wing in flight configuration is associated with a lateral axis
       spanning from the wingtip to the root. The mechanism further includes a plurality
       of shear pins operable to couple the first wing section spar to the second wing
       section spar wherein the plurality of shear pins are substantially parallel to the
       lateral axis. Moreover, the wing-fold mechanism includes a folding apparatus
       coupling the first wing section and the second wing section wherein the folding
       apparatus is operable to extend the first wing section from the second wing
       section along the lateral axis, rotate the first wing about the lateral axis and pivot
       the first wing section about a vertical axis perpendicular to the lateral axis placing
       the first wing section spar substantially perpendicular to the second wing section
       spar and aligned with the fuselage.
[00121 Some additional features of the invention include that the transfer
       of aerodynamic loads is independent of the folding apparatus. In addition, when
       the wing is in flight configuration, a portion of the first wing spar overlaps with a
       portion of the second wing section spar. Shear pins that couple the outboard wing
       section to the inboard wing section are operable to transfer in-flight aerodynamic
       loads from the first wing section to the second wing section. In one embodiment
       of the present invention, the shear pins are associated with the outboard portion of
       the wing, while the sockets that receive the shear pins are associated with the
       inboard section of the wing. The shear pins also each include a first diameter and
       a second diameter, wherein a shear load is distributed among the first diameter
       and the second diameter as it transfers aerodynamic forces from one wing section
       to the other.
[00131 According to another embodiment of the present invention, a foldable aircraft
       wing includes a first wing section having a first wing spar, a second wing section
       having a second wing spar, and an extension device pivotally coupling the first
       wing section to the second wing section.
[0014] When the wing is in a flight configuration, the first wing spar is coupled to the
       second wing spar forming a wing spar juncture operable to transfer aerodynamic
                                              -4-

        loads between the first wing section and the second wing section. When the first
        wing spar decouples from the second wing spar the extension device is operable
        to extend the first wing section apart from the second wing section along a lateral
        axis substantially parallel with the first wing spar, rotate the first wing section
        about the lateral axis, and pivot at a pivot point associated with the second wing
        section, to a transportable configuration.
[0015] In yet another embodiment of the present invention, a system for modifying a
       wing from a transportable configuration to a flight configuration includes a first
       wing spar associated with a first wing section wherein the first wing section in the
       transportable configuration is substantially orthogonal to a second wing section,
        and a second wing spar associated with the second wing section wherein the first
       wing spar is attachable to the second wing spar at a wing spar juncture.
[0016] The system also includes a folding device, independent of the first wing spar and
       the second wing spar, that couples the first wing section to the second wing
       section and is operable to position the first wing section from the transportable
       configuration to the flight configuration so as to associate the first wing spar with
       the second wing spar at the wing spar juncture
[00171 Finally, the foldable aircraft wing includes a plurality of shear pins that couple the
       first wing spar to the second wing spar. Each of the shear pins includes a first pin
       diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load between the two
       wing sections is distributed between the first pin diameter and the second pin
       diameter.
[0018] The features and advantages described in this disclosure and in the following
       detailed description are not all-inclusive. Many additional features and
       advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art in view of
       the drawings, specification, and claims hereof. Moreover, it should be noted that
                                            -5-

       the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability
       and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or
       circumscribe the inventive subject matter; reference to the claims is necessary to
       determine such inventive subject matter.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019] The aforementioned and other features and objects of the present invention and
       the manner of attaining them will become more apparent, and the invention itself
       will be best understood, by reference to the following description of one or more
       embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0020] Figure 1 is a front perspective view of an aircraft equipped with a manual wing
       fold mechanism of the present invention wherein the wing is in a flight
       configuration;
[0021] Figure 2 is a front perspective view of an aircraft equipped with a manual wing
       fold mechanism of the present invention in which the outboard wing section has
       been extended;
[0022] Figure 3 is a front perspective view of an aircraft equipped with a manual wing
       fold mechanism of the present invention in which the outboard wing section is
       extended and rotated 90 degrees;
[0023] Figure 4 is a side perspective view of an aircraft equipped with a manual wing
       fold mechanism of the present invention in which the outboard section of the
       wing has been folded back and is aligned with the fuselage of the aircraft;
[00241 Figure 5 is a side perspective view of an aircraft equipped with a manual wing
        fold mechanism of the present invention in which the outboard section of the
       wing has been folded back, aligned with the fuselage of the aircraft, and
       positioned forward for storage and transportation;
                                            -6-.

[00251 Figure 6A is a cut away perspective view the juncture of the outboard and inboard
       wing spar as associated with the manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
       invention;
[0026] Figure 6B is a top view of the wing spar juncture and wing-fold mechanism
       according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[00271 Figure 7 is a front right perspective cut away view of one embodiment of the
       wing-fold mechanism of the present invention in which the outboard wing is in an
       extended position;
[0028] Figure 8 is a top view of one embodiment of the wing-fold mechanism of the
       present invention in which the outbound wing is in an extended and partially
       folded configuration;
[0029] Figure 9 is an rear side perspective view of outboard portion of the wing and
       wing-fold mechanism according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[00301 Figure 10 is a side cut away view of a spar pin used in conjunction with one
       embodiment of a wing-fold mechanism of the present invention;
[0031] Figure 11 is a front tower perspective drawing of the outboard surface of the
       inboard wing section and shear pin locking mechanism according to one
       embodiment of the present invention;
[0032] Figure 12 is an perspective view of a wing rib and wing-fold mechanism floating
       guide according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[0033] Figure 13 is a detailed view of the wing-fold mechanism floating guide according
       to one embodiment of the present invention;
                                             -7-

[0034] Figure 14 is a front upper perspective view of a rotational guide for positioning
       the outboard wing for storage and juncture with the inboard wing section
       according to one embodiment of the present invention;
[0035] Figure 15 is a flowchart of a methodology to fold and store a wing section using
       one embodiment of the wing-fold mechanism of the present invention; and
[0036] Figure 16 is a flowchart of a methodology to unfold and place a wing section into
       its flight configuration using one embodiment of the wing-fold mechanism of the
       present invention.
[0037] The Figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of
       illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following
       discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated
       herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention
       described herein.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0038] Described hereafter by way of example, is a manual wing-fold mechanism that
       decouples an outboard wing section from an inboard wing section and repositions
       the outboard wing section so as to be substantially aligned with the longitudinal
       axis of the aircraft (fuselage) for storage and transportation. The wing-fold
       mechanism of the present invention is independent of the primary spar structure
       within the wing used to transfer aerodynamic loads between the wingtip and the
       wing root. According to one embodiment of the present invention, a first wing
       spar, associated with the outboard section of the wing and, a second wing spar,
       associated with the inner portion of the wing, overlap when placed into a flight
       configuration. Shear pins join the first wing spar to the second wing spar forming
       a functionally singular wing spar along the entire span of the wing.
[0039] Upon electing to reconfigure the wing to its folded configuration, locking pins
       securing the placement of the shear pins within their sockets are removed, freeing
       the first wing section (outboard) from the second wing section (inboard). The
                                              -8-

       outboard wing section is extended away from the inboard wing section along the
       lateral axis of the aircraft upon a single extension tube. Upon full displacement,
       the extension tube serves as the sole point of interaction between the outboard
       section and the inboard section. The outboard wing section is thereafter rotated
       about the lateral axis until outboard wing section is substantially perpendicular to
       the inboard wing section. Next, the rotated outboard wing section is pivoted
       rearward about a pivot point at the juncture between the extension tube and
       inboard wing section. Once the outboard wing is folded rearward so as to be
       substantially aligned with, and parallel to, the longitudinal axis of the aircraft, the
       outboard wing section is repositioned forward along the longitudinal axis
       contracting the extension tube and placing the outboard wing section into close
       proximity with the inboard wing section for transport. In this position the
       outbound wing section is secured for storage and/or transportation.
[0040] Embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described in detail with
       reference to the accompanying Figures. Although the invention has been
       described and illustrated with a certain degree of particularity, it is understood
       that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that those
       skilled in the art can resort to numerous changes in the combination and
       arrangement of parts without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
[0041] The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is
       provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments
       of the present invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes
       various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded
       as merely exemplary. Accordingly, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize
       that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can
       be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Also,
       descriptions of well-known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and
       conciseness.
                                              -9-

[0042] The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited
       to the bibliographical meanings, but are merely used by the inventor to enable a
       clear and consistent understanding of the invention. Accordingly, it should be
       apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary
       embodiments of the present invention are provided for illustration purpose only
       and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended
       claims and their equivalents.
[0043] By the term "substantially" it is meant that the recited characteristic, parameter, or
       value need not be achieved exactly, but that deviations or variations, including for
       example, tolerances, measurement error, measurement accuracy limitations and
       other factors known to those of skill in the art, may occur in amounts that do not
       preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.
[0044] A wing "Spar" is often the main structural member of the wing, running spanwise
       at right angles (or thereabouts depending on wing sweep) to the fuselage. The spar
       carries flight loads when airborne and the weight of the wings while on the
       ground. Other structural and forming members such as ribs (see below) may be
       attached to the spar or spars, with stressed skin construction also sharing the loads
       where it is used. Where a single spar carries the majority of the forces on it, it is
       known as the main spar.
[00451 An aircraft "Rib' is a forming elements of the structure of a wing, especially in
       traditional construction.    By analogy, the ribs attach to the main spar, and by
       being repeated at frequent intervals, form a skeletal shape for the wing. Usually
       ribs incorporate the airfoil shape of the wing, and the skin adopts this shape when
       stretched over the ribs.
[0046] The "Leading Edge" is the part of the wing that first contacts the air and is
       typically the foremost edge of an airfoil section. As an example of the distinction,
       during a tailslide, from an aerodynamic point of view, the trailing edge becomes
       the leading edge and vice-versa but from a structural point of view the leading
       edge remains unchanged.
                                            -10-

[0047] The "Trailing Edge" of an aerodynamic surface is its rear edge, where the airflow
       separated by the leading edge rejoins. Essential control surfaces are attached to
       the trailing edge to redirect the airflow and exert a controlling force by changing
       its momentum. Such control surfaces include ailerons on the wings for roll
       control, elevators on the tailplane controlling pitch and the rudder on the tail to
       control yaw.
[0048] The "Wing Root is the part of the wing on a fixed-wing aircraft that is closest to
       the fuselage. By analogy the Wing Tip" is the part of the wing that is most distant
       from the fuselage of a fixed-wing aircraft.
[0049] In the figures that follow, like numbers refer to like elements throughout. In the
       figures, the sizes of certain lines, layers, components, elements or features may be
       exaggerated for clarity.
[0050] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
       embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used
       herein, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural
       forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus, for example,
       reference to "a component surface" includes reference to one or more of such
       surfaces.
[0051] As used herein any reference to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
       that a particular element, feature, structure, or characteristic described in
       connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The
       appearances of the phrase "in one embodiment" in various places in the
       specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
[0052] As used herein, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "includes," "including,"
       "has," "having" or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non
       exclusive inclusion. For example, a process, method, article, or apparatus that
                                              -11-

       comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but
       may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process,
       method, article, or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to the contrary, "or"
       refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example, a condition A or
       B is satisfied by any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or
       not present), A is false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and
       B is true (or present).
[0053] Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used
       herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill
       in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms,
       such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as
       having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the
       specification and relevant art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or
       overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein. Well-known functions or
       constructions may not be described in detail for brevity and/or clarity.
[00541 It will be also understood that when an element is referred to as being "on,"
       "attached" to, "connected" to, "coupled" with, "contacting", "mounted" etc.,
       another element, it can be directly on, attached to, connected to, coupled with or
       contacting the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In
       contrast, when an element is referred to as being, for example, "directly on,"
       "directly attached" to, "directly connected" to, "directly coupled" with or
       "directly contacting" another element, there are no intervening elements present.
       It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure
       or feature that is disposed "adjacent" another feature may have portions that
       overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.
[0055] Spatially relative terms, such as "under," "below," "lower," "over," "upper" and
       the like, may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or
       feature's relationship to another element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in the
       figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to
                                            -12-

       encompass different orientations of a device in use or operation in addition to the
       orientation depicted in the figures. For example, if a device in the figures is
       inverted, elements described as "under" or "beneath" other elements or features
       would then be oriented "over" the other elements or features. Thus, the exemplary
       term "under" can encompass both an orientation of "over" and "under". The
       device may be otherwise oriented (rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations) and
       the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly. Similarly,
       the terms "upwardly," "downwardly, ".      .vertical," "horizontal" and the like are
       used herein for the purpose of explanation only unless specifically indicated
       otherwise.
[0056] Also included in the description are flowcharts depicting examples of the
       methodology that may be used to fold a wing of an aircraft using the manual
       wing-fold mechanism of the present invention. In the following description, it
       will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations, and combinations
       of blocks in the flowchart illustrations, can be implemented a variety of ways.
[0057] Accordingly, blocks of the flowchart illustrations support combinations of means
       for performing a specified function and combinations of steps for performing
       specified function. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart
       illustrations, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations, can be
       implemented by special purpose hardware systems that perform the specified
       functions or steps, or combinations of special purpose hardware and instructions.
[00581 Upon reading this disclosure, those of skill in the art will appreciate still
       additional alternative structural and functional designs for a manual wing-fold
       mechanism and a process for manually folding a wing through the disclosed
       principles herein. Thus, white particular embodiments and applications have been
       illustrated and described, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are
       not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various
                                             -13-

       modifications, changes and variations, which will be apparent to those skilled in
       the art, may be made in the arrangement, operation and details of the method and
       apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in
       the appended claims.
[0059] An understanding of the inventive material disclosed herein can be gained with
       reference to the included Figures including Figure 1. Figure 1 through Figure 5
       presents temporal renditions of the manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
       invention as it is used to fold a wing from its flight configuration to one for
       storage and/or transportation. Figure 1 is a right front elevated perspective view
       of an aircraft that includes a manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
       invention. In the configuration shown in Figure 1, the wing is in its flight
       configuration.
[0060] The aircraft shown in Figure 1, and for the purposes of this discussion, includes
       three primarily axis for orientation. They include the lateral or pitch axis 110, the
       longitudinal or roll axis 120 and the vertical or yaw axis 130. The aircraft
       depicted in Figure 1 includes a wing configured for flight operations that extends
       from wingtip 140 to wing root 150. According to one embodiment of the present
       invention, the wing is divided at a juncture point 160. Outboard of the juncture
       point 160 is the outboard or first wing section associated with the wing tip 140.
       Inboard of the juncture point 160 is the inboard or second wing section and is
       associated with the wing root 150. As with most wings in an aircraft, the wing
       comprises a plurality of ribs and spars. The spars run parallel to the lateral
       (pitch) axis 110 while the ribs run parallel to the longitudinal (roll) axis 120. The
       main wing spar is typically responsible for the transfer of aerodynamic loads
       along the lateral axis 110. According to one embodiment of the present invention
       the first wing section includes a first wing section spar 180, and the second wing
       section includes a second wing section spar 190. The first wing section spar 180
       and the second wing section spar 190 begin to overlap at the juncture 160 and are
       coupled by a plurality of shear pins (not shown). In other embodiments, the
                                            -14-

       aircraft wing may posses two or more main wing spars and they may or may not
       overlap.
[0061] Figure 2 is a right front elevated perspective view of an aircraft having a manual
       wing-fold mechanism of the present invention in which the first wing section is in
       its extended position. As shown in Figure 2 the first wing section 210 extends
       outboard along the lateral axis 110 from the longitudinal and vertical axis and
       away from the second wing section 220. The second wing section 220 remains
       affixed to the fuselage.
[0062] Significantly and according to one embodiment of the present invention, the first
       wing section spar 180 separates and becomes apart from the second wing section
       spar 190. As is apparent in Figure 2, when the first wing section is in a flight
       configuration and not extended, the first wing section spar 180 and the second
       wing section spar 190 overlap. As the first wing section 210 is pulled away from
       the second wing section 220 by a user the continuity of the main wing spar is
       broken and can no longer be used to convey loads including the structural weight
       of the first wing section. Thus as the first wing section 210 is extended an
       extension tube 230 acts as the sole coupling between the first wing section 210
       and the second wing section 220. Said differently, the folding mechanism of the
       present invention is independent of the structural members of the wing that
       support and transfer aerodynamic loads.
[0063] Turning attention in addition to Figure 3, another right front elevated perspective
       view of the aircraft with the manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
       invention can be seen. In this temporal depiction, the extended first wing section
       210 is extended and rotated approximately 90 degrees counterclockwise. One of
       reasonable skill in the relevant art will appreciate that the current drawings depict
       the starboard or right wing and the motions discussed herein would be mirror by
       the port of left wing. At this point the first wing section 210 is supported by user,
                                            -15-

       presumably at the wing tip, holding and manipulating the wing, and by the
       extension tube 230 at the second wing section juncture 160. The extension tube
       230, in this embodiment of the present invention, extends from and is housed
       within the first wing section 210 and is pivotally joined to the second wing section
       220 at a pivot point 310. In another embodiment of the present invention, the
       extension tube can be housed within the second wing section 220 or a
       combination thereof.
[0064] Figure 4 is a side perspective view of an aircraft with one embodiment of a wing
       fold mechanism of the present invention. In this view the first wing section has
       been folded rearward at the pivot point 310. The wing is rotated about the vertical
       axis and aligned with the fuselage so as to be parallel with the longitudinal axis.
       In one embodiment of the present invention, the first wing section 210 remains
       extended along the axis of the extension tube 230. To relieve stress on the
       extension tube and to make the aircraft more compact and stable for transport, the
       first wing section 210 is translated forward along the longitudinal axis as depicted
       in Figure 5. As shown, the extension tube 230 in this embodiment is fully housed
       within the first wing section 210 and, as discussed hereafter, secured from further
       rotation. Another feature of the present invention is that the wing in its folded and
       stowed position can be coupled at the wing tip 140 to the horizontal stabilizer
       510. This releases or reduces any additional stress that the extension tubes and/or
       pivot point may experience while the first wing section is in the stowed
       configuration.
[0065] The process for restoring the wing to a flight configuration from its stowed
       configuration is merely the reverse process of that described above. The first
       wing section is uncoupled from the horizontal tail and extended rearward until the
       extension tube is at a point of full travel. A user at the wing tip rotates the wing
       laterally about the vertical axis until the first wing section is parallel with the
       lateral axis, albeit still vertically oriented. The first wing section is then rotated
       about the lateral axis while fully extended so as to align the first wing section spar
       with the second wing section spar. Thereafter the first wing section is pushed
                                               -16-

       together with the second wing section until the first wing section spar joins with
       the second wing section spar forming a main wing spar and placing the wing into
       a flight configuration.
[0066] The juncture of the first wing section with the second wing section and joining of
       the first wing spar with the second wing spar is a critical step in a wing-fold
       operation. The wing supports the fuselage during flight and the forces generated
       and experienced by the wing are conveyed to the fuselage by the spar. Thus, the
       joining of the first wing section spar with that of the second wing section spar
       must be exact, consistent and reliable.
[0067] Figures 6A and 6B show an expanded view of the juncture between the first wing
       section and the second wing section and specifically the joining of the first wing
       spar and the second wing spar. According to one embodiment of the present
       invention, and as shown in Figure 6A, the first wing section spar 180 incudes a
       joining section 610 that, when in the flight configuration, overlaps 620 with the
       second wing section spar 190. The distal end of the joining section 610 includes a
       first shear pin 615 that fits into a first shear pin receptacle or socket 625 located in
        a second wing section spar bulkhead 630 that is associated with the second wing
        section spar 190. Similarly, the second first wing section spar 180 possesses a
        first wing section bulkhead 640 having a second shear pin socket that accepts a
        second shear pin 655 associated with the second wing spar 190
[0068] Turning to the top view of the wing shown in Figure 6B, the overlap between the
        second wing section spar 190 and the joining section 610 of the first wing section
        spar 180 can be readily seen. The bulkhead of the second wing section 630 is
        offset from the second wing section spar 190 so as to align with the first shear pin
        615 and the bulkhead of the first wing section 640 is offset from the first wing
        section spar 180 to align with the second shear pin 655.
                                              -17-

[00691 According to one embodiment of the present invention, the first and second shear
        pins are parallel with the lateral axis 110 and perpendicular with the longitudinal
        axis 120. Accordingly, as the first wing section moves into a flight configuration
        with the second wing section, the first and second shear pins engage the
        respective spar bulkheads and shear pin receptacles automatically. Using the
        configuration of the present invention it is not necessary to maintain the position
        of the first wing section with respect to the second wing section as separate shear
        pins are inserted. Rather, the mere placing of the first wing section into a flight
        configuration with the second wing section engages the shear pins forming a
        cohesive main wing spar.
[0070] As aerodynamic loads are transferred from the first wing section spar 180 to the
        second wing section spar 190 the offset configuration of the juncture will create a
        twisting moment. To address this twist or torque, a third shear pin is positioned
        near the trailing edge of the wing at the juncture between the first wing section
        and the second wing section.
[0071] Figure 7 is an upper right perspective view of an extended wing having a manual
        wing-fold mechanism of the present invention. This view of the juncture
        between the first wing section 210 and the second wing section 220 highlights the
        overlap of the first wing section spar 180 and the second wing section spar 190. It
         further shows the presence of a third shear pin 710 located on a secondary spar
         720. Just as with the first shear pin 615 and the second shear pin (not shown), the
        third shear pin 710 engages a third shear pin receptacle 740 associated with the
         second wing section 220. As aerodynamic loads are transferred from the first
        wing section 210 to the second wing section 220 via the spar juncture, the
         resulting twisting moment is addressed by the presence of the third shear pin 710.
 [0072] Figure 7 further illustrates a first wing section rib 725 that acts to terminate the
         first wing section 210 and a second wing section rib 730 that terminates the
         second wing section 220. Also associated with the second wing section 220 and
         the second wing section rib 730 is a pivot joint 760 that directly couples the
                                              -18-

       extension tube 230 between the first wing section 210 and the second wing
       section 220. The pivot joint 760 is a single point of contact between the
       extension tube 230 and the second wing section rib 740. The joint 760 enables
       the first wing section 210 to rotate about the lateral axis (longitudinal axis of the
       extension tube 230) and rotate about an axis parallel with the yaw axis of the
       aircraft. Alternatively, the pivot joint may be limited to enable the extension tube
       to pivot about the yaw axis while the first wing section 210 is operable to rotate
       about the longitudinal axis of the extension tube 230 at a point where it engages
       the extension tube.
[0073] Figure 8 shows a top view of the manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
       invention in which the first wing section is canted rearward at approximately 45
       degrees for illustrative purposes. The reader will note that while this depiction of
       the first wing section 210 with respect to the second wing section 220 is
       illustrative of their relationship and that of the wing-fold mechanism of the
       present invention, in operation of the invention, this particular orientation of the
       first wing section 210 with respect to the second wing section 220 is not
       contemplated.
[0074] Figure 8 presents a context of the placement and configuration of the extension
       tube 230 and the extension tube housing 830. As previously described, the
        extension tube 230 is coupled to the second wing section 220, or more precisely
       the second wing section rib 730 at the pivot joint 760. The extension tube
       thereafter traverses the first wing section rib 725 and through a support structure
        810 and thereafter terminates in the extension tube housing 830. The support
        structure 810 includes, in this embodiment of the present invention, a floating
       bearing 820. The floating bearing supports the extension tube 230 as it translates
        from the housing 830 and provides some lateral and vertical flexibility with
        respect to the alignment of the first wing section 210 and thus the shear pins as
                                             -19-

       they become proximate to the shear pin receptacles associated with the second
       wing section 220.
[0075] Turning attention to Figure 9, one can find a detailed cut away view of the first
       wing section but from a rear upward perspective vantage point. This view of the
       first wing section 210 provides a clear view of the three-shear pin 615, 655, 710
       configuration that conveys aerodynamic loads from the first wing section spar 180
       to the second wing section spar 190. Slightly aft from the first wing section spar
       180 is the extension tube 230 and the extension tube housing 830. The extension
       tube housing is secured to the first wing section 210 and is operable to permit the
       extension tube 230 to traverse the housing 210 while providing structural support.
       When the first wing section 210 is coupled to the second wing section 220 and in
       a flight configuration, the extension tube 230 traverses the extension tube housing
       830 and resides within the first wing section 210. As the first wing section 210 is
       extended along the lateral axis 110 of the aircraft and apart from the second wing
       section 220, the extension tube 230 traverses the housing 830 until it reaches a
       stop or limit within the housing 830. The extension tube 230 travels through, and
       is encircled by a floating bearing 820 that is associated with a secondary support
       structure 810 before terminating at the pivot joint 760 adjacent to the second wing
       section 220.
[0076] According to one embodiment of the present invention, the extension tube
       housing 830 includes an alignment guide 850 that assists in the alignment of the
       first wing section 210, as is approaches juncture with the second wing section
       220. As one reasonable skill in the relevant art will appreciate, the alignment and
       interaction of the shear pins within the shear pin receptacles is a fundamental step
       in the manual wing-fold process. As the first wing section approaches the second
       wing section, the shear pins must fit securely within their respect shear pin
       receptacle. If the shear pins are misaligned it could potentially damage the
       receptacle or the pin itself, which could alter performance and load transfer
       characteristics.
                                            -20-

[0077] As the first wing section approaches the second wing section, the extension tube
       travels within the extension tube housing 830 until the wing sections meet. As
       this is a manual system, there is a large variability with respect to the accuracy
       and consistency of this joining process. Yet all three shear pins must be securely
       seated within their respective receptacle or socket to ensure that aerodynamic
       loads are properly transferred from the first wing section spar to the second wing
       section spar. Thus an alignment guide 850 acts to assist the user in properly
       seating the shear pins in their respect socket.
[0078] The alignment guide 850 interacts with the extension tube 230 as the wing
       sections approach each other to refine their orientation and to bring the shear pins
       into contact with their respective sockets. According to one embodiment of the
       present invention, the alignment guide is comprised of a plurality of narrowing
       channels that accept one or more pins that extend from the extension tube. As the
       extension tube 230 travels through the extension tube housing 830 and through
       the alignment guide 850 the pins are funneled into the narrowing channel. The
       pins are positioned on the extension tube and the channels configured on the
       alignment guide so as to match the alignment of the shear pins with the shear pin
       sockets. By doing so the first wing section can be manually brought close to the
       second wing section with some degree of variance. As the distance between the
       first wing section and the second wing section close, the pins on the extension
       tube fall within the channels of the alignment guide. As the distance continues to
       be decreased, the pins and the alignment guide interact to refine the orientation of
       the first wing section with respect to the second wing section so as to align the
       shear pins with the respective shear pin sockets.
[0079] In another embodiment of the present invention, the alignment guide assists in
       securing the first wing section for storage and transport. Recall that after the first
       wing section is rotated along the lateral axis and then folded rearward about the
       vertical axis, the first wing section is still extended along the extension tube.
                                             -21-

       Once folded rearward, the wing is then pushed forward to its resting / stowed
       position. Again the extension tube is received within the first wing section and
       by the extension tube housing. As the first wing section is positioned into its
       stowed position, the alignment guide again interacts with pins positioned on the
       extension tube. This time the pins are not serving to place the first wing section
       into a precise degree of alignment but rather providing a means by which to
       support and secure the wing as it rests alongside the fuselage.
[00801 As previously mentioned, the first wing section is joined to the second wing
       section, according to one embodiment, via three shear pins. One skilled in the
       relevant art will appreciate other configurations and numbers of pins can be used
       to couple the first wing section to the second wing section without departing from
       the scope of the present invention. According to one embodiment of the present
       invention, the joining of the first wing section to the second wing section occurs
       concurrently with the insertion of the load bearing shear pins into their sockets.
       To accomplish this, the shear pins are parallel with the lateral axis of the aircraft
       rather than being parallel with the longitudinal axis of the aircraft as with most
       designs of the prior art. Moreover most designs of the prior art include a two-step
       process. That process normally includes bringing the wing spars into alignment
       forming a juncture and thereafter inserting shear pins to affect transference of
       toads. In the present invention these two steps are combined.
[0081] As the first wing section is placed into close proximity with the second wing
       section to achieve a flight configuration, each of the shear pins must align with
       and be inserted into their respective socket. As described above, the alignment
       guide associated with the extension tube directs the two wing sections together
       with some degree or precision. As one of reasonable skill in the relevant art will
       appreciate, the fit between the shear pin and socket must be sufficiently tight so to
       prevent needless play and any resulting damage to the fitting that may occur after
       repeated load cycles. A refining process of aligning the spars and then inserting
       the appropriate pins enables the alignment of the spars to be refined and
       confirmed prior to the insertion of the pins. The present invention addresses that
                                            -22-

       issue with not only the extension tube guide but also a multi tiered shear pin
       design.
[0082] According to one embodiment of the present invention, each shear pin possesses a
       bullet like shape having two or more horizontal surfaces by which to transfer
       loads from the spar of the first wing section to the spar of the second wing
       section. Figure 10 is a side, cut-away view of a shear pin within its shear pin
       socket according to one embodiment of the present invention. The shear pin 1010
       shown in Figure 10 includes a double taper design having a rounded, bullet nose
       1030 at the distal end of the shear pin 1010 leading to a first load bearing section
       1040 and thereafter to a second load bearing section 1050 wherein the second
       load bearing section 1050 possesses a larger diameter than the first load bearing
       section 1040. The socket 1020 is corresponding shaped to receive the shear pin
       1010 such that upon complete insertion the shear pin skirt 1060 associated with
       the proximal end of the shear pin 1010 seats against the socket plate 1070
       defining the outer most edge of the shear pin socket 1020.
10083] As one of reasonable skill in the relevant art will appreciate, the shape of the shear
       pin shown in Figure 10 and its associated socket make for a self-aligning system.
       As the extension alignment guide refines the alignment and mating of the first
       wing section to the second wing section, the shear pins need only be positioned so
       that the distal end 1030 of the shear pin 1010 be within the void or socket at the
       socket plate 1070. As the pin 1010 moves within the socket 1020 the tapered
       shape of the pin and socket guides pin into its proper position. While the pin
       depicted in Figure 8 possesses two load-bearing surfaces other designs may have
       more or fewer such surfaces. Indeed the entire interaction between the socket and
       the pin is capable of carrying a portion of the shear load between the first wing
       section spar and the second wing section spar. However, as one skilled in the art
       will appreciate, a fully tapered design would produce a resultant lateral force
       driving the shear pin out of the socket. Thus the present design includes a void
                                            -23-

       1080 between the tapered walls of the socket / pin when the shear pin 1010 is in
       its proper position so as to minimize any force that may compromise the integrity
       of the juncture between the first wing section and the second wing section. Lastly,
       the shear pin includes a lateral void or hole 1090 traversing the width of the pin
       associated within the tapered section. As will be apparent with reference to Figure
        11 below, the void is receptive of a locking pin that secures the shear pin 1010
       within the socket 1020 upon full insertion.
[0084] Figure 11 is a front lower perspective drawing of the outboard surface of the
       inboard wing section and locking mechanism according to one embodiment of the
       present invention. The outboard surface or rib 730 of the second wing section
       220 includes a locking mechanism 1110 that secures the second and third shear
       pins 655, 710 within their respective sockets 660, 740. The locking mechanism
       includes a rotatable handle 1120 coupled to two rods 1130 that each include a pin
       (not shown) that is positioned adjacent and traverse to the second and third
       sockets 660, 740 respectively. As the handle 1120 is rotated clockwise the rods
       1130 extend the pins into and across the socket securing the pins 655, 710 within
       the socket.
[0085] As the first wing section 210 is joined with the second wing section 220 the shear
       pins 615, 655, 710 are aligned with and inserted into their respective sockets 625,
       660, 740. In this embodiment of the present invention, the second shear pin 655
       and the third shear pin 710 include a void or hole 1090 configured to accept the
       locking pin associated with the locking mechanism 1110. Once the shear pins
       615, 655, 710 are firmly seated within their socket 625, 660, 740, the locking
       mechanism handle 1120 is rotated clockwise to extend the pins into the locking
       pin void 1090. As one of reasonable skill in the relevant art will recognize,
       aerodynamic forces experienced by the first wing section and transferred to the
       second wing section are substantially aligned with the vertical or yaw axis. Thus
       the vast majority of the force is a shear force conveyed by the shear pin. The first
       wing section experiences little force along the lateral or pitch axis and thus the
       locking pin needs only securely maintain the shear pin within the shear pin socket.
                                            -24-

        One of reasonable skill in the relevant art will also recognize that other locking
       pin orientations and insertion mechanisms are possible without departing from the
        scope and intent of the present invention.
[0086] Another feature of the present invention is the ability of the first wing section to
       be easily guided into the proper position so that the first wing section can be
       joined with the second wing section. As described above, the shape of the shear
       pins enables the two wing sections to come together slightly misaligned. As the
       shear pins enter their sockets the wings obtain their final alignment. To further
       assist in aligning the shear pins with the shear pin receptacles or sockets, a
       movable bearing or guide assembly 820 circumscribes the extension tube 230.
       Figure 12 is a side perspective view of an interior rib of the first wing second 210
       having a movable bearing according to one embodiment of the present invention.
       The bearing assembly 820 is positioned within a supporting rib 810 so as to
       accept the extension tube 230 coupling the first wing section 210 to the second
       wing section 220.
[0087] As can be seen in Figure 13, the bearing assembly 820 includes an outer housing
       1310 and an inner housing 1330. The interior diameter 1340 of the inner housing
       1330 is large enough to accept the outer diameter of the extension tube 230.
       Interposed between the inner housing 1330 and the outer housing 1310 is a
       deformable spring 1320 that enable the inner housing 1330 and thus the extension
       tube 230, to be displace laterally with respect to the outer housing 1310. As the
       first wing section 210 is supported by the extension tube 230 in its extended state,
       the movable nature of the inner bearing 1330 enables the user to adjust and fine
       tune the position of the first wing section relative to the second wing section as
       the two are joined together.
[0088] A further innovation of the present invention includes an alignment guide 850 that
       also assists in guiding the first wing section into proper alignment with the second
                                            -25-

       wing section to achieve a flight configuration. Figure 14 is a perspective view of
       an alignment guide for assisting in the joining of a first wing section to a second
       wing section according to one embodiment of the present invention. The
       alignment guide 850 includes a plurality of slots 1420 that are receptive of a pin
       1410 affixed to the extension tube 230. As the first wing section and
       accompanying extension tube is collapsed from its fully extended state to its
       joining state, the extension tube traverses the extension tube housing 830 and
       alignment guide. As the first wing section approaches the second wing section,
       one or more pins 230 affixed to the extension tube 230 are captured by a
       narrowing slot 1420 within the alignment guided 850. As the pin 1410 engages
       and travels down the slot, the first wing section, which is affixed to the extension
       tube guide 830, is directed to a predefined position. This position as defined by
       the narrowest portion of the alignment guide 850 places the distal end of the shear
       pins within the shear pin socket. The aforementioned alignment guide 850
       combined with the movable bearing 820 and the tapered shear pins 615, 655, 710
       enable a user to manually place the first wing section into a flight configuration
       both efficiently and consistently.
[0089] The wing-fold mechanism of the present invention enables a user to manually
       disconnect, fold and stow the outboard (first) wing section apart from the inboard
       (second) wing section for storage and/or transportation. The mechanism
       described herein not only provides a means by which to efficiently fold and store
       the first wing section but also to reliably reconfigure the aircraft into its flight
        configuration.
[0090] Figure 15 is a flowchart of one methodology for folding the first wing section of
        an aircraft to its stowed position using one embodiment of the wing-fold
       mechanism of the present invention. One of reasonable skill in the relevant art
       will appreciate that these steps are not all inclusive and that intermediate or a
        different approach using the wing-fold mechanism of the present invention may
        achieve similar or even identical results. Thus steps illustrated below may, in
        other embodiments, be combined or omitted and other steps in yet other
                                             -26-

       embodiments may be included, all without departing from the scope and intent of
       the present invention.
[0091] The process by which a wing is folded and placed into a stowed or transportable
       condition begins 1505 with rotating the locking handle 1510 so as to release the
       shear pins from their respective sockets. Recall that in one embodiment, two
       shear pins are secured within their sockets by a pin that is attached to a rotatable
       rod and handle assembly. As the handle is rotated the locking pins are withdrawn
       enabling the shear pins to be withdrawn from their sockets.
[00921 With the pins placed into a retractable state, the first wing section is extended
       along the lateral axis 1520 from the second wing section. In most cases a user
       will support the first wing section at the wing tip and pull the first wing section
        away from the fuselage. As the shear pins slide out of their sockets the juncture
       between the first wing section and the second wing section begins to separate.
       While the user supports the weight of the wing at the wing tip, the remainder of
       the load is transferred to the extension tube as the shear pins are pulled from their
        sockets.
[0093] As the first wing section is extended away from the second wing section along the
        aircrafts lateral or pitch axis, the user supports the first wing section at the wingtip
        and the extension tube carries the remaining load at the pivot point adjacent to the
        second wing section. Once extended, the user rotates 1540 the first wing section
        about lateral / pitch axis so that the leading edge of the first wing section rotates
        upward. In other embodiments, the leading edge of the wing may be rotated
        downward. The first wing section is rotated approximately 90 degrees making
        the first wing section, although still aligned with the lateral axis of the aircraft,
        perpendicular to the second wing section.
                                               -27-

[0094] Once rotated, the user pivots 1550 the first wing section rearward about the
       vertical or yaw axis bringing the wingtip of the first wing section toward the tail
       of the aircraft. At this point the first wing section is aligned with the longitudinal
       / roll axis of the aircraft.
[0095] Responsive to the first wing section being aligned with the longitudinal axis of the
        aircraft, the first wing section is translated 1570 forward along the aircraft's
       longitudinal axis. As the wing section moves toward the nose of the aircraft the
       first wing section receives the extension tube within the confines of the wing. As
       the wing translates forward the guide pins associated with the extension tube are
       accepted within a narrowing slot of the alignment guide. In such a manner the
       interaction between the alignment guide and the guide pins assist in securing the
       first wing section fr-om rotating about the extension tube (longitudinal axis in this
       orientation) and/or pivot joint during transportation and storage.
[0096] With the wing fully translated forward and aligned with the longitudinal axis of
       the aircraft, the wingtip of the folded first wing section is secured 1580 to the tail
       or empennage of the aircraft completing the stowing process 1595.
[0097] The reconfiguration of the aircraft wing reverses the steps outlined above and are
       illustrated in the flowchart depicted in Figure 16. The reconfiguration process
       begins 1605 with unlatching or releasing 1610 the folded wingtip from the tail or
       empennage of the aircraft. Once free of the tail, the first wing section is supported
       by a user at the wingtip and the extension tube near the juncture. Supporting the
       wingtip, the user translates 1620 the first wing section rearward, away from the
       nose of the aircraft and along the longitudinal axis of the aircraft.
[0098] Once the extension tube is fully extended the guide pins associated with the
       extension tube no longer interact with the slots of the alignment guide. Thus in
       this position the wing cannot only pivot forward about the pivot joint, but also
       rotate about the extension tube. However, to prevent interaction between the
       wing and the fuselage the wing is maintained in its vertical orientation until the
       first and second wing sections are aligned along the lateral axis.
                                               -28-

[00991 Accordingly, the next step in the reconfiguration process includes pivoting 1640
       the first wing section about the vertical / yaw axis of the aircraft at the pivot point.
       The first wing section is pivoted forward so as to be aligned with the lateral / pitch
       axis of the aircraft. In this position the wing is then rotated 1650 about the lateral
       axis bringing the leading edge down so as to be aligned with the leading edge of
       the second wing section.
[00100]         Holding the wingtip, the first wing section is then pushed (translated) 1670
       toward the second wing section along the lateral axis. As the extension tube is
       once again received within the first wing section the alignment pin associated
       with the extension tube interacts with the alignment guide. The narrowing slots in
       the alignment guide assist in placing the first wing section into proper alignment
       with the second wing so that the shear pins of the first wing section can be
       engaged by the shear pin sockets of the second wing section.
[00101]         As the first wing is guided into position by the narrowing slots of the
       alignment guide, minor adjustments in the position of the first wing section are
       possible by virtue of a movable bearing that enables the movement of the
       extension tube in the plane defined by the yaw and roll axis of the aircraft. This
       flexibility, along with the alignment guide, enables the placement of enables the
       tips of shear pins within their respective shear pin sockets. As the shear pins
       possess, in one embodiment of the present invention, a multi-tapered
       configuration, they too assist in guiding the first wing section into proper
       alignment with respect to the second wing section.
[001021         Once the shear pins of the first wing section are seated within the shear pin
       sockets associated with the second wing section, the shear pin locking pins can be
       inserted into the shear pins by engaging 1680 the shear pin locking mechanism.
       Having the locking pins inserted into the shear pins secures the first wing section
       to the second wing section in a flight configuration 1695.
                                             -29-

 [001031         The manual wing-fold mechanism of the present invention provides a
         means by which to reconfigure the wing of an aircraft from a flight configuration
         to one that can be easily stowed and transported. The folding mechanism is
         comprised primarily of an extension tube that enables the outboard portion of the
         wing to be extended away from the inboard section, rotated about the lateral axis
         of the aircraft and thereafter pivoted rearward so that the wing is aligned with the
         longitudinal axis of the aircraft along side the fuselage.
[00104]          The wing-fold mechanism of the present invention is independent of the
         structural components of the wing used to convey aerodynamic loads during
         flight. That is to say, the wing spar(s) is (are) not involved with supporting the
         outboard wing section as it is extended, rotated, and folded back into its stowed
        position. The manual wing-fold mechanism of the present invention also
        provides for the user to bring the first wing section into a near alignment position
        while the wing-fold mechanism thereafter assists to refine the alignment into is
         final configuration. The alignment and shape of the shear pins is one feature of
        the present invention that enables this sort of final refining process. By coupling
        the wing spar of the first wing section with the spar of the second wing section
        using shear pins that are also aligned with the lateral axis of the aircraft (aligned
        with the spars), the juncture of the first wing section to the second wing section
        mandates proper seating of the shear pins within their sockets. A secondary step
        of inserting shear pins within the joining spars is not necessary thus simplifying
        the process and making the juncture more reliable.
[00105]          The manual wing-fold mechanism of the present invention is simple,
        efficient, reliable and durable. It enables a single individual to release and stow
        each wing of the aircraft to a storable / transportable configuration as well as
        reconfigure the aircraft into its flight configuration.
[001061          One embodiment of the manual wing-fold mechanism of the present
        invention includes:
                                              -30-

            -   a wing having a first wing section associated with a wing tip and a first
               wing section spar, and a second wing section associated with a wing root
               and a second wing section spar, and wherein the wing in flight
               configuration is associated with a lateral axis spanning from the wingtip to
               the root;
           -   a plurality of shear pins operable to couple the first wing section spar to
               the second wing section spar wherein the plurality of shear pins are
               substantially parallel to the lateral axis; and
           -   a folding apparatus coupling the first wing section and the second wing
               section wherein the folding apparatus is operable to extend the first wing
               section from the second wing section along the lateral axis, rotate the first
               wing about the lateral axis and pivot the first wing section about a vertical
               axis perpendicular to the lateral axis placing the first wing section spar
               substantially perpendicular to the second wing section spar.
[001071        The aforementioned wing-fold mechanism of the present can further
       include features such as
           " wherein transfer of aerodynamic loads is independent of the
               folding apparatus;
           " wherein when the wing is in flight configuration a portion of the first wing
               spar overlaps with a portion of the second wing section spar;
           " wherein the plurality of shear pins are operable to transfer in-flight
               aerodynamic loads from the first wing section to the second wing section;
           +  wherein each of the plurality of shear pins are received by one of a
               corresponding plurality of shear pin sockets;
                                            -31-

           -  wherein each of the plurality of shear pins are associated with the first
              wing section;
           .  wherein each of the plurality of shear pins are associated with the fist wing
              section spar.
           -  wherein each of the plurality of shear pin sockets is associated with the
              second wing section;
           *  wherein each of the plurality of shear pin sockets is associated with the
              second wing section spar;
           -  wherein one or more of the plurality of shear pins are secured in the
              corresponding plurality of shear pin sockets by a transverse lock pin;
           e  wherein each of the plurality of shear pins includes a first diameter and a
              second diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed among the first
              diameter and the second diameter; and
           -  wherein each of the plurality of shear pins includes a plurality of cross
              sectional diameters.
[00108]       In another embodiment of the present invention, a foldable aircraft wing
       includes
           *  a first wing section having a first wing spar;
           " a second wing section having a second wing spar wherein in a flight
              configuration the first wing spar is coupled to the second wing spar
              forming a wing spar juncture operable to transfer aerodynamic loads
              between the first wing section and the second wing section; and
           -  an extension device pivotally coupling the first wing section to the second
              wing section, wherein responsive to decoupling the first wing spar from
              the second wing spar the extension device is operable to extend the first
                                          -32-

           wing section apart from the second wing section along a lateral axis
           substantially parallel with the first wing spar, rotate the first wing section
           about the lateral axis, and pivot at a pivot point associated with the second
          wing section, to a transportable configuration.
[001091   Additional novel features of the aforementioned foldable wing can include
        " wherein the wing spar juncture includes a plurality of shear pins and a
          plurality of shear pin sockets;
        - wherein the plurality of shear pins are substantially aligned with the lateral
           axis;
        - wherein each of the plurality of shear pins includes a first pin diameter and
           a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed among the
          first pin diameter and the second pin diameter;
        - wherein each of the plurality of shear pin sockets includes a first socket
          diameter and a second socket diameter corresponding to the first pin
          diameter and the second pin diameter respectively;
        - wherein in the flight configuration the plurality of shear pins are secured
          within the plurality of shear pin sockets by a transverse lock pin;
        - wherein in the flight configuration a portion of the first wing spar overlaps
          a portion of the second wing section spar;
        " wherein the extension device is independent of the first wing spar and the
          second wing spar;
        - wherein the extension device is independent of aerodynamic loads
          transferred between the first wing spar and the second wing spar;
                                        -33-

            -   wherein the extension device a guiding channel operable to align the
                plurality of shear pins with the plurality of shear pin sockets as the first
                wing section transitions from the transportable configuration to the flight
                configuration; and
            -   wherein the first wing section includes a floating bearing circumscribing
                the extension device and wherein the floating bearing is operable to
                displace the first wing section perpendicularly to the lateral axis and about
                the extension device as the plurality of shear pins engage the plurality of
                shear pin sockets.
[00110]         A system for modifying a wing from a transportable configuration to a
        flight configuration, according to the present invention, includes
            " a first wing spar associated with a first wing section and wherein the first
                wing section in the transportable configuration is substantially orthogonal
                to a second wing section;
            -   a second wing spar associated with the second wing section wherein the
                first wing spar is attachable to the second wing spar at a wing spar
                juncture;
             * a folding device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing
                spar, coupling the first wing section to the second wing section and
                operable to position the first wing section from the transportable
                configuration to the flight configuration so as to associate the first wing
                spar with the second wing spar at the wing spar juncture; and
             -  a plurality of shear pins coupling the first wing spar to the second wing
                spar wherein each of the plurality of shear pins includes a first pin
                diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed
                 among the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter.
[001111         Additional features of the aforementioned system can include
                                             -34--

            -   The system for modifying a wing according to claim 24, wherein the
                folding device is independent of aerodynamic loads transferred between
                the first wing spar and the second wing spar.
            -   The system for modifying a wing according to claim 24, wherein the first
                wing section includes a floating bearing operable to displace the first wing
                section perpendicularly to a lateral axis parallel to the first wing spar as
                the plurality of shear pins couple the first wing spar to the second wing
                spar.
            -   The system for modifying a wing according to claim 24, wherein the
                plurality of shear pins are aligned with a lateral axis parallel to the first
                wing spar.
            -   The system for modifying a wing according to claim 24, wherein in the
                flight configuration a portion of the first wing spar overlaps a portion of
                the second wing section spar.
[00112]         Another embodiment of the present invention includes a methodology for
        manually folding a wing of an aircraft from a flight configuration to a stowed or
        transportable configuration. The methodology includes the steps
            e   rotate a locking latch to release one or more shear pins from corresponding
                shear pin sockets;
            e   while supporting a first wing section at a first wing section wingtip, extend
                the first wing section along a lateral axis of the aircraft along an extension
                tube;
                                             -35-

           -   responsive to the first wing section being fully extended, rotate a leading
               edge of the first wing section upward and about the lateral axis of the
               aircraft until a line from the leading edge to a trailing edge is
               perpendicular to the lateral axis;
           +   pivot the first wing section reward about a vertical axis of the aircraft at a
               pivot point; and
           " responsive to the first wing section being aligned with a longitudinal axis
               of the aircraft, translate the first wing section forward along the
               longitudinal axis to a stowed configuration.
[00113]        A similar embodiment of the present invention includes a methodology for
        manually configure a wing of an aircraft from a stowed or transportable
        configuration to a flight configuration. The methodology includes the steps
           .   while supporting a first wing section of the wing of the aircraft at the
               wingtip, release the wingtip from the horizontal tail;
           .   translate the first wing section rearward along the longitudinal axis of the
               aircraft until an extension tube is fully extended;
           " pivot the first wing section about a vertical axis of the aircraft at a pivot
               point until the first wing section is aligned with a lateral axis of the
               aircraft;
           e   rotate a leading edge of the first wing section downward about the lateral
               axis of the aircraft;
           -   translate the first wing section toward a second wing section associated
               with a fuselage of the aircraft along the lateral axis of the aircraft until one
               or more shear pins engage their respective shear pin sockets;
                                              -36-

            -  responsive to the one or more shear pins being house within their
               respective shear pin sockets, engage a shear pin locking mechanism
               securing the first wing section to the second wing section in a flight
               configuration.
[00114]        While the invention has been particularly shown and described with
       reference to embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that
       various other changes in the form and details may be made without departing
       from the spirit and scope of the invention. It should also be understood that this
       description has been made by way of example, and that the invention is defined
       by the scope of the claims that follow this description.
[00115]        As will be further understood by those familiar with the art, the invention
       may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or
       essential characteristics thereof. Likewise, the particular naming and division of
       the modules, managers, functions, systems, engines, layers, features, attributes,
       methodologies, and other aspects are not mandatory or significant, and the
       mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different
       names, divisions, and/or formats. Furthermore, as will be apparent to one of
       ordinary skill in the relevant art, the modules, managers, functions, systems,
       engines, layers, features, attributes, methodologies, and other aspects of the
       invention can be implemented in different forms without departing from the scope
       of the invention. Particularly, it is recognized that the teachings of the foregoing
       disclosure will suggest other modifications to those persons skilled in the relevant
       art. Such modifications may involve other features that are already known per se
       and which may be used instead of or in addition to features already described
       herein. Although claims have been formulated in this application to particular
       combinations of features, it should be understood that the scope of the disclosure
       herein also includes any novel features or any novel combination of features
                                             -37-

disclosed either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization or modification
thereof which would be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art, whether or
not such relates to the same invention as presently claimed in any claim and
whether or not it mitigates any or all of the same technical problems as confronted
by the present invention. The Applicant hereby reserves the right to formulate
new claims to such features and/or combinations of such features during the
prosecution of the present application or of any further application derived
therefrom.
                                    -38-

CLAIMS
  1.   A foldable aircraft wing, comprising:
        a first wing section having a first wing spar;
        a second wing section having a second wing spar wherein in a flight configuration
       the first wing spar is coupled to the second wing spar forming a wing spar
       juncture to transfer aerodynamic loads between the first wing section and the
       second wing section;
       an extension device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing spar,
       pivotally coupling the first wing section to the second wing section, wherein
       responsive to decoupling the first wing spar from the second wing spar the
       extension device extends the first wing section apart from the second wing section
       along a lateral axis substantially parallel with the first wing spar, rotates the first
       wing section about the lateral axis, and pivots the first wing section at a pivot
       point associated with the second wing section, to a transportable configuration;
       and
       two or more shear pins, fixed to the first wing spar, coupling the first wing spar to
       the second wing spar wherein each of the two or more shear pins includes a first
       pin diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed
       among the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter.
  2.   The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein the wing spar juncture includes the
       two or more shear pins and two or more shear pin sockets.
  3.   The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1 or 2, wherein the two or more shear pins are
       substantially aligned with the lateral axis and fixed to the first wing section.
  4.   The foldable aircraft wing of claim 2, wherein that section of the shear pin having
       a first pin diameter comprises a first load bearing section and that section of the
       shear pin having a second pin diameter comprises a second load bearing section.
  5.   The foldable aircraft wing of claim 4, wherein each of the two or more shear pin
       sockets includes a first socket diameter and a second socket diameter
       corresponding to the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter respectively.

6.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 2, wherein in the flight each of the two or
    more shear pins are secured within each of the two or more shear pin sockets by a
    transverse lock pin.
7.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein in the flight configuration a portion
    of the first wing spar overlaps a portion of the second wing section spar.
8.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein the extension device is independent
    of the first wing spar and the second wing spar.
9.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein the extension device is independent
    of aerodynamic loads transferred between the first wing spar and the second wing
    spar.
10. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein the extension device includes a
    guiding channel to align the two or more shear pins with the two or more shear
    pin sockets as the first wing section transitions from the transportable
    configuration to the flight configuration.
11. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 1, wherein the first wing section includes a
    floating bearing circumscribing the extension device and wherein the floating
    bearing displaces the first wing section perpendicularly to the lateral axis and
    about the extension device as the plurality of shear pins engage the plurality of
    shear pin sockets.
12. A system for modifying a wing from a transportable configuration to a flight
    configuration, the system comprising:
    a first wing spar associated with a first wing section and wherein the first wing
    section in the transportable configuration is substantially orthogonal to a second
    wing section;

    a second wing spar associated with the second wing section wherein the first wing
    spar is attachable to the second wing spar at a wing spar juncture and wherein the
    first wing spar overlaps with the second wing spar;
    a folding device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing spar,
    coupling the first wing section to the second wing section and configured to
    position the first wing section from the transportable configuration to the flight
    configuration so as to associate the first wing spar with the second wing spar at
    the wing spar juncture; and
    two or more shear pins, fixed to the first wing spar, coupling the first wing spar to
    the second wing spar wherein each of the two or more shear pins includes a first
    pin diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed
    among the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter.
13. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 12, wherein the folding
    device is independent of aerodynamic loads transferred between the first wing
    spar and the second wing spar.
14. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 12, wherein the first wing
    section includes a floating bearing operable to displace the first wing section
    perpendicularly to a lateral axis parallel to the first wing spar as the two or more
    shear pins couple the first wing spar to the second wing spar.
15. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 12, wherein the two or more
    shear pins are aligned with a lateral axis parallel to the first wing spar and wherein
    at least two of the plurality of shear pins are separated along the lateral axis.
16. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 12, wherein in the flight
    configuration a portion of the first wing spar overlaps a portion of the second
    wing section spar.
17. A wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft, comprising:
    a wing having-a first wing section associated with a wing tip and a first wing
    section spar, and a second wing section associated with a wing root and a second

    wing section spar, and wherein the wing in flight configuration is associated with
    a lateral axis spanning from the wingtip to the root;
    a plurality of shear pins operable-to couple the first wing section spar to the
    second wing section spar wherein the plurality of shear pins are substantially
    parallel to the lateral axis; and
    a folding apparatus-coupling the first wing section and the second wing section
    wherein the folding apparatus is operable to extend the first wing section from the
    second wing section along the lateral axis, rotate the first wing about the lateral
    axis and pivot the first wing section about a vertical axis perpendicular to the
    lateral axis placing the first wing section spar substantially perpendicular to the
    second wing section spar.
18. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein transfer of
    aerodynamic loads is independent of the folding apparatus.
19. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein when the
    wing is in flight configuration a portion of the first wing spar overlaps with a
    portion of the second wing section spar.
20. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein the plurality
    of shear pins are operable to transfer in-flight aerodynamic loads from the first
    wing section to the second wing section.
21. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pins are received by one of a corresponding plurality of shear
    pin sockets.
22. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 21, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pins are associated with the first wing section.
23. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 21, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pins are associated with the fist wing section spar.

24. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 21, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pin sockets is associated with the second wing section.
25. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 21, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pin sockets is associated with the second wing section spar.
26. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 21, wherein one or more
    of the plurality of shear pins are secured in the corresponding plurality of shear
    pin sockets by a transverse lock pin.
27. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pins includes a first diameter and a second diameter and wherein
    a shear load is distributed among the first diameter and the second diameter.
28. The wing-fold mechanism for use in an aircraft of claim 17, wherein each of the
    plurality of shear pins includes a plurality of cross-sectional diameters.
29. A foldable aircraft wing, comprising:
    a first wing section having a first wing spar;
    a second wing section havinga second wing spar wherein in a flight configuration
    the first wing spar is coupled to the second wing spar forming a wing spar
    juncture operable to transfer aerodynamic loads between the first wing section and
    the second wing section; and
    an extension device-pivotally coupling the first wing section to the second wing
    section, wherein responsive to decoupling the first wing spar from the second
    wing spar the extension device is operable to extend the first wing section apart
    from the second wing section along a lateral axis substantially parallel with the
    first wing spar, rotates the first wing section about the lateral axis, and pivot at a
    pivot point associated with the second wing section, to a transportable
     configuration.
30.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein the wing spar juncture includes a
    plurality of shear pins and a plurality of shear pin sockets.

31. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 30, wherein the plurality of shear pins are
    substantially aligned with the lateral axis.
32. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 30, wherein each of the plurality of shear pins
    includes a first pin diameter and a second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is
    distributed among the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter.
33. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 32, wherein each of the plurality of shear pin
    sockets includes a first socket diameter and a second socket diameter
    corresponding to the first pin diameter and the second pin diameter respectively.
34. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 30, wherein in the flight configuration the
    plurality of shear pins are secured within the plurality of shear pin sockets by a
    transverse lock pin.
35. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein in the flight configuration a
    portion of the first wing spar overlaps a portion of the second wing section spar.
36. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein the extension device is
    independent of the first wing spar and the second wing spar.
37. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein the extension device is
    independent of aerodynamic loads transferred between the first wing spar and the
     second wing spar.
38. The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein the extension device a guiding
     channel operable to align the plurality of shear pins with the plurality of shear pin
     sockets as the first wing section transitions from the transportable configuration to
    the flight configuration.
39.  The foldable aircraft wing of claim 29, wherein the first wing section includes a
     floating bearing circumscribing the extension device and wherein the floating
     bearing is operable to displace the first wing section perpendicularly to the lateral

    axis and about the extension device as the plurality of shear pins engage the
    plurality of shear pin sockets.
40. A system for modifying a wing from a transportable configuration to a flight
    configuration, the system comprising:
    a first wing spar associated with a first wing section and wherein the first wing
    section in the transportable configuration is substantially orthogonal to a second
    wing section;
    a second wing spar associated with the second wing section wherein the first wing
    spar is attachable to the second wing spar at a wing spar juncture;
    a folding device, independent of the first wing spar and the second wing spar,
    coupling the first wing section to the second wing section and operable to position
    the first wing section from the transportable configuration to the flight
    configuration so as to associate the first wing spar with the second wing spar at
    the wing spar juncture; and
    a plurality of shear pins-coupling the first wing spar to the second wing spar
    wherein each of the plurality of shear pins includes a first pin diameter and a
    second pin diameter and wherein a shear load is distributed among the first pin
    diameter and the second pin diameter.
41. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 40, wherein the folding
    device is independent of aerodynamic loads transferred between the first wing
    spar and the second wing spar.
42. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 40, wherein the first wing
    section includes a floating bearing operable to displace the first wing section
    perpendicularly to a lateral axis parallel to the first wing spar as the plurality of
    shear pins couple the first wing spar to the second wing spar.
43. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 40, wherein the plurality of
    shear pins are aligned with a lateral axis parallel to the first wing spar.

44. The system for modifying a wing according to claim 40, wherein in the flight
    configuration a portion of the first wing spar overlaps a portion of the second
    wing section spar.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
