                                           ABSTRACT
          The invention provides a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising an antigen
binding domain comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-6, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular
T cell signaling domain. Nucleic acids, recombinant expression vectors, host cells,
populations of cells, antibodies, or antigen binding portions thereof, and pharmaceutical
compositions relating to the CARs are disclosed. Methods of detecting the presence of
cancer in a mammal and methods of treating or preventing cancer in a mammal are also
disclosed.
3713098vl

                             M971 CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTORS
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
  [0001]      This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
 61/717,960, filed on October 24, 2012 and Australian patent application 2013335180 filed
  September 18 2013, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
              INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED
                                       ELECTRONICALLY
  [0002]      Incorporated by reference in its entirety herein is a computer-readable
 nucleotide/amino acid sequence listing submitted concurrently herewith and identified as
 follows: one 31,786 Byte ASCII (Text) file named "714144_ST25.txt," dated August 30,
 2013.
STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[0002a]       This invention was made with Government support under project number ZOI ZIA
BC 010701 by the National Institutes of Health, National Cancer Institute. The Government has
certain rights in the invention.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
  [0003]      Cancer is a public health concern. Despite advances in treatments such as
 chemotherapy, the prognosis for many cancers, including hematological malignancies, may
 be poor. For example, it has been estimated that more than 45,000 deaths were expected
 from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and leukemia in the United States in 2000 (Greenlee et al.,
  CA CancerJ. Clin., 50:7-33 (2000)). Accordingly, there exists an unmet need for additional
 treatments for cancer, particularly hematological malignancies.
 3713098vl

                          BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]      An embodiment of the invention provides a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
comprising an antigen binding domain comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-6, a transmembrane
domain, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain
[0005]      Further embodiments of the invention provide related nucleic acids, recombinant
expression vectors, host cells, populations of cells, antibodies, or antigen binding portions
thereof, and pharmaceutical compositions relating to the CARs of the invention.
[0006]      Additional embodiments of the invention provide methods of detecting the
presence of cancer in a mammal and methods of treating or preventing cancer in a mammal.
          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)
                                                                      tCr labeled leukemia cell
[0007]      Figures IA-IG are graphs showing % lysis of target      5
lines REH (A), SEM (B), NALM6-GL (C), KOPN8 (D), Daudi (E), Raji (F), and K562 (G)
by effector human T cells that were untransduced (mock,      0; circles) or transduced with the
following CARs: HA22-SH-second generation, version 1 (V), m971-second generation,
version 1 (A; open triangle), or CDI 9-specific CAR (m; squares) at various effector to target
ratio (E:T) ratios.
[0008]      Figures 2A-2C are graphs showing percent lysis of target leukemia cell lines Raji
(A), NALM6-GL (B), or K562 (C) by effector untransduced T cells (mock, e; circles), m971
second generation, version 1 CAR (A), or m971 -third generation CAR (V) at various E:T
ratios.
[0009]      Figures 3A-3C are graphs showing the amounts of interferon (IFN)-7 (pg/ml)
secreted by T cells that were untransduced (mock) or transduced with one of the following
CARs: anti-CD19, m971-second generation version 1 (SEQ ID NO: 23), m971-third
generation (SEQ ID NO: 24), HASH22-second generation version 1, HASH22-second
generation version 2, or HASH22-third generation upon co-culture with leukemia cell lines
NALM6-GL (CD22"') (A), Raji (CD22hi) (B), or K562 (CD22-negative) (C).
[0010]      Figures 3D-3F are graphs showing the amounts of interleukin (IL)-2 (pg/ml)
secreted by T cells that were untransduced (mock) or transduced with one of the following
CARs: anti-CD19, m971-second generation version 1 (SEQ ID NO: 23), m971 -third
3713098vl

generation (SEQ ID NO: 24), HASH22-second generation version 1, HASH22-second
generation version 2, or HASH22-third generation upon co-culture with leukemia cell lines
NALM6-GL (CD220") (A), Raji (CD22hi) (B), or K562 (CD22-negative) (C).
[0011]       Figures 3G-31 are graphs showing the amounts of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a
(pg/ml) secreted by T cells that were untransduced (mock) or transduced with one of the
following CARs: anti-CD19, m971-second generation version 1 (SEQ ID NO: 23), m971
third generation (SEQ ID NO: 24), HASH22-second generation version 1, HASH22-second
generation version 2, or HASH22-third generation upon co-culture with leukemia cell lines
NALM6-GL (CD22'w) (A), Raji (CD22hi) (B), or K562 (CD22-negative) (C).
[0012]       Figure 4A is a graph showing bioluminescent signals (photons/s/cm 2/sr) generated
by the reaction of luciferase (transfected into leukemia cells, which were injected into mice)
with luciferin that was injected into the mice, measured over a time period of 30 days. The
mice were treated with control T cells ("mock," untransduced, 0; circles) or T cells
transduced with HASH22 CAR-second generation, version 1 (m; squares) or m971-second
generation version 1 (triangles, SEQ ID NO: 23). Higher photons/s/cm 2 /sr values indicates
greater tumor burden.
[0013]       Figure 4B is a graph showing percent survival of mice treated with control T cells
("mock," untransduced, squares) or T cells transduced with HASH22 CAR-second generation
version 1 (circles) or 971 CAR-second generation version 1 (triangles, SEQ ID NO: 23) over
30 days. (Mock v. HA22, p=0.0019; mock v. m971, p=0.0019; m971 v. HA22, p=0.003).
[0014]       Figure 5 is a table showing bioluminescent images of mice having leukemia three,
five, and eight days after treatment with untransduced T cells (mock) or 15 x 106, 5 x 106, 1 x
 106, or 1 x 105 T cells that were transduced with a nucleotide sequence encoding a m971
second generation, version 2 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 22). A change in shading from grey to
white indicates increased tumor burden.
[00151       Figure 6 is a graph showing the total number of photons emitted in the
bioluminescence of the mice shown in Figure 5 over a period of 44 days. The total number
of photons was quantified and plotted, and the averages and standard deviations are shown
for each time point. Mice were treated with untransduced T cells (mock) (plus sign) or 15 x
 106 (diamond), 5 x 106 (flower), 1 x 106 (cross), or I x 105 (asterisk) T cells that were
3713098vl

transduced with a nucleotide sequence encoding a m971-second generation, version 2 CAR
(SEQ ID NO: 22).
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0016]      An embodiment of the invention provides a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)
comprising an antigen binding domain comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-6, a transmembrane
domain, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain.
[0017]      A CAR is an artificially constructed hybrid protein or polypeptide containing the
antigen binding domains of an antibody (e.g., single chain variable fragment (scFv)) linked to
T-cell signaling domains. Characteristics of CARs include their ability to redirect T-cell
specificity and reactivity toward a selected target in a non-MHC-restricted manner, exploiting
the antigen-binding properties of monoclonal antibodies. The non-MHC-restricted antigen
recognition gives T cells expressing CARs the ability to recognize antigen independent of
antigen processing, thus bypassing a major mechanism of tumor escape. Moreover, when
expressed in T-cells, CARs advantageously do not dimerize with endogenous T cell receptor
(TCR) alpha and beta chains.
[0018]      The phrases "have antigen specificity" and "elicit antigen-specific response" as
used herein means that the CAR can specifically bind to and immunologically recognize an
antigen, such that binding of the CAR to the antigen elicits an immune response.
[00191      The CARs of the invention have antigen specificity for CD22. CD22 is a lineage
restricted B cell antigen belonging to the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily. CD22 is
expressed in 60-70% of B cell lymphomas and leukemias (e.g., B-chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and Burkitt's lymphoma)
and is not present on the cell surface in early stages of B cell development or on stem cells.
Vaickus et al., Crit. Rev. Oncol./Hematol., 11:267-297 (1991); Bang et al., Clin. CancerRes.,
11: 1545-50 (2005).
[0020]      Without being bound to a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that by
eliciting an antigen-specific response against CD22, the inventive CARs provide for one or
more of any of the following: targeting and destroying CD22-expressing cancer cells,
reducing or eliminating cancer cells, facilitating infiltration of immune cells to tumor site(s),
and enhancing/extending anti-cancer responses. Because CD22 is not expressed in early
3713098vl

stages of B cell development or on stem cells, it is contemplated that the inventive CARs
advantageously substantially avoid targeting/destroying stem cells and/or B cells in early
development stages.
[0021]      An embodiment of the invention provides a CAR comprising an antigen binding
domain of the m971 antibody ("m971"). The antigen binding domain of m971 specifically
binds to CD22. In this regard, a preferred embodiment of the invention provides CARs
comprising an antigen-binding domain comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of,
a single chain variable fragment (scFv) of the antigen binding domain of m971. The m971
antibody provides improved binding to CD22 as compared to the HA22 immunotoxin and
also binds to a different CD22 epitope. Xiao et al., mAbs 1:3, 297-303 (2009).
[0022]      The antigen binding domain may comprise a light chain variable region and/or a
heavy chain variable region. In an embodiment of the invention, the heavy chain variable
region comprises a CDR1 region, a CDR2 region, and a CDR3 region. In this regard, the
antigen binding domain may comprise one or more of a heavy chain CDRI region
comprising SEQ ID NO: 1; a heavy chain CDR2 region comprising SEQ ID NO: 2; and a
heavy chain CDR3 region comprising SEQ ID NO: 3. Preferably, the heavy chain comprises
all of SEQ ID NOs: 1-3.
[0023]      In an embodiment of the invention, the light chain variable region may comprise a
light chain CDRI region, a light chain CDR2 region, and a light chain CDR3 region. In this
regard, the antigen binding domain may comprise one or more of a light chain CDR1 region
comprising SEQ ID NO: 4; a light chain CDR2 region comprising SEQ ID NO: 5; and a light
chain CDR3 region comprising, SEQ ID NO: 6. Preferably, the light chain comprises all of
SEQ ID NOs: 4-6. In an especially preferred embodiment, the antigen binding domain
comprises all of SEQ ID NO: 1-6.
[0024]      The light chain variable region of the antigen binding domain may comprise,
consist of, or consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 7. The heavy chain variable region of the
antigen binding domain may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 8.
Accordingly, in an embodiment of the invention, the antigen binding domain comprises a
light chain variable region comprising SEQ ID NO: 7 and/or a heavy chain variable region
comprising SEQ ID NO: 8. Preferably, the antigen binding domain comprises both SEQ ID
NOs: 7 and 8.
3713098vl

[0025]       In an embodiment of the invention, the light chain variable region and the heavy
chain variable region may be joined by a linker. The linker may comprise any suitable amino
acid sequence. In an embodiment of the invention, the linker may comprise, consist, or
consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 11.
[0026]       In an embodiment, the antigen binding domain comprises a light chain variable
region and a heavy chain variable region. In this regard, an embodiment of the antigen
binding domain comprising both a light chain variable region and a heavy chain variable
region comprises, consists of, or consists essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 9.
[0027]       In an embodiment, the antigen binding domain comprises a leader sequence. The
leader sequence may be positioned at the amino terminus of the light chain variable region.
The leader sequence may comprise any suitable leader sequence. In an embodiment, the
leader sequence is a human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)
receptor sequence. In this regard, the antigen binding domain comprises a leader sequence
comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of SEQ ID NO: 10. In an embodiment of
the invention, while the leader sequence may facilitate expression of the CAR on the surface
of the cell, the presence of the leader sequence in an expressed CAR is not necessary in order
for the CAR to function. In an embodiment of the invention, upon expression of the CAR on
the cell surface, the leader sequence may be cleaved off of the CAR. Accordingly, in an
embodiment of the invention, the CAR lacks a leader sequence.
[0028]       In an embodiment of the invention, the CAR comprises a transmembrane domain.
In an embodiment of the invention, the transmembrane domain comprises i) CD8 and/or ii)
CD28. In a preferred embodiment, the CD8 and CD28 are human. The CD8 or CD28 may
comprise less than the whole CD8 or CD28, respectively. In this regard, the CAR comprises
a CD8 transmembrane domain comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of SEQ ID
NO: 12 or 18 and/or a CD28 transmembrane domain comprising, consisting of, or consisting
essentially of SEQ ID NO: 15.
[0029]       In an embodiment of the invention, the CAR comprises an intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprising any one or more of i) CD28, ii) CD137, and/or iii) CD3 zeta (().
In a preferred embodiment, the CD28, CD137, and CD3 zeta are human. CD28 is a T cell
marker important in T cell co-stimulation. CD137, also known as 4-1BB, transmits a potent
costimulatory signal to T cells, promoting differentiation and enhancing long-term survival of
3713098vl

T lymphocytes. CD3Q associates with TCRs to produce a signal and contains
immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs). The CD28, CD137, or CD3 zeta
may comprise less than the whole CD28, CD137, or CD3 zeta, respectively. In this regard,
the intracellular T cell signaling domain comprises a CD28 amino acid sequence comprising,
consisting of, or consisting essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 16 or 19, a CD137 amino acid
sequence comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 13 or 20, and/or
a CD3 zeta amino acid sequence comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of, SEQ
ID NO: 14, 17, or 21.
[0030]      In an embodiment of the invention, the CAR comprises a transmembrane domain
comprising CD28 and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD28 and CD3
zeta. In this regard, the CAR may comprise each of SEQ ID NOs: 15-17. Preferably, the
CAR comprises a) each of SEQ ID NOs: 1-6 and 15-17; b) 7-8 and 15-17; c) 9 and 15-17; or
d) 9-10 and 15-17.
[0031]      In an embodiment of the invention, the CAR comprises a transmembrane domain
comprising CD8 and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD28, CD137, and
CD3 zeta. In this regard, the CAR may comprise each of SEQ ID NOs: 18-21. Preferably,
the CAR comprises a) each of SEQ ID NOs: 1-6 and 18-21; b) 7-8 and 18-21; c) 9 and 18-21;
or d) 9-10 and 18-21.
[0032]      In an embodiment of the invention, the CAR comprises a transmembrane domain
comprising CD8 and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD137 and CD3
zeta. In this regard, the CAR may comprise each of SEQ ID NOs: 12-14. Preferably, the
CAR comprises a) each of SEQ ID NOs: 1-6 and 12-14; b) 7-8 and 12-14; c) 9 and 12-14; or
d) 9-10 and 12-14.
[0033]      Additional embodiments of the invention provide CARs comprising, consisting
of, or consisting essentially of any of, the amino acid sequences set forth in Table 1.
                                             TABLE I
SEQ ID NO:                        Antigen Binding      Transmembrane and Signaling
                                  Domain               Domains
SEQ ID NO: 22                     m971                 -CD8 transmembrane domain
(second generation, version                            -CD137 and CD3Q intracellular T cell
3713098vl

2)                                                       signaling domains
SEQ ID NO: 23 (second             m971                   - CD28 transmembrane domain
generation, version 1)                                   -CD28 and CD3( intracellular T cell
                                                         signaling domains
SEQ ID NO: 24                     m971                   -CD8 transmembrane domain
(third generation)                                       -CD28, CD137, and CD3( intracellular
                                                         T cell signaling domains
[0034]       Included in the scope of the invention are functional portions of the inventive
CARs described herein. The term "functional portion" when used in reference to a CAR
refers to any part or fragment of the CAR of the invention, which part or fragment retains the
biological activity of the CAR of which it is a part (the parent CAR). Functional portions
encompass, for example, those parts of a CAR that retain the ability to recognize target cells,
or detect, treat, or prevent a disease, to a similar extent, the same extent, or to a higher extent,
as the parent CAR. In reference to the parent CAR, the functional portion can comprise, for
instance, about 10%, 25%, 30%, 50%, 68%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or more, of the parent CAR.
[0035]       The functional portion can comprise additional amino acids at the amino or
carboxy terminus of the portion, or at both termini, which additional amino acids are not
found in the amino acid sequence of the parent CAR. Desirably, the additional amino acids
do not interfere with the biological function of the functional portion, e.g., recognize target
cells, detect cancer, treat or prevent cancer, etc. More desirably, the additional amino acids
enhance the biological activity, as compared to the biological activity of the parent CAR.
[0036]       Included in the scope of the invention are functional variants of the inventive
CARs described herein. The term "functional variant" as used herein refers to a CAR,
polypeptide, or protein having substantial or significant sequence identity or similarity to a
parent CAR, which functional variant retains the biological activity of the CAR of which it is
a variant. Functional variants encompass, for example, those variants of the CAR described
herein (the parent CAR) that retain the ability to recognize target cells to a similar extent, the
same extent, or to a higher extent, as the parent CAR. In reference to the parent CAR, the
functional variant can, for instance, be at least about 30%, about 50%, about 75%, about
80%, about 90%, about 98%, about 99% or more identical in amino acid sequence to the
parent CAR.
3713098vl

[0037]       A functional variant can, for example, comprise the amino acid sequence of the
parent CAR with at least one conservative amino acid substitution. Alternatively or
additionally, the functional variants can comprise the amino acid sequence of the parent CAR
with at least one non-conservative amino acid substitution. In this case, it is preferable for
the non-conservative amino acid substitution to not interfere with or inhibit the biological
activity of the functional variant. The non-conservative amino acid substitution may enhance
the biological activity of the functional variant, such that the biological activity of the
functional variant is increased as compared to the parent CAR.
[0038]       Amino acid substitutions of the inventive CARs are preferably conservative amino
acid substitutions. Conservative amino acid substitutions are known in the art, and include
amino acid substitutions in which one amino acid having certain physical and/or chemical
properties is exchanged for another amino acid that has the same or similar chemical or
physical properties. For instance, the conservative amino acid substitution can be an
acidic/negatively charged polar amino acid substituted for another acidic/negatively charged
polar amino acid (e.g., Asp or Glu), an amino acid with a nonpolar side chain substituted for
another amino acid with a nonpolar side chain (e.g., Ala, Gly, Val, Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Pro,
Trp, Cys, Val, etc.), a basic/positively charged polar amino acid substituted for another
basic/positively charged polar amino acid (e.g. Lys, His, Arg, etc.), an uncharged amino acid
with a polar side chain substituted for another uncharged amino acid with a polar side chain
(e.g., Asn, Gln, Ser, Thr, Tyr, etc.), an amino acid with a beta-branched side-chain substituted
for another amino acid with a beta-branched side-chain (e.g., Ile, Thr, and Val), an amino
acid with an aromatic side-chain substituted for another amino acid with an aromatic side
chain (e.g., His, Phe, Trp, and Tyr), etc.
[0039]       The CAR can consist essentially of the specified amino acid sequence or
sequences described herein, such that other components, e.g., other amino acids, do not
materially change the biological activity of the functional variant.
[0040]       The CARs of embodiments of the invention (including functional portions and
functional variants) can be of any length, i.e., can comprise any number of amino acids,
provided that the CARs (or functional portions or functional variants thereof) retain their
biological activity, e.g., the ability to specifically bind to antigen, detect diseased cells in a
mammal, or treat or prevent disease in a mammal, etc. For example, the CAR can be about
3713098vl

50 to about 5000 amino acids long, such as 50, 70, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 300, 400,
500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000 or more amino acids in length.
[00411      The CARs of embodiments of the invention (including functional portions and
functional variants of the invention) can comprise synthetic amino acids in place of one or
more naturally-occurring amino acids. Such synthetic amino acids are known in the art, and
include, for example, aminocyclohexane carboxylic acid, norleucine, a-amino n-decanoic
acid, homoserine, S-acetylaminomethyl-cysteine, trans-3- and trans-4-hydroxyproline, 4
aminophenylalanine, 4- nitrophenylalanine, 4-chlorophenylalanine, 4-carboxyphenylalanine,
  -phenylserine P-hydroxyphenylalanine, phenylglycine, c-naphthylalanine,
cyclohexylalanine, cyclohexylglycine, indoline-2-carboxylic acid, 1,2,3,4
tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, aminomalonic acid, aminomalonic acid
monoamide, N'-benzyl-N'-methyl-lysine, N',N'-dibenzyl-lysine, 6-hydroxylysine, ornithine,
a-aminocyclopentane carboxylic acid, a-aminocyclohexane carboxylic acid, a
aminocycloheptane carboxylic acid, a-(2-amino-2-norbornane)-carboxylic acid, a,y
diaminobutyric acid, a,-diaminopropionic acid, homophenylalanine, and a-tert
butylglycine.
[0042]      The CARs of embodiments of the invention (including functional portions and
functional variants) can be glycosylated, amidated, carboxylated, phosphorylated, esterified,
N-acylated, cyclized via, e.g., a disulfide bridge, or converted into an acid addition salt and/or
optionally dimerized or polymerized, or conjugated.
[0043]      The CARs of embodiments of the invention (including functional portions and
functional variants thereof) can be obtained by methods known in the art. The CARs may be
made by any suitable method of making polypeptides or proteins. Suitable methods of de
novo synthesizing polypeptides and proteins are described in references, such as Chan et al.,
Fmoc Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis, Oxford University Press, Oxford, United Kingdom,
2000; Peptide and ProteinDrug Analysis, ed. Reid, R., Marcel Dekker, Inc., 2000; Epitope
Mapping, ed. Westwood et al., Oxford University Press, Oxford, United Kingdom, 2001; and
U.S. Patent 5,449,752. Also, polypeptides and proteins can be recombinantly produced using
the nucleic acids described herein using standard recombinant methods. See, for instance,
Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3 r" ed., Cold Spring Harbor
3713098vl

Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 2001; and Ausubel et al., CurrentProtocols in Molecular
Biology, Greene Publishing Associates and John Wiley & Sons, NY, 1994. Further, some of
the CARs of the invention (including functional portions and functional variants thereof) can
be isolated and/or purified from a source, such as a plant, a bacterium, an insect, a mammal,
e.g., a rat, a human, etc. Methods of isolation and purification are well-known in the art.
Alternatively, the CARs described herein (including functional portions and functional
variants thereof) can be commercially synthesized by companies, such as Synpep (Dublin,
CA), Peptide Technologies Corp. (Gaithersburg, MD), and Multiple Peptide Systems (San
Diego, CA). In this respect, the inventive CARs can be synthetic, recombinant, isolated,
and/or purified.
[0044]        An embodiment of the invention further provides an antibody, or antigen binding
portion thereof, which specifically binds to an epitope of the CARs of the invention. The
antibody can be any type of immunoglobulin that is known in the art. For instance, the
antibody can be of any isotype, e.g., IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, IgM, etc. The antibody can be
monoclonal or polyclonal. The antibody can be a naturally-occurring antibody, e.g., an
antibody isolated and/or purified from a mammal, e.g., mouse, rabbit, goat, horse, chicken,
hamster, human, etc. Alternatively, the antibody can be a genetically-engineered antibody,
e.g., a humanized antibody or a chimeric antibody. The antibody can be in monomeric or
polymeric form. Also, the antibody can have any level of affinity or avidity for the functional
portion of the inventive CAR.
[0045]        Methods of testing antibodies for the ability to bind to any functional portion of
the inventive CAR are known in the art and include any antibody-antigen binding assay, such
as, for example, radioimmunoassay (RIA), ELISA, Western blot, immunoprecipitation, and
competitive inhibition assays (see, e.g., Janeway et al., infra, and U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2002/0197266 Al).
[00461        Suitable methods of making antibodies are known in the art. For instance,
standard hybridoma methods are described in, e.g., K6h1ler and Milstein, Eur. J. Immunol., 5,
511-519 (1976), Harlow and Lane (eds.), Antibodies: A LaboratoryManual, CSH Press
(1988), and C.A. Janeway et al. (eds.), Immunobiology,       5 th Ed., Garland Publishing, New
York, NY (2001)). Alternatively, other methods, such as EBV-hybridoma methods (Haskard
and Archer, J. Immunol. Methods, 74(2), 361-67 (1984), and Roder et al., Methods Enzymol.,
3713098vl

 121, 140-67 (1986)), and bacteriophage vector expression systems (see, e.g., Huse et al.,
Science, 246, 1275-81 (1989)) are known in the art. Further, methods of producing
antibodies in non-human animals are described in, e.g., U.S. Patents 5,545,806, 5,569,825,
and 5,714,352, and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002/0197266 Al.
[0047]      Phage display furthermore can be used to generate an antibody. In this regard,
phage libraries encoding antigen-binding variable (V) domains of antibodies can be generated
using standard molecular biology and recombinant DNA techniques (see, e.g., Sambrook et
al., supra, and Ausubel et al., supra). Phage encoding a variable region with the desired
specificity are selected for specific binding to the desired antigen, and a complete or partial
antibody is reconstituted comprising the selected variable domain. Nucleic acid sequences
encoding the reconstituted antibody are introduced into a suitable cell line, such as a
 myeloma cell used for hybridoma production, such that antibodies having the characteristics
of monoclonal antibodies are secreted by the cell (see, e.g., Janeway et al., supra, Huse et al.,
supra, and U.S. Patent 6,265,150).
[0048]      Antibodies can be produced by transgenic mice that are transgenic for specific
heavy and light chain immunoglobulin genes. Such methods are known in the art and
described in, for example U.S. Patents 5,545,806 and 5,569,825, and Janeway et al., supra.
[0049]      Methods for generating humanized antibodies are well known in the art and are
described in detail in, for example, Janeway et al., supra, U.S. Patents 5,225,539, 5,585,089
and 5,693,761, European Patent No. 0239400 BI, and United Kingdom Patent No. 2188638.
Humanized antibodies can also be generated using the antibody resurfacing technology
described in U.S. Patent 5,639,641 and Pedersen et al., J. Mol. Biol., 235, 959-973 (1994).
[00501      An embodiment of the invention also provides antigen binding portions of any of
the antibodies described herein. The antigen binding portion can be any portion that has at
least one antigen binding site, such as Fab, F(ab')2, dsFv, sFv, diabodies, and triabodies.
[00511      A single-chain variable region fragment (sFv) antibody fragment, which is a
truncated Fab fragment including the variable (V) domain of an antibody heavy chain linked
to a V domain of a light antibody chain via a synthetic peptide, can be generated using
routine recombinant DNA technology techniques (see, e.g., Janeway et al., supra). Similarly,
disulfide-stabilized variable region fragments (dsFv) can be prepared by recombinant DNA
technology (see, e.g., Reiter et al., ProteinEngineering,7, 697-704 (1994)). Antibody
3713098vl

fragments of the invention, however, are not limited to these exemplary types of antibody
fragments.
[00521      Also, the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, can be modified to
comprise a detectable label, such as, for instance, a radioisotope, a fluorophore (e.g.,
fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), phycoerythrin (PE)), an enzyme (e.g., alkaline
phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase), and element particles (e.g., gold particles).
[0053]      Further provided by an embodiment of the invention is a nucleic acid comprising
a nucleotide sequence encoding any of the CARs described herein (including functional
portions and functional variants thereof). The nucleic acids of the invention may comprise a
nucleotide sequence encoding any of the leader sequences, antigen binding domains,
transmembrane domains, and/or intracellular T cell signaling domains described herein.
[0054]      An embodiment of the invention provides a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide
sequence encoding a leader sequence and an antigen binding domain (including a light chain
variable region and a heavy chain variable region. In this regard, the nucleic acid may
comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 25.
[0055]       The nucleic acids of the invention may comprise a nucleotide sequence encoding
any of the transmembrane domains and/or intracellular T cell signaling domains described
herein. An embodiment of the invention provides a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide
sequence encoding a transmembrane domain comprising CD28, an intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprising CD28, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising
CD3Q. In this regard, the nucleic acid may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of,
SEQ ID NO: 27. Another embodiment of the invention provides a nucleic acid comprising a
nucleotide sequence encoding a transmembrane domain comprising CD8, an intracellular T
cell signaling domain comprising CD28, an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising
CD 137, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD3 G. In this regard, the
nucleic acid may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 28. Still another
embodiment of the invention provides a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence
encoding a transmembrane domain comprising CD8, an intracellular T cell signaling domain
comprising CD137, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD3(. In this
regard, the nucleic acid may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, SEQ ID NO: 26.
3713098vl

[0056]      In an embodiment of the invention, the nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide
sequence that encodes a leader sequence, an antigen binding domain (including a light chain
variable region and a heavy chain variable region), a transmembrane domain comprising
CD28, an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD28, and an intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprising CD3Q. In this regard, the nucleic acid may comprise, consist of,
or consist essentially of, both SEQ ID NOs: 25 and 27.
[0057]      In an embodiment of the invention, the nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide
sequence that encodes a leader sequence, an antigen binding domain (including a light chain
variable region and a heavy chain variable region), a transmembrane domain comprising
CD8, an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising CD28, an intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprising CD137, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain comprising
CD3'. In this regard, the nucleic acid may comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, both
SEQ ID NOs: 25 and 28.
[0058]      In an embodiment, the nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes
a leader sequence, an antigen binding domain (including a light chain variable region and a
heavy chain variable region), a transmembrane domain comprising CD8, an intracellular T
cell signaling domain comprising CD137, and an intracellular T cell signaling domain
comprising CD3(. In this regard, the nucleic acid may comprise, consist of, or consist
essentially of, both SEQ ID NOs: 25 and 26.
[0059]      "Nucleic acid" as used herein includes "polynucleotide," "oligonucleotide," and
"nucleic acid molecule," and generally means a polymer of DNA or RNA, which can be
single-stranded or double-stranded, synthesized or obtained (e.g., isolated and/or purified)
from natural sources, which can contain natural, non-natural or altered nucleotides, and
which can contain a natural, non-natural or altered internucleotide linkage, such as a
phosphoroamidate linkage or a phosphorothioate linkage, instead of the phosphodiester found
between the nucleotides of an unmodified oligonucleotide. In some embodiments, the
nucleic acid does not comprise any insertions, deletions, inversions, and/or substitutions.
However, it may be suitable in some instances, as discussed herein, for the nucleic acid to
comprise one or more insertions, deletions, inversions, and/or substitutions. In some
embodiments, the nucleic acid may encode additional amino acid sequences that do not affect
3713098vl

the function of the CAR and which may or may not be translated upon expression of the
nucleic acid by a host cell.
[0060]       The nucleic acids of an embodiment of the invention may be recombinant. As
used herein, the term "recombinant" refers to (i) molecules that are constructed outside living
cells by joining natural or synthetic nucleic acid segments to nucleic acid molecules that can
replicate in a living cell, or (ii) molecules that result from the replication of those described in
(i) above. For purposes herein, the replication can be in vitro replication or in vivo
replication.
[0061]       A recombinant nucleic acid may be one that has a sequence that is not naturally
occurring or has a sequence that is made by an artificial combination of two otherwise
separated segments of sequence. This artificial combination is often accomplished by
chemical synthesis or, more commonly, by the artificial manipulation of isolated segments of
nucleic acids, e.g., by genetic engineering techniques, such as those described in Sambrook et
al., supra. The nucleic acids can be constructed based on chemical synthesis and/or
enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. See, for example, Sambrook
et al., supra, and Ausubel et al., supra. For example, a nucleic acid can be chemically
synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides designed
to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical stability of the
duplex formed upon hybridization (e.g., phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted
nucleotides). Examples of modified nucleotides that can be used to generate the nucleic acids
include, but are not limited to, 5-fluorouracil, 5-bromouracil, 5-chlorouracil, 5-iodouracil,
hypoxanthine, xanthine, 4-acetylcytosine, 5-(carboxyhydroxymethyl) uracil, 5
carboxymethylaminomethyl-2-thiouridine, 5-carboxymethylaminomethyluracil,
dihydrouracil, beta-D-galactosylqueosine, inosine, N6 -isopentenyladenine, I -methylguanine,
1-methylinosine, 2,2-dimethylguanine, 2-methyladenine, 2-methylguanine, 3-methylcytosine,
5-methylcytosine, N 6-substituted adenine, 7-methylguanine, 5-methylaminomethyluracil, 5
methoxyaminomethyl-2-thiouracil, beta-D-mannosylqueosine, 5'
methoxycarboxymethyluracil, 5-methoxyuracil, 2-methylthio-N6 -isopentenyladenine, uracil
5-oxyacetic acid (v), wybutoxosine, pseudouracil, queosine, 2-thiocytosine, 5-methyl-2
thiouracil, 2-thiouracil, 4-thiouracil, 5-methyluracil, uracil-5-oxyacetic acid methylester, 3
(3-amino-3-N-2-carboxypropyl) uracil, and 2,6-diaminopurine. Alternatively, one or more of
3713098vl

the nucleic acids of the invention can be purchased from companies, such as Macromolecular
Resources (Fort Collins, CO) and Synthegen (Houston, TX).
[00621       The nucleic acid can comprise any isolated or purified nucleotide sequence which
encodes any of the CARs or functional portions or functional variants thereof. Alternatively,
the nucleotide sequence can comprise a nucleotide sequence which is degenerate to any of the
sequences or a combination of degenerate sequences.
[0063]       An embodiment of the invention also provides an isolated or purified nucleic acid
comprising a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence of any
of the nucleic acids described herein or a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under
stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence of any of the nucleic acids described herein.
[0064]       The nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under stringent conditions may
hybridize under high stringency conditions. By "high stringency conditions" is meant that
the nucleotide sequence specifically hybridizes to a target sequence (the nucleotide sequence
of any of the nucleic acids described herein) in an amount that is detectably stronger than
non-specific hybridization. High stringency conditions include conditions which would
distinguish a polynucleotide with an exact complementary sequence, or one containing only a
few scattered mismatches from a random sequence that happened to have a few small regions
(e.g., 3-10 bases) that matched the nucleotide sequence. Such small regions of
complementarity are more easily melted than a full-length complement of 14-17 or more
bases, and high stringency hybridization makes them easily distinguishable. Relatively high
stringency conditions would include, for example, low salt and/or high temperature
conditions, such as provided by about 0.02-0.1 M NaCl or the equivalent, at temperatures of
about 50-70 'C. Such high stringency conditions tolerate little, if any, mismatch between the
nucleotide sequence and the template or target strand, and are particularly suitable for
detecting expression of any of the inventive CARs. It is generally appreciated that conditions
can be rendered more stringent by the addition of increasing amounts of formamide.
[0065]       The invention also provides a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence that
is at least about 70% or more, e.g., about 80%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about
93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, or about 99% identical to
any of the nucleic acids described herein.
3713098vl

[0066]      In an embodiment, the nucleic acids of the invention can be incorporated into a
recombinant expression vector. In this regard, an embodiment of the invention provides
recombinant expression vectors comprising any of the nucleic acids of the invention. For
purposes herein, the term "recombinant expression vector" means a genetically-modified
oligonucleotide or polynucleotide construct that permits the expression of an mRNA, protein,
polypeptide, or peptide by a host cell, when the construct comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding the mRNA, protein, polypeptide, or peptide, and the vector is contacted with the
cell under conditions sufficient to have the mRNA, protein, polypeptide, or peptide expressed
within the cell. The vectors of the invention are not naturally-occurring as a whole.
However, parts of the vectors can be naturally-occurring. The inventive recombinant
expression vectors can comprise any type of nucleotides, including, but not limited to DNA
and RNA, which can be single-stranded or double-stranded, synthesized or obtained in part
from natural sources, and which can contain natural, non-natural or altered nucleotides. The
recombinant expression vectors can comprise naturally-occurring or non-naturally-occurring
internucleotide linkages, or both types of linkages. Preferably, the non-naturally occurring or
altered nucleotides or internucleotide linkages do not hinder the transcription or replication of
the vector.
[0067]      In an embodiment, the recombinant expression vector of the invention can be any
suitable recombinant expression vector, and can be used to transform or transfect any suitable
host cell. Suitable vectors include those designed for propagation and expansion or for
expression or both, such as plasmids and viruses. The vector can be selected from the group
consisting of the pUC series (Fermentas Life Sciences, Glen Burnie, MD), the pBluescript
series (Stratagene, LaJolla, CA), the pET series (Novagen, Madison, WI), the pGEX series
(Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden), and the pEX series (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA).
Bacteriophage vectors, such as GT10, XGT 11, ?ZapIl (Stratagene), XEMBL4, and
?NM1 149, also can be used. Examples of plant expression vectors include pBIOl, pBI101.2,
pBI101.3, pBIl21 and pBIN19 (Clontech). Examples of animal expression vectors include
pEUK-Cl, pMAM, and pMAMneo (Clontech). The recombinant expression vector may be a
viral vector, e.g., a retroviral vector or a lentiviral vector. In some embodiments, the vector
can be a transposon.
3713098vl

[0068]       A number of transfection techniques are generally known in the art (see, e.g.,
Graham et al., Virology, 52: 456-467 (1973); Sambrook et al., supra; Davis et al., Basic
Methods in MolecularBiology, Elsevier (1986); and Chu et al., Gene, 13: 97 (1981).
Transfection methods include calcium phosphate co-precipitation (see, e.g., Graham et al.,
supra), direct micro injection into cultured cells (see, e.g., Capecchi, Cell, 22: 479-488
(1980)), electroporation (see, e.g., Shigekawa et al., BioTechniques, 6: 742-751 (1988)),
liposome mediated gene transfer (see, e.g., Mannino et al., BioTechniques, 6: 682-690
(1988)), lipid mediated transduction (see, e.g., Felgner et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 84:
7413-7417 (1987)), and nucleic acid delivery using high velocity microprojectiles (see, e.g.,
Klein et al., Nature, 327: 70-73 (1987)).
[0069]       In an embodiment, the recombinant expression vectors of the invention can be
prepared using standard recombinant DNA techniques described in, for example, Sambrook
et al., supra, and Ausubel et al., supra. Constructs of expression vectors, which are circular
or linear, can be prepared to contain a replication system functional in a prokaryotic or
eukaryotic host cell. Replication systems can be derived, e.g., from ColEl, 2 t plasmid, k,
SV40, bovine papilloma virus, and the like.
[0070]       The recombinant expression vector may comprise regulatory sequences, such as
transcription and translation initiation and termination codons, which are specific to the type
of host cell (e.g., bacterium, fungus, plant, or animal) into which the vector is to be
introduced, as appropriate, and taking into consideration whether the vector is DNA- or
RNA-based. Examples of sequences including termination codons include SEQ ID NOs: 32
33. The recombinant expression vector may comprise restriction sites to facilitate cloning.
Examples of sequences including restriction sites include SEQ ID NOs: 29-31.
[0071]       The recombinant expression vector can include one or more marker genes, which
allow for selection of transformed or transfected host cells. Marker genes include biocide
resistance, e.g., resistance to antibiotics, heavy metals, etc., complementation in an
auxotrophic host to provide prototrophy, and the like. Suitable marker genes for the
inventive expression vectors include, for instance, neomycin/G418 resistance genes,
hygromycin resistance genes, histidinol resistance genes, tetracycline resistance genes, and
ampicillin resistance genes.
3713098vl

[0072]      The recombinant expression vector can comprise a native or nonnative promoter
operably linked to the nucleotide sequence encoding the CAR (including functional portions
and functional variants thereof), or to the nucleotide sequence which is complementary to or
which hybridizes to the nucleotide sequence encoding the CAR. The selection of promoters,
e.g., strong, weak, inducible, tissue-specific and developmental-specific, is within the
ordinary skill of the artisan. Similarly, the combining of a nucleotide sequence with a
promoter is also within the skill of the artisan. The promoter can be a non-viral promoter or a
viral promoter, e.g., a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter, an SV40 promoter, an RSV
promoter, or a promoter found in the long-terminal repeat of the murine stem cell virus.
[0073]      The inventive recombinant expression vectors can be designed for either transient
expression, for stable expression, or for both. Also, the recombinant expression vectors can
be made for constitutive expression or for inducible expression.
[0074]      Further, the recombinant expression vectors can be made to include a suicide
gene. As used herein, the term "suicide gene" refers to a gene that causes the cell expressing
the suicide gene to die. The suicide gene can be a gene that confers sensitivity to an agent,
e.g., a drug, upon the cell in which the gene is expressed, and causes the cell to die when the
cell is contacted with or exposed to the agent. Suicide genes are known in the art (see, for
example, Suicide Gene Therapy: Methods and Reviews, Springer, Caroline J. (Cancer
Research UK Centre for Cancer Therapeutics at the Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton,
Surrey, UK), Humana Press, 2004) and include, for example, the Herpes Simplex Virus
(HSV) thymidine kinase (TK) gene, cytosine daminase, purine nucleoside phosphorylase, and
nitroreductase.
[00751      Included in the scope of the invention are conjugates, e.g., bioconjugates,
comprising any of the inventive CARs (including any of the functional portions or variants
thereof), nucleic acids, recombinant expression vectors, host cells, populations of host cells,
or antibodies, or antigen binding portions thereof Conjugates, as well as methods of
synthesizing conjugates in general, are known in the art (See, for instance, Hudecz, F.,
Methods Mol. Biol. 298: 209-223 (2005) and Kirin et al., Inorg Chem. 44(15): 5405-5415
(2005)).
[0076]      An embodiment of the invention further provides a host cell comprising any of the
recombinant expression vectors described herein. As used herein, the term "host cell" refers
3713098vl

to any type of cell that can contain the inventive recombinant expression vector. The host
cell can be a eukaryotic cell, e.g., plant, animal, fungi, or algae, or can be a prokaryotic cell,
e.g., bacteria or protozoa. The host cell can be a cultured cell or a primary cell, i.e., isolated
directly from an organism, e.g., a human. The host cell can be an adherent cell or a
suspended cell, i.e., a cell that grows in suspension. Suitable host cells are known in the art
and include, for instance, DH5a E. coli cells, Chinese hamster ovarian cells, monkey VERO
cells, COS cells, HEK293 cells, and the like. For purposes of amplifying or replicating the
recombinant expression vector, the host cell may be a prokaryotic cell, e.g., a DH5a cell. For
purposes of producing a recombinant CAR, the host cell may be a mammalian cell. The host
cell may be a human cell. While the host cell can be of any cell type, can originate from any
type of tissue, and can be of any developmental stage, the host cell may be a peripheral blood
lymphocyte (PBL) or a peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC). The host cell may be a T
cell.
[0077]       For purposes herein, the T cell can be any T cell, such as a cultured T cell, e.g., a
primary T cell, or a T cell from a cultured T cell line, e.g., Jurkat, SupTI, etc., or a T cell
obtained from a mammal. If obtained from a mammal, the T cell can be obtained from
numerous sources, including but not limited to blood, bone marrow, lymph node, the thymus,
or other tissues or fluids. T cells can also be enriched for or purified. The T cell may be a
human T cell. The T cell may be a T cell isolated from a human. The T cell can be any type
of T cell and can be of any developmental stage, including but not limited to, CD4*/CD8*
double positive T cells, CD4* helper T cells, e.g., Thi and Th2 cells, CD8* T cells (e.g.,
cytotoxic T cells), tumor infiltrating cells, memory T cells, naYve T cells, and the like. The T
cell may be a CD8* T cell or a CD4* T cell.
[0078]       Also provided by an embodiment of the invention is a population of cells
comprising at least one host cell described herein. The population of cells can be a
heterogeneous population comprising the host cell comprising any of the recombinant
expression vectors described, in addition to at least one other cell, e.g., a host cell (e.g., a T
cell), which does not comprise any of the recombinant expression vectors, or a cell other than
a T cell, e.g., a B cell, a macrophage, a neutrophil, an erythrocyte, a hepatocyte, an
endothelial cell, an epithelial cell, a muscle cell, a brain cell, etc. Alternatively, the
population of cells can be a substantially homogeneous population, in which the population
3713098vl

comprises mainly host cells (e.g., consisting essentially of) comprising the recombinant
expression vector. The population also can be a clonal population of cells, in which all cells
of the population are clones of a single host cell comprising a recombinant expression vector,
such that all cells of the population comprise the recombinant expression vector. In one
embodiment of the invention, the population of cells is a clonal population comprising host
cells comprising a recombinant expression vector as described herein.
[0079]      CARs (including functional portions and variants thereof), nucleic acids,
recombinant expression vectors, host cells (including populations thereof), and antibodies
(including antigen binding portions thereof), all of which are collectively referred to as
"inventive CAR materials" hereinafter, can be isolated and/or purified. The term "isolated"
as used herein means having been removed from its natural environment. The term
"purified" or "isolated" does not require absolute purity or isolation; rather, it is intended as a
relative term. Thus, for example, a purified (or isolated) host cell preparation is one in which
the host cell is more pure than cells in their natural environment within the body. Such host
cells may be produced, for example, by standard purification techniques. In some
embodiments, a preparation of a host cell is purified such that the host cell represents at least
about 50%, for example at least about 70%, of the total cell content of the preparation. For
example, the purity can be at least about 50%, can be greater than about 60%, about 70% or
about 80%, or can be about 100%.
[0080]      The inventive CAR materials can be formulated into a composition, such as a
pharmaceutical composition. In this regard, an embodiment of the invention provides a
pharmaceutical composition comprising any of the CARs, functional portions, functional
variants, nucleic acids, expression vectors, host cells (including populations thereof), and
antibodies (including antigen binding portions thereof), and a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier. The inventive pharmaceutical compositions containing any of the inventive CAR
materials can comprise more than one inventive CAR material, e.g., a CAR and a nucleic
acid, or two or more different CARs. Alternatively, the pharmaceutical composition can
comprise an inventive CAR material in combination with other pharmaceutically active
agents or drugs, such as chemotherapeutic agents, e.g., asparaginase, busulfan, carboplatin,
cisplatin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, fluorouracil, gemcitabine, hydroxyurea, methotrexate,
3713098vl

paclitaxel, rituximab, vinblastine, vincristine, etc. In a preferred embodiment, the
pharmaceutical composition comprises the inventive host cell or populations thereof
[00811      The inventive CAR materials can be provided in the form of a salt, e.g., a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts
include those derived from mineral acids, such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, phosphoric,
metaphosphoric, nitric, and sulphuric acids, and organic acids, such as tartaric, acetic, citric,
malic, lactic, fumaric, benzoic, glycolic, gluconic, succinic, and arylsulphonic acids, for
example, p-toluenesulphonic acid.
[0082]      With respect to pharmaceutical compositions, the pharamaceutically acceptable
carrier can be any of those conventionally used and is limited only by chemico-physical
considerations, such as solubility and lack of reactivity with the active agentss, and by the
route of administration. The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers described herein, for
example, vehicles, adjuvants, excipients, and diluents, are well-known to those skilled in the
art and are readily available to the public. It is preferred that the pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier be one which is chemically inert to the active agent(s) and one which has no
detrimental side effects or toxicity under the conditions of use.
[0083]      The choice of carrier will be determined in part by the particular inventive CAR
material, as well as by the particular method used to administer the inventive CAR material.
Accordingly, there are a variety of suitable formulations of the pharmaceutical composition
of the invention. Preservatives may be used. Suitable preservatives may include, for
example, methylparaben, propylparaben, sodium benzoate, and benzalkonium chloride. A
mixture of two or more preservatives optionally may be used. The preservative or mixtures
thereof are typically present in an amount of about 0.0001% to about 2% by weight of the
total composition.
[0084]       Suitable buffering agents may include, for example, citric acid, sodium citrate,
phosphoric acid, potassium phosphate, and various other acids and salts. A mixture of two or
more buffering agents optionally may be used. The buffering agent or mixtures thereof are
typically present in an amount of about 0.00 1% to about 4% by weight of the total
composition.
[0085]      The concentration of inventive CAR material in the pharmaceutical formulations
can vary, e.g., from less than about 1%, usually at or at least about 10%, to as much as about
3713098vl

20% to about 50% or more by weight, and can be selected primarily by fluid volumes, and
viscosities, in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected.
[00861       Methods for preparing administrable (e.g., parenterally administrable)
compositions are known or apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in more
detail in, for example, Remington: The Science and Practiceof Pharmacy, Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 21st ed. (May 1, 2005).
[0087]       The following formulations for oral, aerosol, parenteral (e.g., subcutaneous,
intravenous, intraarterial, intramuscular, intradermal, interperitoneal, and intrathecal), and
topical administration are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting. More than one route
can be used to administer the inventive CAR materials, and in certain instances, a particular
route can provide a more immediate and more effective response than another route.
[0088]       Formulations suitable for oral administration can comprise or consist of (a) liquid
solutions, such as an effective amount of the inventive CAR material dissolved in diluents,
such as water, saline, or orange juice; (b) capsules, sachets, tablets, lozenges, and troches,
each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient, as solids or granules; (c)
powders; (d) suspensions in an appropriate liquid; and (e) suitable emulsions. Liquid
formulations may include diluents, such as water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzyl
alcohol, and the polyethylene alcohols, either with or without the addition of a
pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant. Capsule forms can be of the ordinary hard or
softshelled gelatin type containing, for example, surfactants, lubricants, and inert fillers, such
as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, and corn starch. Tablet forms can include one or
more of lactose, sucrose, mannitol, corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid, microciystalline
cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum, colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, talc,
magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, zinc stearate, stearic acid, and other excipients,
colorants, diluents, buffering agents, disintegrating agents, moistening agents, preservatives,
flavoring agents, and other pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge forms can
comprise the inventive CAR material in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as
well as pastilles comprising the inventive CAR material in an inert base, such as gelatin and
glycerin, or sucrose and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in addition to, such
excipients as are known in the art.
3713098vl

[0089]      Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and
nonaqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain antioxidants, buffers,
bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended
recipient, and aqueous and nonaqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending
agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives. The inventive CAR
material can be administered in a physiologically acceptable diluent in a pharmaceutical
carrier, such as a sterile liquid or mixture of liquids, including water, saline, aqueous dextrose
and related sugar solutions, an alcohol, such as ethanol or hexadecyl alcohol, a glycol, such
as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol, dimethylsulfoxide, glycerol, ketals such as 2,2
dimethyl- 1,3 -dioxolane-4-methanol, ethers, poly(ethyleneglycol) 400, oils, fatty acids, fatty
acid esters or glycerides, or acetylated fatly acid glycerides with or without the addition of a
pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, such as a soap or a detergent, suspending agent, such
as pectin, carbomers, methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, or
carboxymethylcellulose, or emulsifying agents and other pharmaceutical adjuvants.
[0090]      Oils, which can be used in parenteral formulations include petroleum, animal,
vegetable, or synthetic oils. Specific examples of oils include peanut, soybean, sesame,
cottonseed, corn, olive, petrolatum, and mineral. Suitable fatty acids for use in parenteral
formulations include oleic acid, stearic acid, and isostearic acid. Ethyl oleate and isopropyl
myristate are examples of suitable fatty acid esters.
[0091]      Suitable soaps for use in parenteral formulations include fatty alkali metal,
ammonium, and triethanolamine salts, and suitable detergents include (a) cationic detergents
such as, for example, dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides, and alkyl pyridinium halides, (b)
anionic detergents such as, for example, alkyl, aryl, and olefin sulfonates, alkyl, olefin, ether,
and monoglyceride sulfates, and sulfosuccinates, (c) nonionic detergents such as, for
example, fatty amine oxides, fatty acid alkanolamides, and polyoxyethylenepolypropylene
copolymers, (d) amphoteric detergents such as, for example, alkyl-3-aminopropionates, and
2-alkyl-imidazoline quaternary ammonium salts, and (e) mixtures thereof.
[0092]      The parenteral formulations will typically contain, for example, from about 0.5%
to about 25% by weight of the inventive CAR material in solution. Preservatives and buffers
may be used. In order to minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of injection, such
compositions may contain one or more nonionic surfactants having, for example, a
3713098vl

hydrophile-lipophile balance (HLB) of from about 12 to about 17. The quantity of surfactant
in such formulations will typically range, for example, from about 5% to about 15% by
weight. Suitable surfactants include polyethylene glycol sorbitan fatty acid esters, such as
sorbitan monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts of ethylene oxide with a
hydrophobic base, formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol.
The parenteral formulations can be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed containers,
such as ampoules and vials, and can be stored in a freeze-dried lyophilizedd) condition
requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid excipient, for example, water, for injections,
immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions can be
prepared from sterile powders, granules, and tablets of the kind previously described.
[0093]      Injectable formulations are in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
The requirements for effective pharmaceutical carriers for injectable compositions are well
known to those of ordinary skill in the art (see, e.g., Pharmaceuticsand PharmacyPractice,
J.B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, PA, Banker and Chalmers, eds., pages 238-250
(1982), and ASHP Handbook on Injectable Drugs, Toissel, 4th ed., pages 622-630 (1986)).
[0094]      Topical formulations, including those that are useful for transdermal drug release,
are well known to those of skill in the art and are suitable in the context of embodiments of
the invention for application to skin. The inventive CAR material, alone or in combination
with other suitable components, can be made into aerosol formulations to be administered via
inhalation. These aerosol formulations can be placed into pressurized acceptable propellants,
such as dichlorodifluoromethane, propane, nitrogen, and the like. They also may be
formulated as pharmaceuticals for non-pressured preparations, such as in a nebulizer or an
atomizer. Such spray formulations also may be used to spray mucosa.
[0095]      An "effective amount" or "an amount effective to treat" refers to a dose that is
adequate to prevent or treat cancer in an individual. Amounts effective for a therapeutic or
prophylactic use will depend on, for example, the stage and severity of the disease or disorder
being treated, the age, weight, and general state of health of the patient, and the judgment of
the prescribing physician. The size of the dose will also be determined by the active selected,
method of administration, timing and frequency of administration, the existence, nature, and
extent of any adverse side-effects that might accompany the administration of a particular
active, and the desired physiological effect. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art
3713098vl

that various diseases or disorders could require prolonged treatment involving multiple
administrations, perhaps using the inventive CAR materials in each or various rounds of
administration. By way of example and not intending to limit the invention, the dose of the
inventive CAR material can be about 0.001 to about 1000 mg/kg body weight of the subject
being treated/day, from about 0.01 to about 10 mg/kg body weight/day, about 0.01 mg to
about 1 mg/kg body weight/day. When the inventive CAR material is a host cell, an
exemplary dose of host cells may be a minimum of one million cells (1 mg cells/dose).
When the inventive CAR material is a nucleic acid packaged in a virus, an exemplary dose of
virus may be 1 ng/dose.
[0096]       For purposes of the invention, the amount or dose of the inventive CAR material
administered should be sufficient to effect a therapeutic or prophylactic response in the
subject or animal over a reasonable time frame. For example, the dose of the inventive CAR
material should be sufficient to bind to antigen, or detect, treat or prevent disease in a period
of from about 2 hours or longer, e.g., about 12 to about 24 or more hours, from the time of
administration. In certain embodiments, the time period could be even longer. The dose will
be determined by the efficacy of the particular inventive CAR material and the condition of
the animal (e.g., human), as well as the body weight of the animal (e.g., human) to be treated.
[0097]       For purposes of the invention, an assay, which comprises, for example, comparing
the extent to which target cells are lysed and/or IFN-y is secreted by T cells expressing the
inventive CAR upon administration of a given dose of such T cells to a mammal, among a set
of mammals of which is each given a different dose of the T cells, could be used to determine
a starting dose to be administered to a mammal. The extent to which target cells are lysed
and/or IFN-y is secreted upon administration of a certain dose can be assayed by methods
known in the art.
[0098]       In addition to the aforedescribed pharmaceutical compositions, the inventive CAR
materials can be formulated as inclusion complexes, such as cyclodextrin inclusion
complexes, or liposomes. Liposomes can serve to target the inventive CAR materials to a
particular tissue. Liposomes also can be used to increase the half-life of the inventive CAR
materials. Many methods are available for preparing liposomes, as described in, for example,
Szoka et al., Ann. Rev. Biophys. Bioeng., 9, 467 (1980) and U.S. Patents 4,235,871,
4,501,728, 4,837,028, and 5,019,369.
3713098vl

[0099]      The delivery systems useful in the context of embodiments of the invention may
include time-released, delayed release, and sustained release delivery systems such that the
delivery of the inventive composition occurs prior to, and with sufficient time to cause,
sensitization of the site to be treated. The inventive composition can be used in conjunction
with other therapeutic agents or therapies. Such systems can avoid repeated administrations
of the inventive composition, thereby increasing convenience to the subject and the
physician, and may be particularly suitable for certain composition embodiments of the
invention.
[0100]      Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of
ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer base systems such as poly(lactide-glycolide),
copolyoxalates, polycaprolactones, polyesteramides, polyorthoesters, polyhydroxybutyric
acid, and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are
described in, for example, U.S. Patent 5,075,109. Delivery systems also include non-polymer
systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol, cholesterol esters, and fatty acids
or neutral fats such as mono-di-and tri-glycerides; hydrogel release systems; sylastic systems;
peptide based systems; wax coatings; compressed tablets using conventional binders and
excipients; partially fused implants; and the like. Specific examples include, but are not
limited to: (a) erosional systems in which the active composition is contained in a form
within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Patents 4,452,775, 4,667,014, 4,748,034, and
5,239,660 and (b) diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a
controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Patents 3,832,253 and 3,854,480. In
addition, pump-based hardware delivery systems can be used, some of which are adapted for
implantation.
[0101]      One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the inventive CAR
materials of the invention can be modified in any number of ways, such that the therapeutic
or prophylactic efficacy of the inventive CAR materials is increased through the
modification. For instance, the inventive CAR materials can be conjugated either directly or
indirectly through a linker to a targeting moiety. The practice of conjugating compounds,
e.g., inventive CAR materials, to targeting moieties is known in the art. See, for instance,
Wadwa et al., J. Drug Targeting 3:111 (1995) and U.S. Patent 5,087,616.
3713098vl

[0102]      Alternatively, the inventive CAR materials can be modified into a depot form,
such that the manner in which the inventive CAR materials is released into the body to which
it is administered is controlled with respect to time and location within the body (see, for
example, U.S. Patent 4,450,150). Depot forms of inventive CAR materials can be, for
example, an implantable composition comprising the inventive CAR materials and a porous
or non-porous material, such as a polymer, wherein the inventive CAR materials are
encapsulated by or diffused throughout the material and/or degradation of the non-porous
material. The depot is then implanted into the desired location within the body and the
inventive CAR materials are released from the implant at a predetermined rate.
[0103]      When the inventive CAR materials are administered with one or more additional
therapeutic agents, one or more additional therapeutic agents can be coadministered to the
mammal. By "coadministering" is meant administering one or more additional therapeutic
agents and the inventive CAR materials sufficiently close in time such that the inventive
CAR materials can enhance the effect of one or more additional therapeutic agents, or vice
versa. In this regard, the inventive CAR materials can be administered first and the one or
more additional therapeutic agents can be administered second, or vice versa. Alternatively,
the inventive CAR materials and the one or more additional therapeutic agents can be
administered simultaneously. An exemplary therapeutic agent that can be co-administered
with the CAR materials is IL-2. It is believed that IL-2 enhances the therapeutic effect of the
inventive CAR materials. For purposes of the inventive methods, wherein host cells or
populations of cells are administered to the mammal, the cells can be cells that are allogeneic
or autologous to the mammal.
[01041      It is contemplated that the inventive pharmaceutical compositions, CARs, nucleic
acids, recombinant expression vectors, host cells, or populations of cells can be used in
methods of treating or preventing a disease in a mammal. Without being bound to a
particular theory or mechanism, the inventive CARs have biological activity, e.g., ability to
recognize antigen, e.g., CD22, such that the CAR when expressed by a cell is able to mediate
an immune response against the cell expressing the antigen, e.g., CD22, for which the CAR is
specific. In this regard, an embodiment of the invention provides a method of treating or
preventing cancer in a mammal, comprising administering to the mammal the CARs, the
nucleic acids, the recombinant expression vectors, the host cells, the population of cells, the
3713098vl

antibodies and/or the antigen binding portions thereof, and/or the pharmaceutical
compositions of the invention in an amount effective to treat or prevent cancer in the
mammal.
[0105]       An embodiment of the invention further comprises lymphodepleting the mammal
prior to administering the inventive CAR materials. Examples of lymphodepletion include,
but may not be limited to, nonmyeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy, myeloablative
lymphodepleting chemotherapy, total body irradiation, etc.
[0106]       For purposes of the inventive methods, wherein host cells or populations of cells
are administered, the cells can be cells that are allogeneic or autologous to the mammal.
Preferably, the cells are autologous to the mammal.
[0107]       The mammal referred to herein can be any mammal. As used herein, the term
"mammal" refers to any mammal, including, but not limited to, mammals of the order
Rodentia, such as mice and hamsters, and mammals of the order Logomorpha, such as
rabbits. The mammals may be from the order Carnivora, including Felines (cats) and
Canines (dogs). The mammals may be from the order Artiodactyla, including Bovines
(cows) and Swines (pigs) or of the order Perssodactyla, including Equines (horses). The
mammals may be of the order Primates, Ceboids, or Simoids (monkeys) or of the order
Anthropoids (humans and apes). Preferably, the mammal is a human.
[01081       With respect to the inventive methods, the cancer can be any cancer, including
any of acute lymphocytic cancer, acute myeloid leukemia, alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma,
bladder cancer (e.g., bladder carcinoma), bone cancer, brain cancer (e.g., medulloblastoma),
breast cancer, cancer of the anus, anal canal, or anorectum, cancer of the eye, cancer of the
intrahepatic bile duct, cancer of the joints, cancer of the neck, gallbladder, or pleura, cancer
of the nose, nasal cavity, or middle ear, cancer of the oral cavity, cancer of the vulva, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid cancer, colon cancer, esophageal cancer, cervical
cancer, fibrosarcoma, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor, head and neck cancer (e.g., head and
neck squamous cell carcinoma), Hodgkin lymphoma, hypopharynx cancer, kidney cancer,
larynx cancer, leukemia, liquid tumors, liver cancer, lung cancer (e.g., non-small cell lung
carcinoma), lymphoma, malignant mesothelioma, mastocytoma, melanoma, multiple
myeloma, nasopharynx cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
hairy cell leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and Burkitt's lymphoma, ovarian
3713098vl

cancer, pancreatic cancer, peritoneum, omentum, and mesentery cancer, pharynx cancer,
prostate cancer, rectal cancer, renal cancer, skin cancer, small intestine cancer, soft tissue
cancer, solid tumors, stomach cancer, testicular cancer, thyroid cancer, and ureter cancer.
Preferably, the cancer is a hematological malignancy (e.g., leukemia or lymphoma, including
but not limited to Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, acute lymphocytic cancer, acute myeloid leukemia, B-chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and Burkitt's lymphoma).
Preferably, the cancer is characterized by the expression of CD22.
[0109]       The terms "treat," and "prevent" as well as words stemming therefrom, as used
herein, do not necessarily imply 100% or complete treatment or prevention. Rather, there are
varying degrees of treatment or prevention of which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes
as having a potential benefit or therapeutic effect. In this respect, the inventive methods can
provide any amount of any level of treatment or prevention of cancer in a mammal.
Furthermore, the treatment or prevention provided by the inventive method can include
treatment or prevention of one or more conditions or symptoms of the disease, e.g., cancer,
being treated or prevented. Also, for purposes herein, "prevention" can encompass delaying
the onset of the disease, or a symptom or condition thereof.
[0110]       Another embodiment of the invention provides a use of the inventive CARs,
nucleic acids, recombinant expression vectors, host cells, populations of cells, antibodies, or
antigen binding portions thereof, or pharmaceutical compositions, for the treatment or
prevention of cancer in a mammal.
[0111]       Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of detecting the presence
of cancer in a mammal, comprising: (a) contacting a sample comprising one or more cells
from the mammal with the CARs, the nucleic acids, the recombinant expression vectors, the
host cells, the population of cells, the antibodies, and/or the antigen binding portions thereof
of the invention, thereby forming a complex, (b) and detecting the complex, wherein
detection of the complex is indicative of the presence of cancer in the mammal.
[0112]       The sample may be obtained by any suitable method, e.g., biopsy or necropsy. A
biopsy is the removal of tissue and/or cells from an individual. Such removal may be to
collect tissue and/or cells from the individual in order to perform experimentation on the
removed tissue and/or cells. This experimentation may include experiments to determine if
3713098vl

the individual has and/or is suffering from a certain condition or disease-state. The condition
or disease may be, e.g., cancer.
[0113]       With respect to an embodiment of the inventive method of detecting the presence
of cancer in a mammal, the sample comprising cells of the mammalcan be a sample
comprising whole cells, lysates thereof, or a fraction of the whole cell lysates, e.g., a nuclear
or cytoplasmic fraction, a whole protein fraction, or a nucleic acid fraction. If the sample
comprises whole cells, the cells can be any cells of the mammal, e.g., the cells of any organ
or tissue, including blood cells or endothelial cells.
[0114]       For purposes of the inventive detecting method, the contacting can take place in
vitro or in vivo with respect to the mammal. Preferably, the contacting is in vitro.
[0115]       Also, detection of the complex can occur through any number of ways known in
the art. For instance, the inventive TCRs, polypeptides, proteins, nucleic acids, recombinant
expression vectors, host cells, populations of cells, or antibodies, or antigen binding portions
thereof, described herein, can be labeled with a detectable label such as, for instance, a
radioisotope, a fluorophore (e.g., fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), phycoerythrin (PE)), an
enzyme (e.g., alkaline phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase), and element particles (e.g., gold
particles).
[0116]       Methods of testing a CAR for the ability to recognize target cells and for antigen
specificity are known in the art. For instance, Clay et al., J. Immunol., 163: 507-513 (1999),
teaches methods of measuring the release of cytokines (e.g., interferon-Y,
granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), tumor necrosis factor a (TNF-ax)
or interleukin 2 (IL-2)). In addition, CAR function can be evaluated by measurement of
cellular cytoxicity, as described in Zhao et al., J. Immunol., 174: 4415-4423 (2005).
[0117]       The following examples further illustrate the invention but, of course, should not
be construed as in any way limiting its scope.
                                          EXAMPLE 1
[0118]       This example demonstrates the synthesis of anti-CD22 CARs, transduction of
PBMC with anti-CD22 CARs, and analysis of CAR surface expression on transduced PBMC.
3713098vl

[0119]      CAR-encoding sequences were synthesized using codon-optimization algorithms
(Mr. Gene GmBH, Regensburg, Germany) and subcloned into "destination" vectors as
described in (Zhao et al., J. Immunol., 183(9):5563-74 (2009)) encoding a first version
second generation CAR (CD28 transmembrane and intracellular T cell signaling domains and
CD3-zeta chain intracellular T cell signaling domain), second version second generation
CAR (CD8 transmembrane domain linked to CD137 and CD3-zeta T cell signaling domains),
or a third generation CAR (CD8 transmembrane domain linked to CD28, CD137, and CD3
zeta intracellular T cell signaling domains) sequences as shown in Table A.
3713098vl

                                 TABLE A
SEQ ID NO:            Antigen Further Components
                      Binding
                      Domain
HA22CAR-second        HA22    -CH2CH3
generation, version 1         - CD28 transmembrane domain
                              -CD28 and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling domains
HA22 CAR-third        HA22    -CH2CH3
generation                    -CD8 transmembrane domain
                              -CD28, CD137, and CD3Q intracellular T cell signaling
                              domains
HASH22 CAR-second     HA22    -short immunoglobulin constant domain sequence
generation, version 1         -CD28 transmembrane domain
                              -CD28 and CD3Q intracellular T cell signaling domains
HASH22 CAR-third      HA22    -short immunoglobulin constant domain sequence
generation                    -CD8 transmembrane domain
                              -CD 2 8, CD137, and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling
                              domains
BL22 CAR-second       BL22    -CH2CH3
generation                    - CD28 transmembrane domain
                              -CD28 and CD3Q intracellular T cell signaling domains
BL22 CAR-third        BL22    -CH2CH3
generation                    -CD8 transmembrane domain
                              -CD28, CD137, and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling
                              domains
HASH22 CAR-second     HA22    -short immunoglobulin constant domain sequence
generation, version 2         -CD8 transmembrane domain
                              -CD137 and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling
                              domains
m971 CAR-second       m971    - CD28 transmembrane domain
generation, version 1         -CD28 and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling domains
(SEQ ID NO: 23)
m971 CAR-third        m971    -CD8 transmembrane domain
generation (SEQ ID            -CD28, CD137, and CD3( intracellular T cell signaling
3713098vl

SEQ ID NO:                 Antigen      Further Components
                           Binding
                           Domain
NO: 24)                                 domains
m971 CAR-second            m971         -CD8 transmembrane domain
generation, version 2                   -CD137 and CD3Q intracellular T cell signaling
(SEQ ID NO: 22)                         domains
[0120]      Retroviral vector supernatants were created by transfecting 293GP cells with
plasmids encoding CAR retroviral vectors and the RD 114 envelope glycoprotein, collecting
culture supernatants (s/n) 48-72 hours later. The culture supernatants were frozen or used
immediately to transduce OKT3 and IL-2 activated human PBMC using the "on plate"
method for 2 consecutive days (culture of lymphocytes on plates coated with
RECTRONECTIN (Takara Bio Inc., Shiga, Japan) pre-exposed to dilutions of vector
containing s/n) as previously described in Y. Zhao et al., J. Immunol., 183: 5563 (2009).
Also used in this study was retroviral s/n containing a CD 19-specific CAR from a permanent
producer cell line (Kochenderfer et al., Blood, 116: 4099 (2010)).
[0121]      CAR expression on transduced T cells was determined by flow cytometry. To
directly measure the number of cells able to bind CD22 by virtue of the CH2CH3 domain,
goat anti-human IgG (H&L) (Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY) was used. To detect non
CH2CH3 encoding CARs, CD22-Fc (R&D Systems) followed by anti IgG-Fc PE (Jackson
ImmunoResearch, West Grove, PA). The HA22SH CAR expresses a short immunoglobulin
constant domain sequence instead of CH2CH3. The CD19-CAR was detected using Protein
L. Biotinylated protein L (50 ng/ul, Thermo Scientific, Waltham, MA) was bound, cells
washed, then detected with SA-PE (4 ug/mil, BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes, NJ). For
comparison, a CD19-CAR vector s/n was also evaluated. Flow cytometry experiments
confirmed CAR expression on transduced T cells. Second generation CARs demonstrated
increased surface expression levels as compared to third generation CARs as measured by
mean fluorescence intensity (MFI).
3713098vl

                                         EXAMPLE 2
[0122]     This example demonstrates the expression of CD22 and CD19 antigens on
leukemia cell lines.
[01231     Human leukemia cell lines (REH, SEM, NALM6, KOPN8, Daudi, Raji, and
K562) were evaluated for the expression level of CD19 and CD22 on the cell surface using
QUANTI-BRITE PE beads (BD Biosciences) and PE-labeled anti-CD19 and anti-CD22
antibody (Table 2). "Receptor Number Per Cell" indicates the approximate absolute number
of molecules per cell on each of the indicated cell lines. Data were calculated by determining
antibodies bound per cell (ABC) using the CELLQUEST software (BD) data analysis tools in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
                                           TABLE 2
                  Leukemia Cell Line             Receptor Number Per Cell
                  REH CD19                        15,100
                  SEM CD19                       50,800
                  NALM-6 CD19                    50,500
                  KOPN-8 CD19                    60,800
                  Daudi CD19                      15,000
                  Raji CD19                      50,000
                  K562 CD19                      <100
                  REH CD22                       7,000
                  SEM CD22                       7,000
                  NALM-6 CD22                    8,000
                  KOPN-8 CD22                     15,300
                  Daudi CD22                     8,000
                  Raji CD22                      60,800
                  K562 CD22                      <200
                                         EXAMPLE 3
[01241     This example demonstrates the lytic activity of cells expressing the second
generation (version 1) m971 CAR.
3713098vl

[0125]       To determine the lytic activity, leukemia cell lines (REH, SEM, NALM6,
KOPN8, Daudi, Raji, and K562) were           1Cr labeled and used as targets in cytotoxicity assays.
Cells were untransduced (mock) or were transduced with the second generation (version 1)
m971 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23), the anti-CD 19 CAR, or the second generation (version 1)
HASH22 CAR and were used as effector cells at various effector to target ratios in the
cytotoxicity assays. Percent lysis of the target cells was measured and is shown in Figure
 IA-IG.
[0126]       As shown in Figures 1A-IG, the cells transduced with the second generation
(version 1) m971 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23) lysed CD22-expressing leukemia cell lines REH,
SEM, NALM6, KOPN8, Daudi, and Raji, and did not lyse non-CD22 expressing cell line
K562. Cells transduced with the second generation (version 1) m971 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23)
demonstrated superior lytic ability as compared to cells transduced with the second
generation (version 1) HASH22 CAR.
[0127]        Seven BCP-ALL patient samples were analyzed for CD22 and CD19 expression.
A wide range of antigen expression was seen, as demonstrated by flow cytometric analysis.
Some patients showed strong positivity for both antigens while others had decreased CD22
staining.    In each case, CD22-specfic CARs conferred anti-leukemic lytic activity on third
party lymphocytes.
                                             EXAMPLE 4
[0128]       This example demonstrates the lytic activity of T cells expressing an m971 CAR.
[0129]       To determine if second or third generation CAR constructs provided increased
lytic activity, leukemia cell lines Raji (CD22 hi), NALM6-GL (CD22"), or K562 (CD22
negative) were    5 1 Cr labeled and used as targets in cytotoxicity assays. Effector cells were
human T cells that were untransduced (mock) or tranduced with m97 1-second generation,
version 1 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23) or m971-third generation CAR (SEQ ID NO: 24). Effector
cells were co-cultured with target cells at various effector to target (E:T) ratios. The results
are shown in Figures 2A-2C.
[0130]       As shown in Figures 2A-2C, second generation m971 CARs demonstrated
superior lytic activity as compared to third generation m971 CARs.
3713098vl

                                          EXAMPLE 5
[0131]       This example demonstrates the reactivity of T cells expressing an m971 CAR.
[0132]       T cells that were untransduced (mock) or transduced with one of the following
CARs: anti-CD19, m971-second generation version 1 (SEQ ID NO: 23), m971-third
generation (SEQ ID NO: 24), HASH22-second generation version 1, HASH22-second
generation version 2, or HASH22-third generation were co-cultured with leukemia cell lines
Raji (CD22hi), NALM6-GL (CD22"), or K562 (CD22-negative), and the amounts of
interferon (IFN)-y, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) a, and interleukin (IL)-2 secreted were
measured. The results are shown in Figures 3A-31.
[0133]       As shown in Figures 3A-31, cells transduced with m971-second generation,
version 1 CAR secreted higher amounts of IFN-7, IL-2, and TNFa in response to co-culture
with CD22 expressing cell lines as compared to third generation m971 CARs.
                                          EXAMPLE 6
[0134]       This example demonstrates that cells transduced with the m971 CAR retards the
progression of disease and lengthens the duration of survival in vivo as compared to an HA22
CAR.
[0135]       NOD scid gamma, immune-deficient (NSG) mice were injected on day 0 with 0.5
x  106 NALM6-GL (NAML6 transfected with Luciferase). On Day 3, mice were treated with
 I x 107 untransduced (mock) T cells or T cells transduced with HASH22-second generation,
version 1 CAR or m971-second generation, version 1 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23). Tumor burden
was measured in terms of bioluminescent signals per each mouse as photons/s/cm2 /sr with
bioluminescent imaging using the Xenogen IVIS instrument. Mice were injected
intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 3 mg D-luciferin (Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., Hopkinton, MA)
and 4 minutes post-injection, anesthetized mice were imaged with an exposure time of 30
seconds. LIVING IMAGE software was used to analyze the bioluminescent signals per each
mouse as photons/s/cm 2/sr on days 3, 7, and 15. Signal intensity was plotted over time, and
the results are shown in Figure 4A.
[0136]       As shown in Figure 4A, all mice had equivalent disease on Day 3. Mice treated
with T cells transduced with m971-second generation, version 1 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23)
3713098vl

reduced the tumor burden in mice as compared to mice treated with control cells or cells
transduced with HA22 CAR.
[0137]      Survival of the mice was measured for 50 days, survival statistics were calculated
using Log-rank (Mantel-Cox) analysis, and the survival results are shown in Figure 4B. As
shown in Figure 4B, mice treated with T cells transduced with m971-second generation,
version 1 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 23) demonstrated increased survival as compared to mice
treated with control cells transduced with IHA22 CAR.
[0138]      To determine if treatment failure was due to antigenic loss, mice were euthanized
due to disease burden according to institutional protocol, and spleens analyzed by flow
cytometry. Prior to therapy, high levels of CAR expression were seen on HASH-28z and
m971-28z transduced T cells, and the NALM6-GL cells expressed both CD19 and CD22.
Upon sacrifice, spleens were analyzed first for human CD45 and GFP expression. Gated
GFP positive cells represent tumor, and upon further analysis this gate population continued
to express GFP. However, any CD45 positive and GFP negative cells remaining no longer
expressed the anti-CD22 CAR. This indicates that the leukemia continued to express CD22
and that CAR T cells did not persist at the time of sacrifice. When the experiment was
repeated and mice sacrificed on day 12, when therapeutic T cells were still having an effect,
they could readily be detected in the blood, spleen, and bone marrow. The m971-28z (second
generation, version 1) CAR showed a much greater ability to infiltrate the bone marrow.
                                          EXAMPLE 7
[0139]      This example demonstrates a dose response curve for the adoptive transfer of cells
expressing an m971 CAR.
                                                                      6 NALM6-GL cells on
[0140]      NSG (immunodeficient) mice were injected with 0.5     x10
day 0. On day 3, the animals were imaged using luciferin substrate to confirm the presence
of leukemia. On day 3, leukemia-bearing mice were injected intravenously (i.v.) with
untransduced (mock) T cells or 15 x 106, 5 x 106, 1 x 106, or I x 10' T cells transduced with a
nucleotide sequence encoding a m971-second generation, version 2 CAR (SEQ ID NO: 22).
The CAR transduction efficiency of the transduced T-cells was    9 0 %. T cells were stimulated
with anti-CD3/CD28 beads (1:1), cultured in 40 units/ml interleukin-2, and injected into the
mice 10 days after the initial stimulation. Mice were imaged again on day 5 and day 8. The
3713098vl

results are shown in Figures 5 and 6. A change in shading from grey to white indicates
increased tumor burden in Figure 5. In Figure 6, a decrease in photons indicates a decrease in
tumor burden. As shown in Figures 5 and 6, complete elimination of the leukemia was seen
with the highest dose level by day 8.
[0141]       All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were
individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in
its entirety herein.
[0142]       The use of the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and "at least one" and similar
referents in the context of describing the invention (especially in the context of the following
claims) are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise
indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of the term "at least one"
followed by a list of one or more items (for example, "at least one of A and B") is to be
construed to mean one item selected from the listed items (A or B) or any combination of two
or more of the listed items (A and B), unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly
contradicted by context. The terms "comprising," "having," "including," and "containing"
are to be construed as open-ended terms (i.e., meaning "including, but not limited to,") unless
otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range,
unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into the
specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be
performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly
contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such
as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a
limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the
specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential to the
practice of the invention.
[0143]       Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the best
mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred
embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
3713098vl

foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as
appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as
specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
3713098vl

CLAIM(S):
          1. A chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising an antigen binding domain
comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-6, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular T cell signaling
domain.
          2. The CAR according to claim 1, wherein the antigen binding domain comprises a
light chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 7.
          3. The CAR according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the antigen binding domain
comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ
ID NO: 8.
          4. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the antigen binding domain
comprises an amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 9.
          5. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the antigen binding domain
comprises a linker comprising SEQ ID NO: 11.
          6. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-5, further comprising a leader sequence
comprising SEQ ID NO: 10.
          7. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein the transmembrane domain
comprises i) CD8 and/or ii) CD28.
          8. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the transmembrane domain
comprises a CD8 amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 12 or 18 and/or a CD28
amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 15.
          9. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein the intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprises one or more of i) CD28, ii) CD137, and iii) CD3 zeta.
3713098vl

          10. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein the intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprises a CD28 amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 16 or 19.
          11. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-10, wherein the intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprises a CD 137 amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 13 or
20.
          12. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-11, wherein the intracellular T cell
signaling domain comprises a CD3 zeta amino acid sequence comprising SEQ ID NO: 14, 17
or 21.
          13. The CAR according to any one of claims 1-12 comprising an amino acid
sequence comprising any one of SEQ ID NOs: 22-24.
          14. A nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding the CAR according to
any one of claims 1-13.
          15. The nucleic acid according to claim 14, comprising a nucleotide sequence
comprising SEQ ID NO: 25.
          16. The nucleic acid according to claim 15, further comprising a nucleotide sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 26-28.
          17. A recombinant expression vector comprising the nucleic acid of any one of
claims 14-16.
          18. An isolated host cell comprising the recombinant expression vector of claim 17.
          19. A population of cells comprising at least one host cell of claim 18.
3713098vl

          20. An antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, which specifically binds to a
CAR according to any one of claims 1-13.
          21. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the CAR of any one of claims 1-13,
the nucleic acid of any one of claims 14-16, the recombinant expression vector of claim 17,
the host cell of claim 18, the population of cells of claim 19, or the antibody, or antigen
binding portion thereof, of claim 20, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
          22. A method of detecting the presence of cancer in a mammal, comprising:
          (a)    contacting a sample comprising one or more cells from the mammal with the
CAR of any one of claims 1-13, the nucleic acid of any one of claims 14-16, the recombinant
expression vector of claim 17, the host cell of claim 18, the population of cells of claim 19,
the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, of claim 20, or the pharmaceutical
composition of claim 21, thereby forming a complex, and
          (b)    detecting the complex, wherein detection of the complex is indicative of the
presence of cancer in the mammal.
          23. The CAR of any one of claims 1-13, the nucleic acid of any one of claims 14-16,
the recombinant expression vector of claim 17, the host cell of claim 18, the population of
cells of claim 19, the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, of claim 20, or the
pharmaceutical composition of claim 21 for use in the treatment or prevention of cancer.
3713098vl

                                                                                                                               <U+276D><U+276C><U+2769><U+2768><U+2773>
                                                                                            <U+2789><U+2788><U+2787>                                                                         <U+2730><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D><U+272C><U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                               q
                                                                          <U+2786><U+2785> <U+2784>                                                                                                           <U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                                                                   <U+2772><U+2771>                                                               <U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                       <U+2783>
                                                                                       <U+2782><U+2781>            <U+2780><U+277F>                                                             <U+272A>             <U+2723><U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718><U+2717>
                                                                                                                               
                                                                         <U+277E><U+277D><U+277C><U+277B>                                                                       <U+2727> <U+2726><U+2725><U+2724>
                                                                                       <U+277A><U+2779>            <U+2778>            <U+276F><U+275A><U+2759>|                             <U+271A><U+2719>                         <U+2716>    <U+2715>     <U+2714><U+2713>
       <U+2720><U+271F><U+2701><U+2706><U+271E><U+2701><U+2701><U+271D><U+2706> <U+260E>                                                                                                             <U+274A><U+25D7>                                                             <U+2712><U+2711>
                <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                       
                                                                                                                               <U+25BC><U+25B2>       P<U+2756><U+25C6>                                                   <U+270F><U+270E>    <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2751><U+274F>
                                         
                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                               <U+274D><U+25CF>                                                              <U+270C>   <U+261E><U+261B>
                                         
                                                                                                                               <U+274A><U+2749>
                                                                                <U+2777><U+2776><U+2469><U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>   <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                               <U+2748><U+2747>
 <U+261E><U+261B>
 <U+2721>                             
                                                                                                <U+2467><U+2466><U+2465>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2746><U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E><U+271D><U+2706>
                                         <U+2663>                                                                                                                
                                                                                 <U+2464><U+2463><U+2462>                                                                        <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                       q<U+2460>
                                                                            <U+2663><U+2665>
                                                                             <U+2666> <U+2707>
                                                                               <U+2660><U+2767>           <U+2766><U+2708><U+2709>
                                                                                              <U+2765><U+2710>t
                                                                                                <U+2764><U+2763>       <U+2762><U+2761>
                                                                                                          sr<U+275E>             <U+2743><U+2742><U+2741>
                                                           
                                                                                                                <U+2740><U+273F><U+2715>
                                                                                                                                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                     
                
                                                                                                                                   
                     
                    <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+279A><U+27BE><U+27BD><U+27BC><U+27BB> <U+276E><U+2703><U+27AD><U+2752><U+27A8> <U+2750><U+27A7><U+27A6><U+27A5> <U+2703><U+27B1><U+27A4><U+27A2> <U+27AE><U+27AC><U+27B7><U+27B4><U+2798> <U+279C><U+27B9><U+27A1> <U+27A0><U+2770>
                       <U+2752>
                          <U+27B1>
                               <U+2770><U+276E>
                                  <U+2752><U+2750><U+2703><U+27B1>
       <U+27AE> <U+27AC> <U+27B7><U+27B4><U+2798>                                             <U+27B9><U+27B6>
              <U+27AA><U+279A><U+27BE><U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                    <U+27B9>                <U+27AF>                                  <U+27B6><U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB><U+27A9> <U+2715>
                                <U+27BC><U+27BB>
                                                                    <U+27BA><U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+27B8><U+27B5><U+27B3><U+27BA><U+27B2>
                                     <U+27B5><U+27B3><U+27B2><U+27AF>                                                                                                     <U+273E><U+273D>
                                                           <U+27AD><U+27AB>                                                                      <U+2734>          <U+273C>
                                                                    <U+27A9><U+27A8>
                                             <U+27A4><U+27A2>                     <U+27A1>
       <U+27A7> <U+27A6><U+27A5>
                                                                    <U+279C>
       <U+27A0>                                                   <U+279E><U+279D>                                                                      <U+273B><U+273A>       <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279F><U+279E>
                     <U+279F>                   <U+279B><U+2799><U+2195>                        <U+2793>                                                                         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                            <U+2194><U+27A3><U+2192>
                                               <U+2794>
                                                           <U+2792><U+2791>                                                                      <U+2736><U+2735>
                                                                                           <U+2799>                                          <U+279B>                               <U+2799><U+2704><U+2195>       <U+279D><U+279C><U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2194><U+27A3>
                     <U+2790><U+276A> <U+278F><U+278E> <U+278D>                                    <U+278C>                                                                  <U+2734><U+2733>
                                                                            <U+275D><U+275C><U+275B><U+2775>                     <U+2774><U+276B><U+276A>
                                                                    <U+278B><U+278A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732><U+2731>
<removed-date>                      <removed-apn>

                                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+271D><U+271E>               <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734>
                                      <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
                                   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
              <U+2702><U+2704>
                       <U+271F><U+2720>
                   <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>            <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273F>
                                        <U+2744><U+2736><U+2737><U+2737><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747>
                   <U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713>
                   <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718>                          <U+2751> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                                                   P <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773>
                                                   <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D> <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+276A><U+276A><U+2773>
                   <U+271C><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B>
                   <U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713>
                        <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>
              <U+260E><U+2706>
                                     <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>
                                   <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> <U+274F>

                                                 <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772>
<removed-date>
                   <U+2701>    <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>      <U+2736><U+2737>       <U+2712><U+2773><U+2715><U+2715> <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>   <U+2712><U+2665>      <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464><U+2465>
                         <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>                   <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>              <U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>     <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>       <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E>
                                     <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>
                                     <U+2741><U+273D><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>
                                     <U+2745> <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748>
                                         <U+2749>
              <U+2702><U+2704>                        <U+274A><U+274B>                  <U+2666>
                  <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>    <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+271B>      <U+25CF><U+274D><U+2747>     <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764>        <U+2663>qr      <U+2776><U+2777><U+2733><U+2778>
              <U+271E>                       <U+274F>
                                     <U+2751><U+25CF><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6>                 s t<U+2759><U+2709>
              <U+271F><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>                 <U+2756>                    <U+2756>
              <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>                  P<U+275A> <U+25D7>|<U+2759>                <U+2708> <U+2707><U+2460>
                                                           <U+275A>
                                               <U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767> <U+2660>

                                                         <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B>
<removed-date>
               <U+2701>
                    <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>         <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>
                                     <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744> <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+2745><U+274B><U+2747><U+25CF><U+274D>
                                     <U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A>
                    <U+2702><U+2720><U+2721><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B>
                    <U+2702><U+2704><U+2721><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2712> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2711>
              <U+271A><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
                    <U+2713><U+2714><U+271C><U+2716><U+2713><U+2717><U+2718><U+2722>
                    <U+2713><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2713><U+2717><U+2718><U+2726>
                                         <U+276F>        <U+2772><U+2773>           <U+2768><U+2769>      <U+2461><U+270F>        <U+2462><U+2463>
                                                       <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B>
               <U+2727><U+2605>
                           <U+2729><U+272A><U+272A>
                      <U+272B>     <U+272C><U+272D>                                                        <U+2464> <U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468>
                     <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>                                    <U+2774><U+2775>                        <U+2469><U+2776><U+2777> <U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+277B> <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D>
                     <U+2734><U+2733>     <U+2731><U+2732>                               <U+2761><U+2762><U+2762> <U+2763>
                                                           <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E>
                            <U+2735><U+2736>                                                        <U+277E><U+277F> <U+2465><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782> <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D>
                            <U+2737><U+2738>
                                                              <U+2764><U+2710>
                             <U+2736>                               <U+2765>
                                                             <U+2766><U+2767><U+2660> <U+2665> <U+2666>                     <U+2783>
                                 <U+272D>           <U+2771><U+2732>        <U+2737><U+272D>         <U+2663><U+2732>        <U+2784><U+2785>          <U+2786><U+272D>
                                                          qrs
                                                   t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707> <U+2460>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>                        <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-date>
                                  <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                <U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+261E>
              <U+271E>           <U+261B>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+261E><U+2711>
                 <U+270C><U+2711><U+270C><U+270D>                         <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                  <U+2713>
              <U+2712> <U+2712> <U+2712> <U+2712> <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2715>
              <U+2716>                                   <U+2717>
              <U+2718>                                   <U+2715>
                                                  <U+2713>
              <U+2719>                                   <U+271A>     <U+271B>
              <U+271C>                                     <U+2722>    <U+2723>
                                                  <U+2724>
                                                  <U+2726> <U+2725>
              <U+270C>                                     <U+2727>
              <U+2718>                                         <U+2605>
              <U+2727>                                   <U+2729>
                                                  <U+2729>
              <U+272A>
              <U+272B>                                   <U+272C>
              <U+272D>
              <U+272E>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                  <U+2715>
              <U+2729>     <U+2717>
                    <U+2726>     <U+2730>           <U+272C>   <U+2714>   <U+2724>
              <U+2729>           <U+2731>           <U+2731>   <U+2731>   <U+2731>
              <U+2731>     <U+2731>     <U+272A>           <U+272A>   <U+270F>   <U+272A>
              <U+270F>     <U+272A>
                              <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734><U+2736><U+2737>

                                                 714144_ST25
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE
                      SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
              <120>   M971 CHIMERIC ANTIGEN RECEPTORS
              <130>   714144
<removed-apn>
              <150>   US 61/717,960
              <151>   2012-10-24
              <160>   33
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   1
              Gly Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn Ser Ala Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210>   2
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   2
              Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys Trp Tyr Asn
              1               5
              <210>   3
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
                                                    Page 1

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <400>   3
              Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile
              1               5                   10
              <210>   4
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   4
              Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   5
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   5
              Ala Ala Ser
              1
              <210>   6
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   6
              Gln Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro Gln Thr Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   7
              <211>   107
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                  Page 2

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   7
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Ala Ala Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
                          100                 105
              <210>   8
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   8
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Ile Ser Gly Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 3

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Ser Ala Ala Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Ser Pro Ser Arg Gly Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Leu Gly Arg Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys Trp Tyr Asn Asp Tyr Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Ser Val Lys Ser Arg Ile Thr Ile Asn Pro Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Phe Ser Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Val Thr Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115                 120
              <210>   9
              <211>   236
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   9
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Ile Ser Gly Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Ala Ala Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Ser Pro Ser Arg Gly Leu Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Leu Gly Arg Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys Trp Tyr Asn Asp Tyr Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Ser Val Lys Ser Arg Ile Thr Ile Asn Pro Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 4

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Gln Phe Ser Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Val Thr Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys
              225                 230                 235
              <210>   10
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   10
                                                  Page 5

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Met Leu Leu Leu Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Leu Cys Glu Leu Pro His Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Phe Leu Leu Ile Pro
                          20
              <210>   11
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   11
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   12
              <211>   69
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   12
              Thr Thr Thr Pro Ala Pro Arg Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu Arg Pro Glu Ala Cys Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ala Val His Thr Arg Gly Leu Asp Phe Ala Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Ala Pro Leu Ala Gly Thr Cys Gly Val Leu Leu Leu Ser Leu Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Thr Leu Tyr Cys
              65
                                                  Page 6

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <210>   13
              <211>   42
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   13
<removed-apn>
              Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys Leu Leu Tyr Ile Phe Lys Gln Pro Phe Met
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr Gln Glu Glu Asp Gly Cys Ser Cys Arg Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Cys Glu Leu
                      35                  40
              <210>   14
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   14
              Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Lys Gln Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 7

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   15
<removed-apn>
              <211>   65
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   15
              Val Met Tyr Pro Pro Pro Tyr Leu Asp Asn Glu Lys Ser Asn Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ile Ile His Val Lys Gly Lys His Leu Cys Pro Ser Pro Leu Phe Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Pro Ser Lys Pro Phe Trp Val Leu Val Val Val Gly Gly Val Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Cys Tyr Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Val Ala Phe Ile Ile Phe Trp Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg
              65
              <210>   16
              <211>   40
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   16
              Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His Ser Asp Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 8

                                                 714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys His Tyr Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser
                      35                  40
              <210>   17
<removed-apn>
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   17
              Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Gln Gln Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   18
              <211>   84
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                  Page 9

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   18
              Phe Val Pro Val Phe Leu Pro Ala Lys Pro Thr Thr Thr Pro Ala Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala Ser Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Pro Glu Ala Cys Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly Gly Ala Val His Thr Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Leu Asp Phe Ala Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile Trp Ala Pro Leu Ala Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Cys Gly Val Leu Leu Leu Ser Leu Val Ile Thr Leu Tyr Cys Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Arg Asn Arg
              <210>   19
              <211>   40
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   19
              Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His Ser Asp Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys His Tyr Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser
                      35                  40
              <210>   20
              <211>   47
                                                  Page 10

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   20
              Arg Phe Ser Val Val Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys Leu Leu Tyr Ile Phe
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Gln Pro Phe Met Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr Gln Glu Glu Asp Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Cys Ser Cys Arg Phe Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Cys Glu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              <210>   21
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   21
              Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Gln Gln Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 11

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   22
              <211>   484
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   22
              Met Leu Leu Leu Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Leu Cys Glu Leu Pro His Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Phe Leu Leu Ile Pro Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Gln Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Ile Ser Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn Ser Ala Ala Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Ser Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Leu Gly Arg Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Tyr Asn Asp Tyr Ala Val Ser Val Lys Ser Arg Ile Thr Ile Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Val Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
                                                  Page 12

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ala Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro Gln Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Lys Ala Ala Ala Thr Thr Thr Pro Ala Pro Arg Pro Pro Thr Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala Ser Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu Arg Pro Glu Ala Cys
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly Gly Ala Val His Thr Arg Gly Leu Asp Phe Ala
                  290                 295                 300
              Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile Trp Ala Pro Leu Ala Gly Thr Cys Gly Val Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Leu Ser Leu Val Ile Thr Leu Tyr Cys Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Leu Leu Tyr Ile Phe Lys Gln Pro Phe Met Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
                                                  Page 13

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Gln Glu Glu Asp Gly Cys Ser Cys Arg Phe Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Cys Glu Leu Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Lys Gln Gly Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg
<removed-apn>
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Arg Glu Glu Tyr Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Gly Gly Lys Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              Glu Leu Gln Lys Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys Gly Glu Arg Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly
                  450                 455                 460
              Leu Ser Thr Ala Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Leu Pro Pro Arg
              <210>   23
              <211>   480
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   23
              Met Leu Leu Leu Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Leu Cys Glu Leu Pro His Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Phe Leu Leu Ile Pro Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Gly
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 14

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Gln Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Ile Ser Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn Ser Ala Ala Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Ser
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Pro Ser Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Leu Gly Arg Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Tyr Asn Asp Tyr Ala Val Ser Val Lys Ser Arg Ile Thr Ile Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Val Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ala Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 15

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro Gln Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Lys Ala Ala Ala Ile Glu Val Met Tyr Pro Pro Pro Tyr Leu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Asn Glu Lys Ser Asn Gly Thr Ile Ile His Val Lys Gly Lys His Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Cys Pro Ser Pro Leu Phe Pro Gly Pro Ser Lys Pro Phe Trp Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Val Val Gly Gly Val Leu Ala Cys Tyr Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ala Phe Ile Ile Phe Trp Val Arg Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu His
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Asp Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg Lys
                          340                 345                 350
              His Tyr Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Gln Gln Gly
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg
                      435                 440                 445
                                                  Page 16

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
              465                 470                 475                 480
<removed-apn>
              <210>   24
              <211>   544
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400>   24
              Met Leu Leu Leu Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Leu Cys Glu Leu Pro His Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Phe Leu Leu Ile Pro Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Gln Ser Gly Pro Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Gln Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Ile Ser Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Ser Val Ser Ser Asn Ser Ala Ala Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Ser Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Leu Gly Arg Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Ser Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Tyr Asn Asp Tyr Ala Val Ser Val Lys Ser Arg Ile Thr Ile Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Val Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Glu Val Thr Gly Asp
                      115                 120                 125
                                                  Page 17

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Leu Glu Asp Ala Phe Asp Ile Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala
<removed-apn>
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Gln Thr Ile Trp Ser Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Arg Pro Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Ala Pro Asn Leu Leu Ile Tyr Ala Ala Ser Ser Leu Gln Ser Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Ala Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Ser Tyr Ser Ile Pro Gln Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Lys Ala Ala Ala Phe Val Pro Val Phe Leu Pro Ala Lys Pro Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Thr Pro Ala Pro Arg Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Pro Thr Ile Ala Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu Arg Pro Glu Ala Cys Arg Pro Ala Ala Gly Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Ala Val His Thr Arg Gly Leu Asp Phe Ala Cys Asp Ile Tyr Ile Trp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ala Pro Leu Ala Gly Thr Cys Gly Val Leu Leu Leu Ser Leu Val Ile
                              325                 330                 335
                                                  Page 18

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Tyr Cys Asn His Arg Asn Arg Ser Lys Arg Ser Arg Leu Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              His Ser Asp Tyr Met Asn Met Thr Pro Arg Arg Pro Gly Pro Thr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys His Tyr Gln Pro Tyr Ala Pro Pro Arg Asp Phe Ala Ala Tyr Arg
<removed-apn>
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Arg Phe Ser Val Val Lys Arg Gly Arg Lys Lys Leu Leu Tyr Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe Lys Gln Pro Phe Met Arg Pro Val Gln Thr Thr Gln Glu Glu Asp
                              405                 410                 415
              Gly Cys Ser Cys Arg Phe Pro Glu Glu Glu Glu Gly Gly Cys Glu Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Arg Val Lys Phe Ser Arg Ser Ala Asp Ala Pro Ala Tyr Gln Gln Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Gln Asn Gln Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Asn Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Glu Tyr
                  450                 455                 460
              Asp Val Leu Asp Lys Arg Arg Gly Arg Asp Pro Glu Met Gly Gly Lys
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro Arg Arg Lys Asn Pro Gln Glu Gly Leu Tyr Asn Glu Leu Gln Lys
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Lys Met Ala Glu Ala Tyr Ser Glu Ile Gly Met Lys Gly Glu Arg
                          500                 505                 510
              Arg Arg Gly Lys Gly His Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gln Gly Leu Ser Thr Ala
                      515                 520                 525
              Thr Lys Asp Thr Tyr Asp Ala Leu His Met Gln Ala Leu Pro Pro Arg
                  530                 535                 540
                                                  Page 19

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <210>   25
              <211>   774
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 25
<removed-apn>
              atgcttctgc tcgtgacaag cctgctgctg tgcgagctgc cccaccctgc ctttctgctg    60
              atccctcagg tgcagctgca gcagtctggc cctggcctcg tgaagcctag ccagaccctg   120
              agcctgacct gtgccatcag cggcgatagc gtgtccagca atagcgccgc ctggaactgg   180
              atcagacaga gccctagcag aggcctggaa tggctgggcc ggacctacta ccggtccaag   240
              tggtacaacg actacgccgt gtccgtgaag tcccggatca ccatcaaccc cgacaccagc   300
              aagaaccagt tctccctgca gctgaacagc gtgacccccg aggataccgc cgtgtactac   360
              tgcgccagag aagtgaccgg cgacctggaa gatgccttcg acatctgggg ccagggcaca   420
              atggtcaccg tgtctagcgg aggcggcgga agcgacatcc agatgacaca gagccccagc   480
              tccctgagcg ccagcgtggg agacagagtg accatcacct gtcgggccag ccagaccatc   540
              tggtcctacc tgaactggta tcagcagcgg cctggcaagg cccccaacct gctgatctat   600
              gccgccagct cactgcagag cggcgtgccc agcagatttt ccggcagagg cagcggcacc   660
              gacttcaccc tgacaatcag ttccctgcag gccgaggact tcgccaccta ctactgccag   720
              cagagctaca gcatccccca gaccttcggc caggggacca agctggaaat caaa         774
              <210>   26
              <211>   672
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 26
              accacgacgc cagcgccgcg accaccaaca ccggcgccca ccatcgcgtc gcagcccctg    60
              tccctgcgcc cagaggcgtg ccggccagcg gcggggggcg cagtgcacac gagggggctg   120
              gacttcgcct gtgatatcta catctgggcg cccttggccg ggacttgtgg ggtccttctc   180
              ctgtcactgg ttatcaccct ttactgcaaa cggggcagaa agaaactcct gtatatattc   240
                                                  Page 20

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              aaacaaccat ttatgagacc agtacaaact actcaagagg aagatggctg tagctgccga   300
              tttccagaag aagaagaagg aggatgtgaa ctgagagtga agttcagcag gagcgcagac   360
              gcccccgcgt acaagcaggg ccagaaccag ctctataacg agctcaatct aggacgaaga   420
              gaggagtacg atgttttgga caagagacgt ggccgggacc ctgagatggg gggaaagccg   480
<removed-apn>
              agaaggaaga accctcagga aggcctgtac aatgaactgc agaaagataa gatggcggag   540
              gcctacagtg agattgggat gaaaggcgag cgccggaggg gcaaggggca cgatggcctt   600
              taccagggtc tcagtacagc caccaaggac acctacgacg cccttcacat gcaggccctg   660
              ccccctcgct aa                                                       672
              <210>   27
              <211>   654
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 27
              gttatgtatc ctcctcctta cctagacaat gagaagagca atggaaccat tatccatgtg    60
              aaagggaaac acctttgtcc aagtccccta tttcccggac cttctaagcc cttttgggtg   120
              ctggtggtgg ttggtggagt cctggcttgc tatagcttgc tagtaacagt ggcctttatt   180
              attttctggg tgaggagtaa gaggagcagg ctcctgcaca gtgactacat gaacatgact   240
              ccccgccgcc ccgggcccac ccgcaagcat taccagccct atgccccacc acgcgacttc   300
              gcagcctatc gctccagagt gaagttcagc aggagcgcag acgcccccgc gtaccagcag   360
              ggccagaacc agctctataa cgagctcaat ctaggacgaa gagaggagta cgatgttttg   420
              gacaagagac gtggccggga ccctgagatg gggggaaagc cgagaaggaa gaaccctcag   480
              gaaggcctgt acaatgaact gcagaaagat aagatggcgg aggcctacag tgagattggg   540
              atgaaaggcg agcgccggag gggcaagggg cacgatggcc tttaccaggg tctcagtaca   600
              gccaccaagg acacctacga cgcccttcac atgcaggccc tgccccctcg ctaa         654
              <210>   28
              <211>   852
                                                  Page 21

                                                714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 28
              ttcgtgccgg tcttcctgcc agcgaagccc accacgacgc cagcgccgcg accaccaaca    60
<removed-apn>
              ccggcgccca ccatcgcgtc gcagcccctg tccctgcgcc cagaggcgtg ccggccagcg   120
              gcggggggcg cagtgcacac gagggggctg gacttcgcct gtgatatcta catctgggcg   180
              cccttggccg ggacttgtgg ggtccttctc ctgtcactgg ttatcaccct ttactgcaac   240
              cacaggaaca ggagtaagag gagcaggctc ctgcacagtg actacatgaa catgactccc   300
              cgccgccccg ggcccacccg caagcattac cagccctatg ccccaccacg cgacttcgca   360
              gcctatcgct cccgtttctc tgttgttaaa cggggcagaa agaagctcct gtatatattc   420
              aaacaaccat ttatgagacc agtacaaact actcaagagg aagatggctg tagctgccga   480
              tttccagaag aagaagaagg aggatgtgaa ctgagagtga agttcagcag gagcgcagac   540
              gcccccgcgt accagcaggg ccagaaccag ctctataacg agctcaatct aggacgaaga   600
              gaggagtacg atgttttgga caagagacgt ggccgggacc ctgagatggg gggaaagccg   660
              agaaggaaga accctcagga aggcctgtac aatgaactgc agaaagataa gatggcggag   720
              gcctacagtg agattgggat gaaaggcgag cgccggaggg gcaaggggca cgatggcctt   780
              taccagggtc tcagtacagc caccaaggac acctacgacg cccttcacat gcaggccctg   840
              ccccctcgct aa                                                       852
              <210>   29
              <211>   6
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 29
              ctcgag                                                                6
              <210>   30
              <211>   8
                                                  Page 22

                                            714144_ST25
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 30
              gcggccgc                                     8
<removed-apn>
              <210>   31
              <211>   6
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 31
              ggatcc                                       6
              <210>   32
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 32
              taaggatccg ataaaataa                        19
              <210>   33
              <211>   15
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic
              <400> 33
              ctaaggatcc gataa                            15
                                              Page 23

