                                          ABSTRACT
IVIG replacement compounds are derived from recombinant and/or biochemical creation of
immunologically active biomimetic(s). These replacement compounds are then screened in vitro
to assess each replacements compound's efficiency at modulating immune function. Particular
replacement compounds are selected for further in vivo validation and dosage/administration
optimization. Finally, the replacement compounds are used to treat a wide range of diseases,
including inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.

                                           AUSTRALIA
                                         PatentsAct 1990
                            ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                      STANDARD PATENT
Invention title:       IMMUNOGLOBULIN CONSTANT REGION Fe RECEPTOR
                       BINDING AGENTS BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
This application is a divisional ofAustralian Patent Application No <removed-apn> which is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013263716 which in turn is a divisional of
Australian Patent Application No 2008259946 which is the Australian national phase entry of
PCT/2008/065428, which claims priority to US provisional patent application No's 60/941,644,
61/015,127 and 61/015,547 filed 1 June 2007, 19 December 2007 and 20 December 2007,
respectively. Each of these applications is herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:
                                                 1.

    IMMUNOGLOBULIN CONSTANT REGION Fe RECEPTOR BINDING AGENTS
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
     [0001]     This invention relates generally to the fields of immunology, inflammation, and
tumor immunology. More specifically, the present invention relates to biologically active
biomimetic molecules comprising immunoglobulin Fc domains, compositions comprising such
biomimetics, and methods of using such biomimetics.
     [0002]     The invention also relates to the treatment and prophylaxis of pathological
conditions mediated by monocyte-derived cells, and more particularly to the use of stabilized
functional portions of IgG Fc fragments for such treatment and prophylaxis.
Description of the Background Art
     [0003]     Immune globulin products from human plasma have been used since the early
 1950's to treat immune deficiency disorders and more recently, and more commonly, for
autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
     [0004]     Initially, immune globulin products were administered by intramuscular injection.
More recently, intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) has been used and was initially shown to be
effective in treatment of the autoimmune disease idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)
(Imbach P, Barandun S, d'Apuzzo V, et al: High-dose intravenous gammaglobulin for idiopathic
thrombocytopenic purpura in childhood. Lancet 1981 Jun 6; 1(8232): 1228-31). Human IVIG
(referred to herein as "hIVIG") is a formulation of sterile, purified immunoglobulin G (IgG)
products manufactured from pooled human plasma that typically contains more than 95%
unmodified IgG, with only small and variable amounts of immunoglobulin A (IgA) or
immunoglobulin M (IgM) (see, for example, Rutter A, Luger TA: High-dose intravenous
immunoglobulins: an approach to treat severe immune-mediated and autoimmune diseases of the
skin. J Am Acad Dermatol 2001 Jun; 44(6): 1010-24). Today the single most common clinical
use of hIVIG is in the treatment of ITP.
     [0005]     While hIVIG has been an effective clinical treatment, there are several
shortcomings to hIVIG formulations, including the potential for inadequate sterility, the presence
of impurities, lack of availability, and lot-to-lot variation. In particular hIVIG preparations can
                                                  2.

vary greatly in their immunoglobulin A (IgA) content which can be of concern because IgA can
cause allergic and anaphylactic reactions in IgA-deficient recipients.
     [0006]     In view of the negative aspects of hIVIG, there exists a need for an improved
means of treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
     [0007]     In addition, multiple pathological conditions of a wide variety of types are
mediated by cells derived from monocytes. A simple therapeutic and/or prophylactic agent for
use in many, if not all, such conditions would be invaluable.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
     [0008]     The immuno-regulatory properties of IVIG reside in the Fc domain of IgG
molecules. For example, in murine models of ITP, both unmodified IVIG and the Fc fragment
alone demonstrate therapeutic efficacy in restoring platelet counts, while isolated IVIG Fab
fragments are not therapeutic (Samuelsson, A., Towers, T.L. & Ravetch, J.V. Anti-inflammatory
Activity of IVIG Mediated Through the Inhibitory Fc Receptor. Science 291, 484-486 (2001)).
Moreover Fc, but not Fab fragments of IVIG, is also therapeutically effective in the treatment of
both childhood and adult idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (Follea, G. et al. Intravenous
plasmin-treated gammaglobulin therapy in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Nouv Rev Fr
Hematol 27, 5-10 (1985); Solal-Celigny, P., Bernard, J., Herrera, A. & Biovin, P. Treatment of
adult autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura with high-dose intravenous plasmin-cleaved
gammaglobulins. Scand J Haematol 31, 39-44 (1983); Debre, M. & Bonnet, M.-C. Infusion of
Gcgamma fragments for treatment of children with acute immune thrombocytopenic purpura.
Lancet 342, 945-49 (1993); Burdach, S.E., Evers, K. & Geurson, R. Treatment of acute
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura of childhood with intravenous immunoglobulin G:
Comparative efficacy of 7S and 5S preparations. J Pediatr 109, 770-775 (1986)).
     [0009]     The therapeutic effect of IVIG is initially mediated through the Fc gamma
receptor (FcyR) and relies on Dendritic Cell (DC)-macrophage cross-talk for its long term
tolerogenic effects. FcyRIIIa plays a requisite role in the initiator phase and FcyRIIb is required
for the effector phase in murine models of ITP (Samuelsson, A., Towers, T.L. & Ravetch, J.V.
Anti-inflammatory Activity of IVIG Mediated Through the Inhibitory Fc Receptor. Science 291,
484-486 (2001); Siragam, V. et al. Intravenous immunoglobulin ameliorates ITP via activating
Fc[gamma] receptors on dendritic cells. Nat Med 12, 688 (2006)). Similarly, human studies
demonstrate that anti-Fcy receptor antibodies are effective in the treatment of refractory ITP
                                                 3.

(Clarkson, S. et al. Treatment of refractory immune thrombocytopenic purpura with an anti-Fc
gamma-receptor antibody. N Engl J Med 314, 1236-1239 (1986)). Importantly, long term
tolerogenic effects are mediated by cell-cell interactions, as adoptive transfer of IVIG-treated
DCs is effective in treating murine models of ITP (Siragam, V. et al. Intravenous
immunoglobulin ameliorates ITP via activating Fc[gamma] receptors on dendritic cells. Nat Med
 12, 688 (2006)).
     [0010]     The immunomodulatory effects of IVIG require aggregation of the FcyR.
Aggregation of FcyR is mediated by IgG dimers present in IVIG (5-15% of the total IVIG)
(Bleeker, W.K. et al. Vasoactive side effects of intravenous immunoglobulin preparations in a rat
model and their treatment with recombinant platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase. Blood 95,
 1856-1861 (2000)). For example, in a murine model of ITP, treatment with IVIG with a high
content of "dimers" (dimers of whole immunoglobulin molecules) enhanced platelet counts
while IVIG "monomers" (whole immunoglobulin molecules) were not effective (Teeling, J.L. et
al. Therapeutic    efficacy of intravenous     immunoglobulin preparations      depends    on the
immunoglobulin G dimers: studies in experimental immune thrombocytopenia. Blood 98, 1095
 1099 (2001)). Furthermore, despite the fact that ion exchange resin and polyethylene glycol
fractionation are routinely used in the manufacture of IVIG to remove IgG aggregates, the
clinical efficacy of IVIG correlates with the presence of dimers in the patient's sera (Augener,
W., Friedman, B. & Brittinger, G. Are aggregates of IgG the effective part of high-dose
immunoglobulin therapy in adult idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)? Blut 50, 249-252
(1985)). Importantly, the percentage of dimers also correlates with vasoactive side effects, which
are treatable with acetylhydrolase (Bleeker, W.K. et al. Vasoactive side effects of intravenous
immunoglobulin preparations in a rat model and their treatment with recombinant platelet
activating factor acetylhydrolase. Blood 95, 1856-1861 (2000)).
     [0011]     The present invention relates to biologically active biomimetic molecules,
compositions comprising the same, and methods of using the same. These biomimetics have
broad application for treating immunological and inflammatory disorders including but not
limited to autoimmune diseases, and they have utility as bioimmunotherapy agents for cancer.
Further, certain of these biomimetics also have utility as reagents, such as for use in
immunological assays for testing immune cell function and in the diagnosis of disease.
Moreover, the biomimetics and compositions of the present invention have the advantage of
                                                 4.

overcoming the above-listed limitations of hIVIG. The invention also relates to the treatment and
prophylaxis of pathological       conditions mediated by monocyte-derived          cells, and more
particularly to the use of stabilized functional portions of IgG Fc fragments for such treatment
and prophylaxis.
     [0012]     In a first aspect there is provided a method for binding human low affinity Fcy
receptors (FcyR) on effector cells comprising          administering a recombinantly produced
biomimetic composition to a population of effector cells, wherein the biomimetic composition
comprises two or more human IgG Fc domains wherein each of the two or more human IgG Fc
domains is capable of binding to a human low affinity FcyR, wherein the biomimetic
composition binds to two or more human low affinity FcyRs, and wherein the biomimetic
composition does not comprise either an antigen binding domain or a non-immunoglobulin
protein, and wherein the low affinity FcyR is an FcyRIIA, an FcyRIIB, an FcyRIIIA, or an
FcyRIIIB receptor.
     [0013]     In a second aspect there is provided a method for binding human low affinity Fcy
receptors (FcyR) on effector cells comprising administering a recombinantly produced
biomimetic composition to a population of effector cells, wherein the biomimetic composition
comprises three or more human IgG Fc domains wherein each of the three or more human IgG
Fc domains comprises an IgG CH2 and an IgG CH3 domain and is capable of binding to a
human low affinity FcyR, wherein the biomimetic composition binds to two or more human low
affinity FcyRs, and wherein the biomimetic composition does not comprise either an antigen
binding domain or a non-immunoglobulin protein, and wherein the low affinity FcyR is an
FcyRIIA, an FcyRIIB, an FcyRIIIA, or an FcyRIIIB receptor.
     [0014]     In a first embodiment the present invention is directed to isolated serial
stradomers comprising two or more associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of the
stradomer monomers comprises two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein the association of
the two or more stradomer monomers forms two or more Fc domains, and wherein the serial
stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the two or more Fc domains
and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two or more Fc domains. In a preferred
embodiment, the two or more stradomer monomers are associated through a covalent bond, a
disulfide bond or chemical cross-linking.
                                                  5.

     [0015]     In a preferred embodiment of the isolated serial stradomers of the present
invention, the isolated serial stradomers are comprised of two associated stradomer monomers.
In an equally preferred embodiment, the isolated serial stradomers are comprised of two
associated stradomer monomers wherein both of the stradomer monomers comprise two Fc
domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc
domains. In a first particular example of these embodiments directed to isolated serial
stradomers, at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
In a second particular example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an IgG
hinge and an IgG CH2 domain. In a third particular example at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain. In a fourth particular
example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain
and an IgG CH3 domain. In a fifth particular example at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and
an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a sixth particular example at least one of the
two Fc domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain or an
IgG3 CH2 domain. In a seventh particular example each of the two Fc domains independently
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and
an IgG 1 CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In an eighth particular example each of the two
Fc domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3
domain. In a ninth particular example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an
IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a tenth particular example each
of the two Fc domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an
IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [0016]     Also in this first embodiment, the two or more Fc domains are each of a same
immunoglobulin Fc class, and the immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the group consisting
of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. Alternatively, the two or more Fc domains are each of a
different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the group
consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.
     [0017]     Further in this first embodiment, the first and second Fcy receptors are each
independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fey receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV.
Preferably the first and second Fey receptors are each Fcy receptor Ila.
                                                 6.

     [0018]    In a second embodiment the present invention is directed to isolated serial
stradomers comprising two associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of the stradomer
monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers, wherein the association of the two stradomer
monomers forms two Fc domains, wherein each of said two Fc domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain, and wherein the serial
stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the two Fc domains and to a
second Fcy receptor through a second of the two Fc domains. In a preferred embodiment, the two
or more stradomer monomers are associated through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or
chemical cross-linking.
     [0019]    In a first particular example of this second embodiment the two Fc domains are
each of a same immunoglobulin Fc class, and the immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the
group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. In a second particular example the two Fc
domains are each of a different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is
selected from the group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. In a third particular example at
least one of the Fc domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain. In a fourth
particular example each of the Fc domains independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG
CH2 domain. In a fifth particular example at least one of the Fc domains comprises an IgG
hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain. In a sixth particular example each of the Fc
domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
In a seventh particular example at least one of the Fc domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an
IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an
IgG3 CH3 domain. In an eighth particular example each of the Fc domains independently
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and
an IgG1 CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a ninth particular example each of the Fc
domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3
domain. In a tenth particular example each of the Fc domains independently comprises an IgG3
hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain. In an eleventh particular example each
of the Fc domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3
CH3 domain.
     [0020]    In a third embodiment the present invention is directed to isolated serial
stradomers further comprising a Fab domain, wherein each of the stradomer monomers
                                                 7.

comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain and two Fe domain monomers, wherein the Fab
fragment heavy chain is in a position amino terminal or carboxy terminal to the two Fe domain
monomers, wherein an Fab fragment light chain is independently associated with each Fab
fragment heavy chain, and wherein the Fab domain has antigen-binding activity. In a preferred
embodiment, each of the stradomer monomers further comprises an immunoglobulin hinge
monomer, and wherein the immunoglobulin hinge monomer is in a position between the Fab
fragment heavy chain and the two Fc domain monomers.
    [0021]     In a fourth embodiment the present invention is directed to core stradomers
comprising a core moiety linked to two or more core stradomer units, wherein each of the two or
more core stradomer units comprises at least one Fc domain, and wherein each of the core
stradomer units is independently selected from the group consisting of:
        (a)    an Fc fragment, wherein said Fc fragment comprises two associated Fc fragment
monomers, wherein each of said Fc fragment monomers comprises an Fc domain monomer, and
wherein the association of the two Fc fragment monomers forms an Fc domain,
        (b)    an Fc partial fragment, wherein said Fc partial fragment comprises two associated
Fc partial fragment monomers, wherein each of said Fc partial fragment monomers comprises an
Fc domain monomer, and wherein the association of the two Fc partial fragment monomers
forms an Fe domain,
        (c)    an Fc domain, wherein said Fc domain comprises two associated Fc domain
monomers, and wherein the association of the two Fc domain monomers forms an Fc domain,
        (d)    a serial stradomer, wherein said serial stradomer comprises two or more
associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two or
more Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two or more stradomer
monomers forms two or more Fc domains, and
        (e)    a cluster stradomer, wherein said cluster stradomer comprises two or more
multimerized cluster stradomer units, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises a
multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units
comprises two associated cluster stradomer unit monomers, wherein each of said cluster
stradomer unit monomers comprises a multimerizing region monomer and at least one Fc
domain monomer, wherein the association of the two cluster stradomer unit monomers forms a
                                                8.

multimerizing region and at least one Fe domain, and wherein the multimerizing regions of the
two or more cluster stradomer units multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and
        wherein the core stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the
two or more core stradomer units and to a second Fey receptor through a second of the two or
more core stradomer units.
    [0022]       Preferably in this fourth embodiment, the core moiety is selected from the group
consisting of an immunoglobulin J chain, albumin, liposome, bead, peptide and polyethylene
glycol.
    [0023]       In preferred embodiments directed to core stradomers the two or more core
stradomer units are each independently an Fc fragment. Alternatively, the two or more core
stradomer units are each independently a serial stradomer.
    [0024]       In a further preferred embodiment directed to core stradomers the core stradomer
comprises two core stradomer units, wherein each of the two core stradomer units is each
independently a serial stradomer, wherein the serial stradomer comprises two associated
stradomer monomers, wherein both of said stradomer monomers comprises two Fc domain
monomers, and wherein the association of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains.
In a first particular example of this embodiment, at least one of the Fc domains of the two or
more core stradomer units comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or
an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a second particular
example at least one of the Fc domains of the two or more two core stradomer units comprises an
IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain. In a third particular example each of the
Fc domains of the two or more two core stradomer units independently comprises an IgGI hinge,
an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain. In a fourth particular example at least one of
the Fc domains of the two or more two core stradomer units comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG
CH2 domain. In a fifth particular example each of the Fc domains of the two or more two core
stradomer units independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain. In a sixth
particular example each of the Fc domains of the two or more two core stradomer units
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a
seventh particular example each of the Fc domains of the two or more two core stradomer units
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
                                                 9.

     [0025]     In this embodiment, the first and second Fey receptors are each independently an
Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fey receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV. Preferably, the first
and second Fcy receptors are each Fcy receptor Ila.
     [0026]     In a fifth embodiment the present invention is directed to cluster stradomers
comprising two or more multimerized cluster stradomer units, wherein each of the cluster
stradomer units comprises a multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, wherein each of
the cluster stradomer units comprises two associated cluster stradomer unit monomers, wherein
each of the cluster stradomer unit monomers comprises a multimerizing region monomer and at
least one Fc domain monomer, wherein the association of the two cluster stradomer unit
monomers forms a multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, wherein the multimerizing
regions of the two or more cluster stradomer units multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and
wherein the cluster stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first Fc domain
and to a second Fey receptor through a second Fc domain.
     [0027]     In preferred embodiments, the multimerizing region is selected from the group
consisting of an IgG2 hinge, an IgE CH2 domain, a leucine, an isoleucine zipper and a zinc
finger.
     [0028]     In further preferred embodiment, the cluster stradomers comprising two, three,
four or five multimerized cluster stradomer units.
     [0029]     In a first particular example of this fifth embodiment at least one of the Fc
domains comprises an IgG1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgG1 CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgG1 CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a second particular example each
of the Fc domains independently comprises an IgG1 hinge, an IgG1 CH2 domain, and an IgG1
CH3 domain. In a third particular example at least one of the Fc domains comprises an IgG hinge
and an IgG CH2 domain. In a fourth particular example each of the Fc domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain. In a fifth particular example each of the Fc
domains independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3
domain. In a sixth particular example each of the Fc domains independently comprises an IgGI
hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a seventh particular example each of
the Fc domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3
domain. In an eighth particular example at least one of the cluster stradomer units comprises two
                                                10.

or more Fe domains. In a ninth particular example each of the cluster stradomer units comprises
two or more Fc domains.
    [0030]      In this embodiment, the first and second Fcy receptors are each independently an
Fcy receptor I, an Fey receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV. Preferably, the first
and second Fcy receptors are each Fcy receptor Ila.
    [0031]      In a sixth embodiment the present invention is directed to stradobodies
comprising two or more associated stradomer monomers and an Fab domain, wherein each of the
stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain and two or more Fc domain
monomers, wherein the Fab fragment heavy chain is in a position amino terminal or carboxy
terminal to the two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein the association of the two or more
stradomer monomers forms two or more Fc domains, wherein an Fab fragment light chain is
independently associated with the Fab fragment heavy chain of each stradomer monomer,
wherein the Fab domain has antigen-binding activity, and wherein the stradobody specifically
binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the two or more Fc domains and to a second Fcy
receptor through a second of the two or more Fc domains.
    [0032]      In preferred embodiments the two or more stradomer monomers are associated
through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or chemical cross-linking.
    [0033]      In a further preferred embodiment, each of said stradomer monomers of the
stradobodies    further comprises    an immunoglobulin hinge        monomer, and wherein the
immunoglobulin hinge monomer is in a position between the Fab fragment heavy chain and the
two Fc domain monomers.
    [0034]      In a particular embodiment the stradobody comprises two associated stradomer
monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain
and two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two stradomer monomers
forms two Fc domains. In a first particular example of this embodiment, at least one of the two
Fc domains comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain. In a second
particular example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG
CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain. In a third particular example at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain. In a fourth particular example each of
the Fc two domains independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain. In a fifth
particular example at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge,
                                                 11.

an IgG1 CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG1 CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3
domain. In a sixth particular example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an
IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3
domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a seventh particular example each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain. In an
eighth particular example each of the two Fc domains independently comprises an IgG3 hinge,
an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain. In a ninth particular example each of the two
Fc domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3
domain. In a tenth particular example at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an IgGI
hinge or an lgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain. In an eleventh
particular example at least one of the two Fe domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge,
and an IgGI CH2 domain.
    [0035]     In this embodiment, the first and second Fcy receptors are each independently an
Fey receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV. Preferably, the first
and second Fcy receptors are each Fcy receptor Ila.
    [0036]     In a seventh embodiment the present invention is directed to methods of altering
an immune response in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a serial stradomer
and a carrier or diluent. In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of serial stradomers and a carrier or
diluent.
    [0037]     In an eighth embodiment the present invention is directed to methods of altering
an immune response in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a core stradomer
and a carrier or diluent. In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of core stradomers and a carrier or
diluent.
    [0038]     In a ninth embodiment the present invention is directed to methods of altering an
immune response in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a cluster stradomer
and a carrier or diluent. In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
                                                12.

therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of cluster stradomers and a carrier
or diluent.
     [0039]     In a tenth embodiment the present invention is directed to methods of altering an
immune response in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a stradobody and a
carrier or diluent. In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of stradobodies and a carrier or
diluent.
     [0040]     In an eleventh embodiment the present invention is directed to methods of
screening an antibody for a specific activity on a cell of the immune system, comprising: (a)
contacting a homogenous population of cells of the immune system with a candidate antibody,
(b) measuring an activity of the population of cells of (a), (c) contacting a homogenous
population of cells of the same cell type as in (a) with a serial stradomer of claim 1, (d)
measuring an activity of the population of cells of (c), and (e) comparing the activity measured in
(b) with the activity measured in (d), thereby screening an antibody for a specific activity on a
cell of the immune system. In a preferred embodiment, the candidate antibody and the serial
stradomer are species-matched and isotype-matched. In a further preferred embodiment, the
comparison in (e) is a ratio of activity measured in (d) versus the activity measured in (b).
     [0041]     In a twelfth embodiment the present invention is directed methods of inhibiting
the activity of a monocyte-derived cell (MDC). The method involves contacting the cell with a
composition containing a substrate with an Fc reagent bound to it. The contacting can be in vitro,
in vivo, or ex vivo. The cell can be in an animal, e.g., an animal that has or is at risk of
developing a monocyte derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC). The cell can be, for
example, a dendritic cell, a macrophage, a monocyte, or an osteoclast.
     [0042]     In a thirteenth embodiment the present invention is directed methods of treatment
that includes administering to an animal a composition comprising a substrate having an Fc
reagent bound thereto, the animal having or being at risk of developing a monocyte-derived cell
mediated condition (MDCMC).
     [0043]     The following are embodiments common to both these two methods (the twelfth
and thirteenth embodiments).
     [0044]     The animal can be, for example, a human.
                                                 13.

     [0045]     The Fe reagent can contain or be a functional portion of a human Fc fragment,
e.g., a human IgGI Fc fragment, a human IgG3 Fc fragment, a human IgG2, or a human IgG4 Fc
fragment. Moreover it can include or be an IgG molecule. The Fc reagent can also be or include
a functional portion of a non-human Fc fragment.
     [0046]     The substrate can be or include a synthetic polymer, e.g., nylon, teflon, dacron,
polyvinyl chloride, PEU (poly (ester urethane)), PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene), or PMMA
(methyl methacrylate). The substrate can include or be a metal or a metal alloy, e.g., stainless
steel, platinum, iridium, titanium, tantalum, a nickel-titanium alloy, or a cobalt-chromium alloy.
The substrate can contain or be animal tissue or an animal tissue product, e.g., a tissue or organ
graft, bone (e.g., osteogenic bone), or cartilage. The substrate can contain or be a protein, e.g.,
collagen or keratin. The substrate can also be or contain a polysaccharide, e.g., agarose.
Moreover, the substrate can contain or be a tissue matrix, e.g., an acellular tissue matrix. The
substrate can contain or be an animal cell (e.g., a tissue repair cell such as a fibroblasts or a
mesenchymal stem cell). The substrate can contain or be a salt, e.g., calcium sulfate. Furthermore
the substrate can be or contain a gel or cream. It can also contain or be silicon or silastic. It can
also contain be a natural fiber, e.g., silk, cotton, or wool.
     [0047]     The substrate can be a hair transplant plug or an implantable medical device such
as a stent (e.g., a vascular stent such as a coronary artery stent; an airway stent such as an
endotracheal or nasal stent; a gastrointestinal stent such a biliary or pancreatic stent; or a urinary
stent such as a ureteral stent). It can also be a surgical suture (e.g., a braid silk, chromic gut,
nylon, plastic, or metal suture or a surgical clip (e.g., an aneurism clip)). In addition, the
substrate can be an artificial hip, an artificial hip joint, an artificial knee, an artificial knee joint,
an artificial shoulder, an artificial shoulder joint, an artificial finger or toe joint, a bone plate, a
bone dowel, a bone non-union implant, an intervertebral disk implant, bone cement, or a bone
cement spacer. It can be an arterial-venous shunt, an implantable wire, a pacemaker, an artificial
heart, a heart assist device, a cochlear implant, an implantable defibrillator, a spinal cord
stimulator, a central nervous system stimulator, a peripheral nerve implant, a dental prosthesis, or
a dental crown. Furthermore, the substrate can be a large vessel embolic filtering device or cage,
a percutaneous device, a dermal or sub-mucosal patch, or an implantable drug delivery device.
                                                    14.

    [0048]      The substrate can also be a large blood vessel graft, wherein the blood vessel is,
for example, a carotid artery, a femoral artery, or an aorta. It can also be a sub-dermal implant, a
corneal implant, an intraocular lens, or a contact lens.
    [0049]      The substrate can be in the form of, e.g., a sheet, a bead, a mesh, a powder
particle, a thread, a bead, or a fiber. The substrate can contain or be a solid, a semi-solid, or a
gelatinous substance. Thus, a substrate includes substances that are substantially insoluble in
aqueous solvents, e.g., a fat-soluble lipid such as a liposome.
    [0050]      The MDCMC can be an inflammatory condition, an autoimmune disease, a
cancer, a disorder of bone density, an acute infection, or a chronic infection.
    [0051]      It can be a hematoimmunological process, e.g., Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic
Purpura, alloimmune/autoimmune thrombocytopenia, Acquired immune thrombocytopenia,
Autoimmune neutropenia, Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Parvovirus B 19-associated red cell
aplasia, Acquired antifactor VIII autoimmunity, acquired von Willebrand disease, Multiple
Myeloma and Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance, Sepsis, Aplastic anemia,
pure red cell aplasia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, hemolytic disease of the newborn, Immune
mediated neutropenia, refractoriness to platelet transfusion, neonatal post-transfusion purpura,
hemolytic uremic syndrome, systemic Vasculitis, Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, or
Evan's syndrome.
    [0052]      Alternatively, the MDCMC can be a neuroimmunological process, e.g., Guillain
Barr6 syndrome, Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy, Paraproteinemic
IgM demyelinating Polyneuropathy, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, Myasthenia gravis,
Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron Syndrome associated with anti-GM1
antibodies,   Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis and optic neuritis, Stiff Man Syndrome,
Paraneoplastic      cerebellar    degeneration     with     anti-Yo     antibodies,   paraneoplastic
encephalomyelitis, sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu antibodies, epilepsy, Encephalitis, Myelitis,
Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1, Autoimmune
Diabetic Neuropathy, or Acute Idiopathic Dysautonomic Neuropathy.
    [0053]      The MDCMC can be a Rheumatic disease process, e.g., Kawasaki's disease,
Rheumatoid arthritis, Felty's syndrome, ANCA-positive Vasculitis, Spontaneous Polymyositis,
Dermatomyositis, Antiphospholipid syndromes, Recurrent spontaneous abortions, Systemic
Lupus Erythematosus, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Raynaud's, CREST syndrome, or Uveitis.
                                                  15.

     [0054]     Moreover, the MDCMC can be a dermatoimmunological disease process, e.g.,
Epidermal Necrolysis, Gangrene, Granuloma, Autoimmune skin blistering diseases including
Pemphigus vulgaris, Bullous Pemphigoid, and Pemphigus foliaceus, Vitiligo, Streptococcal toxic
shock syndrome, Scleroderma, systemic sclerosis including diffuse and limited cutaneous
systemic sclerosis, Atopic dermatitis, or steroid dependent Atopic dermatitis.
     [0055]     In addition, the MDCMC can be a musculoskeletal immunological disease, e.g.,
Inclusion Body Myositis, Necrotizing fasciitis, Inflammatory Myopathies, Myositis, Anti
Decorin (BJ antigen) Myopathy, Paraneoplastic Necrotic Myopathy, X-linked Vacuolated
Myopathy, Penacillamine-induced Polymyositis, Atherosclerosis, Coronary Artery Disease, or
Cardiomyopathy.
     [0056]     The MDCMC can also be a gastrointestinal immunological disease process, e.g.,
pernicious anemia, autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac disease,
dermatitis herpetiformis, cryptogenic cirrhosis, Reactive arthritis, Crohn's disease, Whipple's
disease, ulcerative colitis, or sclerosing cholangitis.
     [0057]     The MDCMC can be, for example, Graft Versus Host Disease, Antibody
mediated rejection of the graft, Post-bone marrow transplant rejection, Post-infectious disease
inflammation, Lymphoma, Leukemia, Neoplasia, Asthma, Type 1 Diabetes mellitus with anti
beta cell antibodies, Sjogren's syndrome, Mixed Connective Tissue Disease, Addison' s disease,
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome, Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, Goodpasture's
syndrome,      Graves'      disease,    Hashimoto's      thyroiditis,   Wegener's    granulomatosis,
micropolyarterits, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa or Multisystem organ failure.
     [0058]     Where the MDCMC is a cancer, it can be fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma,
liposarcoma,       chondrosarcoma,         osteogenic      sarcoma,     chordoma,     angiosarcoma,
endotheliosarcoma,        lymphangiosarcoma,          lymphangioendotheliosarcoma,       synovioma,
mesothelioma,     Ewing's     tumor,    leiomyosarcoma,      rhabdomyosarcoma,    colon   carcinoma,
pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal
cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary
carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma,
embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor, lung carcinoma, small
cell   lung   carcinoma,     bladder    carcinoma,    epithelial  carcinoma,  glioma,   astrocytoma,
                                                   16.

medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic
neuroma,     oligodendroglioma,     meningioma,       melanoma,   neuroblastoma,     retinoblastoma,
leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, myelodysplastic
disease, heavy chain disease,neuroendocrine tumors, or Schwanoma.
    [0059]      Where the MDCMC is a disorder of bone density, it can be osteoporosis,
osteopenia, osteopetrosis, idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, anorexia nervosa, non
healing fracture, post-menopausal osteoporosis, Vitamin D deficiency or excess, primary or
secondary hyperparathyroidism, thyroid disease, or bisphosphonate toxicity.
    [0060]       Where the MDCMC is an acute infection, it can be: a fungal disorder including
Candidiasis, Candidemia, or Aspergillosis; a bacterial disorder, including staphylococcus
including Methicillin Resistant Staph aureus, streptococcal skin and oropharyngeal conditions, or
gram negative sepsis; a mycobacterial infection including tuberculosis; a viral infection
including mononucleosis, Respiratory Syntitial virus infection, or Herpes zoster infection; a
parasitic infection including malaria, schistosomiasis, or trypanosomiasis.
    [0061]      Where the MDCMC is a chronic infection, it can be onchyomycosis; a bacterial
disorder including Helicobacter pylori; a mycobacterial infection including tuberculosis; a viral
infection including Epstein Barr virus infection, Human Papilloma Virus infection, or Herpes
Simplex Virus infection; or a parasitic infection including malaria or schistosomiasis.
    [0062]      In a fourteenth embodiment the present invention is directed a composition that
contains or is an implantable or attachable medical device and an Fc reagent bound thereto.
    [0063]      In a fifteenth embodiment the present invention is directed a kit that contains an
implantable or attachable medical device and an Fc reagent. In both these embodiments, the
implantable or attachable medical device and the Fc reagent can be any of those recited herein.
The kit can further contain a suitable container.
    [0064]      Additional advantages and features of the present invention will be apparent from
the following     detailed description,   drawings and examples, which          illustrate preferred
embodiments of the invention.
    [0065]      The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of
the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be
better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described
hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by
                                                  17.

those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily
utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes
of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent
constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended
claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention, both as to its
organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages will be better
understood     from the    following    description when     considered   in connection with the
accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each of the figures is
provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of
the limits of the present invention.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0066]      FIG. lA shows in schematic form a native Fc fragment monomer structure from
IgG 1 having a Hinge domain linked to a CH2 domain linked to a CH3 domain; FIG. lB shows a
self-aggregated, native IgGI Fc fragment formed from two associated Fc fragment monomers.
     [0067]      FIG. 1C shows in schematic form a native Fc fragment monomer structure from
IgG3 having a Hinge domain linked to a CH2 domain linked to a CH3 domain; FIG. 1D shows a
self-aggregated, native IgG3 Fc fragment formed from two associated Fc fragment monomers.
     [0068]      FIGS. 2A and 2B show higher order aggregates of the native Fc fragment
structure shown in FIG. lB. Fc fragments may naturally multimerize into dimers of dimer (i.e.
tetramers) or even higher order multimer aggregates.
     [0069]      FIG. 3A shows a schematic of a native IgGI antibody having a native Fab
fragment linked to the Fc fragment at the hinge of the Fc fragment; FIG. 3B shows the analogous
IgG3 structure.
     [0070]      FIG. 4A shows a stradomer monomer composed of two IgGI Fc domain
monomers in series; FIG. 4B shows an alternative stradomer monomer structure having linked in
series IgGI Fc-IgG3 Fe-IgE Fc.
     [0071]      FIG. 5A & B show the stradomer monomers of FIGS. 4A & B autodimerizing
into a serial stradomer due to the intrinsic capacity of the component Fc domain monomers.
     [0072]      FIG. 6A shows a stradomer monomer containing IgGI Fc - IgGI (hinge - CH2);
FIG. 6B shows a stradomer containing IgGI (hinge - CH2) - IgG3 (hinge -CH2) - IgE (hinge
CH2) derived sequences.
                                                   18.

     [0073]     FIG. 7A & B show the stradomer monomers of 6A & B autodimerizing into a
serial stradomer due to the intrinsic capacity of the component Fc domains.
     [0074]     FIG. 7C shows a serial stradomer containing IgE(hinge)-IgGl Fc-IgG1 (hinge
CH2)-IgE (CH3). FIG. 7D shows a serial stradomer containing an IgG3Fc - IgGlFc.
     [0075]     FIG. 8A shows a stradobody construct containing a Fab with a serial stradomer
structure with each stradomer monomer containing two IgG1 CH2-CH3 derived Fc domain
monomers; FIG. 8B shows a stradobody construct as in 8A but with a stradomer structure
containing an IgG1 Fc linked to an IgG3 Fc linked to an IgE Fc.
     [0076]     FIG. 9A shows an IgGI Fc - IgGI (hinge - CH2) stradobody; FIG. 9B shows
IgGI (hinge - CH2) - IgG3 (hinge - CH2) - IgE (hinge - CH2) 3-stradobody.
     [0077]     FIG. 1OA shows an IgGI (hinge-CH2)- IgG3 CH3 - IgM CH4 stradomer
monomer and a J chain protein; FIG. 1OB shows a core stradomer based on a fivemer of the
stradomer of FIG. 1OA formed by association through the IgM CH4 domain to a J chain.
     [0078]     FIG. 1OC shows an IgGI Fc - IgGI Fc - IgM CH4 stradomer monomer and a J
chain protein; FIG. 1OD shows a core stradomer based on a fivemer of the stradomer of FIG.
 1OC formed by association through the IgM CH4 domain to a J chain.
     [0079]     FIG. 11 A shows an IgGI Fc - IgGI (hinge - CH2) stradomer monomer. FIG. 1 B
demonstrates how the stradomer monomer in FIG. 11 A can autodimerize to form a serial
stradomer. FIG. I1C demonstrates how the same stradomer monomer in FIG. 11 A can have
monomer Fc domains align with the same or similar Fc domain monomers on another stradomer
monomer but not as an autodimer, thereby forming a stradomer composed of the same stradomer
monomer as the autodimer but with a zipper effect structure.
     [0080]     FIG. 12A shows an IgG3 Fc - IgGI Fc stradomer monomer. FIG. 12B shows that
the addition of a second IgG3 Fc followed by autodimerization can form a branched structured
IgG3 Fc - IgGI Fc - IgG3 Fc stradomer.
     [0081]     FIG. 13A shows an IgE CH2 - IgGI Fc - IgGI (hinge-CH2) - IgE CH4 stradomer
monomer. FIG. 13B shows the autodimer of the FIG. 13A monomer and highlights two FcYR
binding sites formed.
     [0082]     FIG. 14A shows a stradomer composed of two IgGI Fc domains joined by a
linker. FIG. 14B shows a stradomer composed of two serial stradomers (specifically in each case
a 2(IgGl Fc) stradomer) joined by a linker.
                                                  19.

     [0083]    FIG. 15A shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:1) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:2)
sequences of the human IgGI Fc fragment. FIG. 15B shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:3) and
amino acid (SEQ ID NO:4) sequences of the human IgG2 Fc fragment. FIG. 15C shows the
nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:5) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:6) sequences of the human IgG3 Fc
fragment. FIG. 15D shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:7) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:8)
sequences of the human IgG4 Fc fragment.
     [0084]    FIG. 16 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:17) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:18)
sequences of a construct comprising         {IgK signal sequence-IgGI     Fc fragment-IgGI      Fc
fragment}. The amino acid sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The amino acid sequence of the
first IgGI Fc fragment is single underlined. The amino acid sequence of the second IgGI Fc
fragment is double underlined. The serine and lysine marked with an asterisk are those amino
acids that may be mutated to alter Fcy receptor binding.
     [0085]    FIG. 17 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:19) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:20)
sequences of a construct comprising {Restriction Enzyme Sites-IgK signal sequence-Restriction
Enzyme Sites-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-Restriction Enzyme Sites-epitope tags(V5 and His)
STOP}. The amino acid sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The amino acid sequence of the
IgGI Fc fragment is single underlined. The amino acid sequence of the V5 tag is underlined with
a dashed line. The amino acid sequence of the His tag is underlined in bold.
     [0086]    FIG. 18 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:21) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:22)
sequences of a construct comprising {Restriction Enzyme Sites-IgK signal-Restriction Enzyme
Sites-IgGI(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-XbaI         site-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-STOP).       The    amino     acid
sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The amino acid sequence of the first IgGI Fc fragment is
single underlined. The amino acid sequence of the second IgGI Fc fragment is double
underlined.
     [0087]    FIG. 19 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:23) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:24)
sequences of a construct comprising {Restriction Enzyme Sites-IgK signal-Restriction Enzyme
Sites-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-XbaI         site-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-Restriction      Enzyme     Sites
epitope tags(V5 and His)-STOP}. The amino acid sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The
amino acid sequence of the first IgGI Fc fragment is single underlined. The amino acid sequence
of the second IgG1 Fc fragment is double underlined. The amino acid sequence of the V5 tag is
underlined with a dashed line. The amino acid sequence of the His tag is underlined in bold.
                                                20.

     [0088]     FIG. 20A shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:31) and amino acid (SEQ ID
NO:32) sequences of the N-terminal signal sequence of FcRgammallla with the phenylalanine
(F) polymorphism shown in bold and underlined. The variable nucleic acid is also in bold and
underlined. Figure 20B shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:33) and amino acid (SEQ ID
NO:34) sequences of the N-terminal signal sequence of FcRgammallla with valine (V)
polymorphism shown in bold and underlined. The variable nucleic acid is also in bold and
underlined. Both constructs contain a C-terminal hexaHis tag for purification.
     [0089]     FIG. 21 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:25) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:26)
sequences of a construct comprising        {Restriction Enzyme Sites-IgK signalEcoRV Site
IgG3 (Hinge-CH2-CH3)-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-Restriction         Enzyme Sites-epitope tags(V5 and
His) -STOP} . The amino acid sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The amino acid sequence of
the IgG3 Fc fragment is single underlined. The amino acid sequence of the IgG1 Fc fragment is
double underlined. The amino acid sequence of the V5 tag is underlined with a dashed line. The
amino acid sequence of the His tag is underlined in bold.
     [0090]     FIG. 22 shows the nucleic acid (SEQ ID NO:27) and amino acid (SEQ ID NO:28)
sequences of a construct comprising {Restriction Enzyme Sites-IgK signal-EcoRV Site
IgE(CH2)-IgG1 (Hinge-CH2-CH3 )-IgG1 (Hinge-CH2)-IgE(CH4)-STOP}                  . The amino acid
sequence of the IgK signal is in bold. The amino acid sequence of the IgE(CH2) domain is single
underlined. The amino acid sequence of the IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)                 domain is double
underlined. The amino acid sequence of the IgGl(Hinge-CH2) domain is underlined with a
dashed line. The amino acid sequence of the IgE (CH4) domain is underlined with a wavy line.
     [0091]     FIG. 23A shows an Fc fragment and demonstrates that such Fc fragment is
composed of two Fc fragment monomers, and further comprises an Fc domain (dashed circle)
and Fc partial domains (hinge, CH2 and CH3 as indicated). FIG. 23B shows the composition of a
serial stradomer, composed of two stradomer monomers which are connected by an inter
stradomer monomer linkage. The serial stradomer comprises at least two Fc domains (indicated
as dashed circles) and may optionally comprise a domain linkage region. FIG. 23C shows the
composition of a core stradomer comprising a core moiety to which are bound core stradomer
units that contain at least one Fc domain each. The core stradomer units may be an Fc fragment,
a serial stradomer or a cluster stradomer unit. FIG. 23D shows the composition of a cluster
stradomer comprising multimerized cluster stradomer units, each of which has a multimerizing
                                                21.

region and a region containing at least one Fc domain. The cluster stradomer unit may be an Fc
fragment or a serial stradomer. The multimerizing region, once multimerized, forms the head of
a cluster stradomer. The legs of the cluster stradomer are formed by the Fc domain regions of the
cluster stradomer units that are spatially less constrained than the multimerized head of the
cluster stradomer.
     [0092]     FIG. 24 shows the amino acid sequences of the stradomer set forth in Table 3.
     [0093]     FIG. 25 shows the amino acid sequences for the Fc partial domains monomers
(hinge, CH2 and CH3) of human IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 (Kabat, EA, Wu, TT, Perry, HM,
Gottesman, KS, and Foeller, C. 1991. Sequences of proteins of immunological interest 5th Ed.
US Public Health Services, NIH, Bethesda).
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     [0094]     The approach to rational molecular design for hIVIG replacement compounds
described herein includes recombinant and/or biochemical creation of immunologically active
biomimetic(s). In preferred methods, these replacement compounds are screened in vitro to
assess each replacement compound's efficiency at binding to Fcy receptor and modulating
immune function. Particular replacement compounds are selected for further in vivo validation
and dosage/administration optimization. The replacement compounds have utility for treating,
for example, autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases, osteoporosis, and cancer. Each phase
is described in detail below along with specific exemplary embodiments.
     [0095]     It is to be noted that, throughout the description and claims of this specification,
the word 'comprise' and variations of the word, such as 'comprising' and 'comprises', is not
intended to exclude other variants or additional components, integers or steps. Modifications
and improvements to the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Such
modifications and improvements are intended to be within the scope of this invention.
     [0096]     Any reference to or discussion of any document, act or item of knowledge in this
specification is included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention.
It is not suggested or represented that any of these matters or any combination thereof formed at
the priority date part of the common general knowledge, or was known to be relevant to an
attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.
                                                 22.

     [0097]     As used herein, the use of the word "a" or "an" when used in conjunction with the
term "comprising" in the claims and/or the specification may mean "one," but it is also
consistent with the meaning of "one or more," ''at least one," and "one or more than one."
     [0098]     As used herein, the terms "biomimetic", "biomimetic molecule", "biomimetic
compound", and related terms, refer to a human made compound that imitates the function of
another compound, such as pooled hIVIG, a monoclonal antibody or the Fc fragment of an
antibody. "Biologically active" biomimetics are compounds which possess biological activities
that are the same as or substantially similar to their naturally occurring counterparts.
"Immunologically active" biomimetics are biomimetics which exhibit immunological activity
the same as or substantially similar to naturally occurring immunologically active molecules,
such as antibodies, cytokines, interleukins and other immunological molecules known in the art.
In preferred embodiments, the biomimetics of the present invention are stradomers and
stradobodies, as defined herein.
     [0099]      The immunologically active biomimetics of the present invention are designed to
possess one or more immune modulating activities of the IgG Fc domain and have at least (i) a
first Fc domain capable of binding an FcyR, including FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII and FcyRIV, and
(ii) a second Fc domain capable of binding an FcyR, including FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII and
FcyRIV.
     [00100]    The following paragraphs define the building blocks of the biomimetics of the
present invention, both structurally and functionally, and then define biomimetics themselves.
However, it is first helpful to note that, as indicated above, each of the biomimetics of the present
invention has at least two Fc domains. At a minimum, an Fc domain is a dimeric polypeptide (or
a dimeric region of a larger polypeptide) that comprises two peptide chains or arms (monomers)
that associate to form a functional Fcy receptor binding site. Therefore, the functional form of the
individual fragments and domains discussed herein generally exist in a dimeric (or multimeric)
form. The monomers of the individual fragments and domains discussed herein are the single
chains or arms that must associate with a second chain or arm to form a functional dimeric
structure.
Fc Fragment
     [00101]    "Fc fragment" is a term of art that is used to describe the protein region or protein
folded structure that is routinely found at the carboxy terminus of immunoglobulins (see Figure
                                                   23.

3A-3B). The Fe fragment can be isolated from the Fab fragment of a monoclonal antibody
through the use of papain digestion, which is an incomplete and imperfect process (see Mihaesco
C and Seligmann M. Papain Digestion Fragments Of Human IgM Globulins. Journal of
Experimental Medicine, Vol 127, 431453 (1968)).            In conjunction with the Fab fragment
(containing the antibody binding domain) the Fc fragment constitutes the holo-antibody,
meaning here the complete antibody. The Fc fragment consists of the carboxy terminal portions
of the antibody heavy chains. Each of the chains in an Fc fragment is between about 220-265
amino acids in length and the chains are often linked via a disulfide bond. The Fc fragment often
contains one or more independent structural folds or functional subdomains. In particular, the Fc
fragment encompasses an Fc domain, defined herein as the minimum structure that binds an Fcy
receptor (see, e.g., Figures 1B and 1D). An isolated Fc fragment is comprised of two Fc fragment
monomers (e.g., the two carboxy terminal portions of the antibody heavy chains; further defined
herein) that are dimerized. When two Fc fragment monomers associate, the resulting Fc fragment
has Fcy receptor binding activity.
Fc Partial Fragment
     [00102]    An "Fc partial fragment" is a domain comprising less than the entire Fc fragment
of an antibody, yet which retains sufficient structure to have the same activity as the Fc fragment,
including Fcy receptor binding activity. An Fc partial fragment may therefore lack part or all of a
hinge region, part or all of a CH2 domain, part or all of a CH3 domain, and/or part or all of a
CH4 domain, depending on the isotype of the antibody from which the Fc partial domain is
derived. An example of a Fc partial fragment includes a molecule comprising the upper, core and
lower hinge regions plus the CH2 domain of IgG3 (Tan, LK, Shopes, RJ, Oi, VT and Morrison,
SL, Influence of the hinge region on complement activation, C 1 q binding, and segmental
flexibility in chimeric human immunoglobulins, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA.         1990 January; 87(1):
 162-166). Thus, in this example the Fc partial fragment lacks the CH3 domain present in the Fc
fragment of IgG3. Fc partial fragments are comprised of two Fc partial fragment monomers. As
further defined herein, when two such Fc partial fragment monomers associate, the resulting Fc
partial fragment has Fcy receptor binding activity.
Fc Domain
     [00103]    As used herein, "Fc domain" describes the minimum region (in the context of a
larger polypeptide) or smallest protein folded structure (in the context of an isolated protein) that
                                                 24.

can bind to or be bound by an Fey receptor. In both an Fc fragment and an Fc partial fragment,
the Fc domain is the minimum binding region that allows binding of the molecule to an Fcy
receptor. While an Fc domain can be limited to a discrete polypeptide that is bound by an Fcy
receptor, it will also be clear that an Fc domain can be a part or all of an Fc fragment, as well as
part or all of an Fc partial fragment. When the term "Fc domains" is used in this invention it will
be recognized by a skilled artisan as meaning more than one Fc domain. An Fc domain is
comprised of two Fc domain monomers. As further defined herein, when two such Fc domain
monomers associate, the resulting Fc domain has Fcy receptor binding activity. Thus an Fc
domain is a dimeric structure that functionally can bind an Fcy receptor.
Fc Partial Domain
     [00104]     As used herein, "Fc partial domain" describes a portion of an Fc domain. Fc
partial domains include the individual heavy chain constant region domains (e.g., CH1, CH2,
CH3 and CH4 domains) and hinge regions of the different immunoglobulin classes and
subclasses. Thus, Fc partial domains of the present invention include the CH1 domains of IgGl,
IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, IgAl, IgA2, IgD and IgE, the CH2 domains of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4,
IgM, IgAl, IgA2, IgD and IgE, the CH3 domains of IgG 1 , IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgM, IgAl, IgA2,
IgD and IgE, the CH4 domains of IgM and IgE, and the hinge regions of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3,
IgG4, IgM, IgAl, IgA2, IgD and IgE. The Fc partial domain of the present invention may further
comprise a combination of more than one more of these domains and hinges. However, the
individual Fc partial domains of the present invention and combinations thereof lack the ability
to bind an FcyR. Therefore, the Fc partial domains and combinations thereof comprise less than
an Fc domain. Fc partial domains may be linked together to form a peptide that has Fcy receptor
binding activity, thus forming an Fc domain. In the present invention, Fc partial domains are
used with Fc domains as the building blocks to create the biomimetics of the present invention,
as defined herein. Each Fc partial domain is comprised of two Fc partial domain monomers.
When two such Fc partial domain monomers associate, an Fc partial domain is formed.
     [00105]     As indicated above, each of Fc fragments, Fc partial fragments, Fc domains and
Fc partial domains are dimeric proteins or domains. Thus, each of these molecules is comprised
of two monomers that associate to form the dimeric protein or domain. While the characteristics
and activity of the dimeric forms was discussed above the monomeric peptides are discussed as
follows.
                                                 25.

Fc Fragment Monomer
     [00106]    As used herein, an "Fe fragment monomer" is a single chain protein that, when
associated with another Fc fragment monomer, comprises an Fc fragment. The Fc fragment
monomer is thus the carboxy terminal portion of one of the antibody heavy chains that make up
the Fc fragment of a holo-antibody (e.g., the contiguous portion of the heavy chain that includes
the hinge region, CH2 domain and CH3 domain of IgG) (see Figure 1A and Figure 1C)). In one
embodiment, the Fc fragment monomer comprises, at a minimum, one chain of a hinge region (a
hinge monomer), one chain of a CH2 domain (a CH2 domain monomer) and one chain of a CH3
domain (a CH3 domain monomer), contiguously linked to form a peptide. In another
embodiment, the Fc fragment monomer comprises at least one chain of a hinge region, one chain
of a CH2 domain, one chain of a CH3 domain, and one chain of a CH4 domain (a CH4 domain
monomer) contiguously linked to form a peptide.
Fc Domain Monomer
     [00107]    As used herein, "Fc domain monomer" describes the single chain protein that,
when associated with another Fc domain monomer, comprises an Fc domain that can bind to an
Fcy receptor. The association of two Fc domain monomers creates one Fc domain. An Fc domain
monomer alone, comprising only one side of an Fc domain, cannot bind an Fcy receptor.
Fc Partial Domain Monomer
     [00108]    As used herein, "Fc partial domain monomer" describes the single chain protein
that, when associated with another Fc partial domain monomer, comprises an Fc partial domain.
The amino acid sequences of the Fc partial domain hinge, CH2 and CH3 monomers for IgGI,
IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 are shown in Figure 25. The association of two Fc partial domain
monomers creates one Fc partial domain.
Stradomers
     [00109]    In particular embodiments, the biomimetics of the present invention include
stradomers. Stradomers are biomimetic compounds capable of binding two or more Fcy
receptors (see, e.g., Figure 13B). In a preferred embodiment, the stradomers of the present
invention are used to bind Fcy receptors on effector cells such as NK cells and immature
dendritic cells and other monocyte-derived cells. In one embodiment, the Fcy receptors are low
affinity Fcy receptors. A stradomer can have four different physical conformations: serial,
cluster, core or Fc fragment, each of which is discussed in the following paragraphs. As will be
                                               26.

evident, the Fe fragments, Fe partial fragments, Fc domains and Fc partial domains discussed
above are used in the construction of the various stradomer conformations. Further, it is the
individual Fc domain monomers and Fc partial domain monomers, also discussed above, that are
first produced, and that then self-associate to form the dimeric structures that are the stradomers
of the present invention.
Serial Stradomer
      [00110]    A "serial stradomer" is dimeric polypeptide comprised of two linear stradomer
monomers that, when associated, form two or more Fc domains. The Fc domains of the
stradomer are only functional when the two peptide chains (stradomer monomers) are associated
(i.e., non-functional in the monomeric state). Thus a serial stradomer is a biomimetic compound
capable of binding two or more Fc7 receptors. In different embodiments, serial stradomer may
have two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen or more
Fc domains, as well as Fc partial domains. The Fc domains, and Fc partial domains, within a
serial stradomer may be linked by domain linkages, as further defined herein.
      [00111]    As used herein, a "stradomer dimer" is a specific form of a stradomer, composed
of only two stradomers. In one embodiment, the stradomer dimers are molecules formed by self
aggregation of relevant stradomer monomers. In another embodiment, stradomer monomers in
the stradomer dimers are physically linked through an inter-stradomer monomer linkage, as
defined herein. A "multimeric stradomer" is comprised of three or more stradomers, formed by
self-aggregation of stradomer monomers, or through an inter-stradomer monomer linkage, as
defined herein in.
Stradomer Monomer
      [00112]    As used herein, the term "stradomer monomer" refers to a single, contiguous
peptide molecule that, when associated with at least a second stradomer monomer, forms a
polypeptide comprising at least two Fc domains (see, e.g., Figures 6A-6B, Figure 12A). While in
preferred embodiments serial stradomer are comprised of two associated stradomer monomers
(see, for example, Figures 5A, 5B, 7A, 7B, 7C, 7D), a serial stradomer may also contain three
(see Figure 11 C) or more stradomer monomers. Stradomer monomers may be associated to form
stradomers by inter-stradomer monomer linkages or they may form stradomers through self
aggregation.
                                                  27.

     [00113]    A stradomer monomer may have an amino acid sequence that will form one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen or more Fc
domains when associated with another stradomer monomer to form a stradomer. A stradomer
monomer may further have an amino acid sequence that will form one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen or more Fc partial domains when
associated with another stradomer monomer to form a stradomer.
     [00114]    The regions of stradomer monomers that will form Fc domains and Fc partial
domains in the context of a stradomer may simply be arranged from carboxy terminal to amino
terminal of successive regions of the stradomer monomer molecule (see, e.g., Figure 4A-4B).
Alternatively, the successive regions of the stradomer monomers may be linked through a
peptide sequence termed a "domain linkage" herein. The arrangement of the particular Fc
domain monomers and Fc partial domain monomers comprising a stradomer monomer is not
critical. However, the arrangement must permit formation of two functional Fc domains upon
association of two stradomer monomers.
     [00115]    In one embodiment of the stradomers of the present invention, stradomer
monomers are produced that contain at the N-terminus of the peptide an Fc domain monomer or
Fc partial domain monomer that binds strongly to itself, such as a single or two terminal IgE
CH2 domain monomers or a partial IgG3 hinge domain monomer, to create an Fc domain or an
Fc partial domain, respectively. Each of these stradomer monomers has the requisite complement
of Fc domain monomers and/or partial Fc domain monomers to bind to two Fc gamma receptors
upon formation of a stradomer. Stradomers that result from association of such stradomer
monomers are biomimetics capable of binding two or more Fc gamma receptors. In a preferred
embodiment the N-terminal Fc domain or Fc partial domain contains an additional glycosylation
site such as that which exists on the IgE CH2 domain.
     [00116]    As a clarifying example, the skilled artisan will understand that the stradomer
molecules of the present invention may be constructed by preparing a polynucleotide molecule
that encodes various combinations of Fc domain monomers and Fc partial domain monomers,
but with a combination that will form a minimum of two Fc domain monomers. Such a
polynucleotide molecule may be inserted into an expression vector, which can be used to
transform a population of bacteria. Stradomer monomers can then produced by culturing the
transformed bacteria under appropriate culture conditions. Stradomer monomers can then form
                                                28.

functional stradomers upon either self-aggregation of the stradomer monomers or association of
stradomer    monomers     using    inter-stradomer   monomer     linkages.  The present   invention
encompasses both stradomers formed through the association of stradomer monomers having
identical amino acid sequences, stradomer monomers having substantially similar amino acid
sequences, or stradomer monomers having dissimilar sequences. In the latter embodiment the
amino acid sequence of the stradomer monomers comprising a stradomer need only be of such
similarity that two or more functional Fcy receptor binding sites are formed.
    [00117]      As indicated above, an Fc domain can be functionally defined by its ability to
bind an Fey receptor. As a result, the particular amino acid sequence of an Fc domain will vary
based on the Fc partial domains that comprise the Fc domain. However, in one embodiment of
the present invention the Fe domain comprises the hinge region and a CH2 domain of an
immunoglobulin molecule. In a further embodiment the Fc domain comprises the hinge region, a
CH2 domain and CH3 domain of an immunoglobulin molecule. In a further embodiment, the Fc
domain comprises the hinge region, a CH2 domain, CH3 domain and CH4 domain of an
immunoglobulin molecule. In yet another embodiment, the Fc domain comprises the hinge
region, a CH2 domain and CH4 domain of an immunoglobulin molecule.
Domain Linkage
    [00118]      As indicated above, a "domain linkage" is a peptide linkage between Fc domain
monomers and/or Fc partial domain monomers that comprise each of the individual stradomer
monomers of the serial stradomers or stradobodies of the present invention. The domain linkage
may be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more amino acids. A
domain linkage does not occur between Fc partial domain monomers that are in their natural
sequence. That is, where linked naturally contiguous portions of Fc domain monomers are used,
such as the hinge region, CH2 domain and CH3 domain of IgG, these Fc partial domain
monomers comprise a contiguous sequence and no domain linkage between these elements is
required. In contrast, for example, when two or more Fc domain monomers or partial Fc domain
monomers are linked in a manner that is not naturally occurring to form an individual stradomer
monomer, domain linkages may be used. An example would be the linkage between two
hinge/CH2/CH3 peptides, creating an individual stradomer monomer of a stradomer comprising:
hinge/CH2/CH3/L/hinge/CH2/CH3, where "L" is the domain linkage (see, e.g., Figure 4A where
the domain linkage (not shown) occurs between the IgGI CH3 domain and the IgGI hinge). In
                                                  29.

the various cases described, the domain linkage may be one of the naturally occurring portions of
the heavy chain that joins the hinge and CH domains in the Fc domain monomer of an antibody.
Alternatively, the domain linkage may be any other amino acid sequence that provides needed
spacing and flexibility between the Fc domain monomers and partial Fc domain monomers of an
individual stradomer monomer and that allows the individual stradomer monomers to pair with
other each other to form the stradomers of the present invention.
    [00119]     The skilled artisan will understand that the identity of the domain linkage is not
particularly important as long as it permits two or more individual stradomer monomers to form
the biomimetic compounds of the present invention, and that the resulting compounds have the
ability to cross-link more than one FcyR. It is envisioned that each immunologically active
biomimetic compound will preferably contain at least one domain linkage in each stradomer
monomer of the serial stradomer or stradobody which will function to maintain the Fc domains
of the immunologically active biomimetic within a restricted spatial region and which will
facilitate FcyR activation activity, for example, by aggregating FcyRs through co-binding to the
Fc domains within the immunologically active biomimetic. Preferably, the domain linkages will
allow the same or a greater degree of conformational variability as is provided by the hinge
domain of IgG molecules. All the above linkages are well-known in the art.
Inter-Stradomer Monomer Linkage
    [00120]     A separate linkage found in the biomimetic compounds of the present invention is
the "inter-stradomer monomer linkage" that occurs between two or more individual stradomer
monomers that comprise the stradomers and stradobodies of the present invention. While the
domain linkages are short amino acid sequences that serve to link the Fc domain monomers and
partial Fc domain monomers that comprise individual stradomer monomers of the biomimetic
compounds to each other, the inter-stradomer monomer linkages serve to join two or more
individual stradomer monomers that comprise the biomimetic compounds. The inter-stradomer
monomer linkage may be any linkage capable of stably associating the individual stradomer
monomers. In some embodiments, the inter-stradomer monomer linkage may be a covalent link
between the stradomer monomers. Alternatively, the inter-stradomer monomer linkage between
stradomer monomers may be by direct chemical crosslinking. In preferred embodiments, the
stradomer monomer structures take advantage of the natural self-aggregation properties between
Fc domain monomers to create self-aggregating stradomers. In such embodiments, disulfide
                                                 30.

bonds form between the individual stradomer monomers to form the stradomers (see, e.g., Figure
5A, where inter-stradomer monomer linkages (not shown) serve to join the two individual
stradomer monomers of the stradomer). The disulfide bonds form between cysteine residues of
the Fc domain monomers that comprise the biomimetic molecules, using either cysteine residues
occurring in the natural Fc domain monomer sequence or cysteine residues incorporated into an
Fc domain monomer by site-directed mutagenesis. Such natural self-aggregation properties can
also be used to form the inter-stradomer monomer linkages between individual stradomer
monomers in stradomer multimers. Alternative embodiments include inter-stradomer monomer
linkages where disulfide bonds form between cysteine residues introduced through site-directed
mutagenesis into the amino acid sequence comprising the individual stradomer monomers.
     [00121]    As discussed above, in a preferred embodiment, the inter-stradomer monomer
linkage that forms a stradomer is a linkage that results from self-aggregation of stradomer
monomers. In one embodiment, the two stradomer monomers that comprise the stradomer are
identical peptides, such that the two individual stradomer monomers that comprise the stradomer
are identical in sequence. However, the skilled artisan will understand that other embodiments
include stradomers where the stradomer monomers differ from each other in amino acid
sequence.
     [00122]    Two stradomer monomers can form a stradomer by, for example, aligning in
parallel such that pairing takes place between identical Fc partial domain monomers in the
stradomer monomers (see, e.g., Figures 5A-B). However, the present invention also includes
embodiments where pairing occurs between non-identical Fc partial domain monomers, and
embodiments (see Figure 1IC) where pairing occurs between identical Fc partial domain
monomers in the stradomer monomers but where the alignment of the two stradomer monomers
is offset.
     [00123]    In order to control the production and self-dimerization of a stradomer monomer,
"capping regions" may be used. For example, a stradomer monomer sequence may comprise the
following Fc partial domains: IgE CH2 /IgGl hinge/IgGi CH2/IgGl CH3/IgGl hinge/IgGi
CH2/IgE CH4, (see Figure 13A) where the IgE domains serve as a cap to prevent a "zippering
effect." A zippering effect can occur when a stradomer monomer (see Figure 11 A) can auto
dimerize (see Figure 1 IB) or can align itself not as an auto-dimer but as alternating monomers in
parallel (see Figure I1). One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that a variety of Fc
                                                 31.

partial domains, such as the hinge of any immunoglobulin or the CH4 domain of IgM or IgE,
may be used alone or in combination to direct the stradomer to auto-dimerize and to prohibit the
zippering effect when desired. Other non-series structures may contain branched molecules (see
Figure 12B), two or more stradomers lined up in parallel joined by linkers such as a simple
covalent bond, peptide linkers, or non-peptide linkers (see Figures 14A and 14B).
Core Stradomer
     [00124]     A "core stradomer" is comprised of a core moiety to which are bound two or
more core stradomer units, wherein each core stradomer unit comprises at least one Fc domain,
thereby creating a biomimetic compound capable of binding two or more Fcy receptors. An Fc
fragment, Fc partial fragment, serial stradomer or cluster stradomer unit can each independently
serve as one or both (if they comprise two Fc domains) of the core stradomer units in a core
stradomer because each of these molecules contains at least one Fc domain. Thus, a core
stradomer may comprise a core moiety to which is bound at least one serial stradomer.
     [00125]     As used herein, the core moiety of a core stradomer is any physical structure to
which the core stradomer units may be linked or covalently bound. Preferred polypeptides that
may serve as the core moiety include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine serum albumin and
ovalbumin. Chemical crosslinking between such core moieties and core stradomer units (e.g., Fc
fragment, Fc partial fragment, Fc domain, serial stradomer and cluster stradomer unit) may be
achieved by means of numerous chemicals using well known techniques. Exemplary chemicals
generally suitable for use in the crosslinking include glutaraldehyde, carbodiimide, succinimide
esters (e.g. MBS, SMCC), benzidine, periodate, isothiocyanate; PEO (polyethylene)/PEG
(polyethylene      glycol)    spacers    such    as   Bis(NHS)PEO5,       DFDNB       (1,5-Difluoro-2,4
dinitrobenzene);     and Amine Reactive         homobifunctional cross-linking reagents        including
Aldehyde-Activated Dextran, Bis(Sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate,                                        Bis[2
(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)ethyl] sulfone,           Dimethyl      adipimidate-2     HC 1,     Dimethyl
pimelimidate-2        HC 1,    Dimethyl       Suberimidate-2      HC 1,    Disuccinimidyl      glutarate,
Dithiobis(succinimidyl) propionate, Disuccinimidyl suberate, Disuccinimidyl tartrate, Dimethyl
3,3'-dithiobispropionimidate-2       HCl,     3,3'-Dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidylpropionate),      Ethylene
glycol      bis[succinimidylsuccinate],        Ethylene     glycol     bis[sulfosuccinimidylsuccinate],
p-[Tris(hydroxymethyl)      phosphino] propionic acid and Tris-succinimidyl aminotriacetate. One
of skill in the art will be able to select the appropriate crosslinking chemical and conditions based
                                                    32.

upon the particular core moiety selected and the sequence of the Fc domain-contaiing
polypeptides being combined to form an immunologically active biomimetic. See, e.g., Wong,
Shan S. Chemistry of protein conjugation and cross-linking. Boca Raton: CRC Press, c1991
(ISBN 0849358868).
     [00126]    In another preferred embodiment, a joining (J) chain polypeptide may be used as
the core moiety. When a J chain is used as the core moiety, cysteine bridges may be used to
connect individual core stradomer units to form a core stradomer (See Fig. 10A-10D). In an
embodiment of a core stradomer, serial stradomers (serving as the core stradomer units)
containing a terminal IgM CH4 domain are associated with a J chain to form a core stradomer.
The inclusion of the IgM CH4 domain results in the self-aggregation of stradomers comprising
this Fc partial domain with a J chain to form a biomimetic capable of binding multiple Fc gamma
receptors. Another exemplary core stradomer is one comprising Fc domains (serving as the core
stradomer units) where the Fc domains have the structure IgG3 hinge / IgG3 CH2 / IgG3 CH3 /
IgM CH4. The component Fc domains of this molecule cannot individually bind more than one
Fc gamma receptor, but the entire structure can bind five Fc gamma receptors when the
component Fc domains associate with a J chain.
     [00127]    In another embodiment, the core moiety may be a non-polypeptide entity. A
variety of suitable compositions may be physically associated with the core stradomer units to
produce an immunologically active biomimetic. Non-toxic beads, hyperbranched polymers and
dendrimers, nanoparticles, and various compounds that are classified by the FDA as Generally
Regarded As Safe (e.g. propylene glycol, sorbitol, liposomes and silicate calcium) may be used.
See, e.g., Nanoparticulates as Drug Carriers by Vladimir P. Torchilin (Editor), Imperial College
Press (Sept. 2006) ISBN: 1860946305/ISBN-13: 9781860946301.
     [00128]    Preferred core moieties of the present invention include a bead, albumin, a
liposome, a peptide and polyethylene glycol.
Cluster Strad omer
     [00129]    A "cluster stradomer" is a biomimetic that has an octopus-like form with a central
moiety "head" and two or more "legs", wherein each leg comprises one or more Fc domain that
is capable of binding at least one Fc gamma receptor, thus creating a biomimetic capable of
binding two or more Fc gamma receptors. Each cluster stradomer is comprised of more than one
dimeric protein, each called a "cluster stradomer unit." Each cluster stradomer unit is comprised
                                                 33.

of a region that multimerizes and a "leg" region that comprises at least one functional Fc domain.
The multimerizing region creates a cluster stradomer "head" once multimerized with the
multimerizing region of another cluster stradomer unit. The leg region is capable of binding as
many Fcy receptors as there are Fc domains in each leg region. Thus a cluster stradomer is a
biomimetic compound capable of binding two or more Fey receptors.
    [00130]     The multimerizing region may be a peptide sequence that causes dimeric proteins
to further multimerize or alternatively the multimerizing region may be a glycosylation that
enhances the multimerization of dimeric proteins. Examples of peptide multimerizing regions
include IgG2 hinge, IgE CH2 domain, isoleucine zipper, and zinc fingers. The influence of
glycosylation on peptide multimerization is well described in the art (e.g., Role of Carbohydrate
in Multimeric Structure of Factor VIII/V on Willebrand Factor Protein. Harvey R. Gralnick,
Sybil B. Williams and Margaret E. Rick. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
the United States of America, Vol. 80, No. 9, [Part 1: Biological Sciences] (May 1, 1983), pp.
2771-2774;    Multimerization    and collagen binding of vitronectin is modulated by its
glycosylation. Kimie Asanuma, Fumio Arisaka and Haruko Ogawa. International Congress
Series Volume 1223, December 2001, Pages 97-101).
    [00131]     A trained artisan will recognize that a cluster stradomer unit may itself comprise a
serial stradomer (containing two or more Fc domains) along with a multimerizing region. Thus
the "legs" of a cluster stradomer may be comprised of any of the types of serial stradomers
discussed herein and/or one or more of an IgGI Fc fragment and/or an IgG3 Fc fragment and/or
a single Fc domain. One trained in the art will recognize that each of the IgGI Fc fragments and
IgG3 Fc fragment in such biomimetics may be modified to comprise partial Fc fragments from
any immunoglobulin. The monomers that comprise the cluster stradomer unit (which, as
indicated above, exists as a dimeric association of two peptides) are "cluster stradomer unit
monomers." An exemplary cluster stradomer that has been made whose cluster stradomer unit
would not bind more than one low affinity Fc gamma receptor prior to multimerization is: IgE
CH2 / IgGI hinge / IgGI CH2 / IgGI CH3.
    [00132]     One trained in the art will recognize that when a serial stradomer is used as the
"leg" of a cluster stradomer, each "leg" will be capable of binding more than one Fc gamma
receptor (as at least two Fc domains are present in a serial stradomer), thus creating a biomimetic
capable of binding more than one Fc gamma receptor. Fc partial domains, other immunoglobulin
                                                 34.

sequences, and non-immunoglobulin sequences may be placed at the termini of individual cluster
stradomer unit monomers comprising the legs to create a cluster stradomer wherein each leg has
preferred spatial proximity to increase their availability to bind one or more than one Fc gamma
receptor.
    [00133]      The multimerizing region may be a peptide sequence that causes peptides to
dimerize or multimerize and includes the IgG2 hinge, the IgE CH2 domain, an isoleucine zipper
and a zinc finger. As is known in the art, the hinge region of human IgG2 can form covalent
dimers (Yoo, E.M. et al. J. Immunol. 170, 3134-3138 (2003); Salfeld Nature Biotech. 25, 1369
 1372 (2007)). The dimer formation of IgG2 is potentially mediated through the IgG2 hinge
structure by C-C bonds (Yoo et al 2003), suggesting that the hinge structure alone can mediate
dimer formation. Thus, serial stradomers having an IgG2 hinge (and thus serving as cluster
stradomer units) will form a cluster stradomer that may comprise two serial stradomers or even
three serial stradomers.
    [00134]      The amino acid sequence of the human IgG2 hinge monomer is as follows:
ERKCCVECPPCP (SEQ ID NO: 36). The core structure of the hinge is the CX-X-C portion of
the hinge monomer. Thus, stradomer monomers of the present invention may comprise either the
complete 12 amino acid sequence of the IgG2 hinge monomer, or the four amino acid core, along
with Fc domain monomers. While the X-X of the core structure can be any amino acid, in a
preferred embodiment the X-X sequence is V-E or PP. The skilled artisan will understand that
the IgG2 hinge monomer may be comprised of any portion of the hinge sequence in addition to
the core four amino acid structure, including all of the IgG2 hinge sequence and some or all of
the IgG2 CH2 and CH3 domain monomer sequences. Specific examples of possible IgG2 hinge
IgGI Fc domain serial stradomer constructs are as follows:
                                              Table 1
N-term    H         CH2    CH3    H       CH2     CH3      H      CH2     CH3     C-term
          CXXC      1      1       1
          CXXC                     1      1       1        1      1       1
          2         2      2       1      1       1
          2         2      2       1      1       1        1      1       1
          2                        1      1       1
          2                        1      1       1        1      1       1
          2x        2      2       1      1       1
          2x        2      2       1      1       1        1      1       1
          2x        2      2       1      1       1        1      1       1       IgEhinge
          2x                       1      1       1
                                                35.

Nomenclature: H = hinge, CH2 = constant heavy domain 2, CH3 = constant heavy domain 3,
 1 = gG 1 , 2 = IgG2, X = any amino acid; 2x = two hinges in consecutive order
     [00135]     These are only a few of many examples. Any of the IgGI Fc domains can, for
example, be replaced with an IgG3 Fc domain. Additional proteins with IgG2 dimerization
domains includes IgG2-IgGl chimeric proteins with the addition of N and/or C terminal
sequences comprising IgM or IgE domain monomer sequences. These N and C terminal
sequences can be hinge regions, constant domains, or both.
     [00136]    As indicated above, leucine and isoleucine zippers may also be used as the
multimerizing region. Leucine and isoleucine zippers (coiled-coil domains) are known to
facilitate formation of protein dimers, trimers and tetramers (Harbury et al. Science 262:1401
1407 (1993); O'Shea et al. Science 243 :538 (1989)). By taking advantage of the natural
tendency of an isoleucine zipper to form a trimer, cluster stradomers may be produced using
serial stradomers comprising an isoleucine zipper. Association of three or more serial stradomers
(as cluster stradomer units) having isoleucine zippers results in the formation of cluster
stradomers having at least six Fc gamma receptor binding regions.
     [00137]    While the skilled artisan will understand that different types of leucine and
isoleucine zippers may be used, in a preferred embodiment the isoleucine zipper from the GCN4
transcriptional regulator modified as described (Morris et al., Mol. Immunol. 44:3112-3121
(2007);     Harbury    et   al.  Science    262:1401-1407    (1993))    is  used:    YTQKSLSL
SPGKELLGGGSIKQIEDKIEEILSKIYHIENEIARIKKLIGERGHGGGSNSQVSHRYPRFQSI
KVQFTEYKKEKGFILTS (SEQ ID NO:37) This isoleucine zipper sequence is only one of
several possible sequences that can be used for multimerization of Fc domain monomers. While
the entire sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:37 may be used, the underlined portion of the
sequence represents the core sequence of the isoleucine zipper that may be used in the cluster
stradomers of the present invention. Thus, stradomer monomers of the present invention may
comprise either the complete 88 amino acid sequence of the isoleucine zipper (ILZ), or the 28
amino acid core, along with one or more Fc domain monomers. The skilled artisan will also
understand that the isoleucine zipper may be comprised of any portion of the zipper in addition
to the core 28 amino acid structure, and thus may be comprised of more than 28 amino acids, but
less than 88 amino acids of the isoleucine zipper. Specific examples of possible ILZ-IgGl Fc
domain constructs are shown as follows.
                                                36.

                                              Table 2
                      H         CH2     CH3     H       CH2     CH3
                      ILZ       1       1       1
                      ILZ       1       1       1       1       1
                      ILZ       1       1       1       1       1       1
                      ILZ       1       1       1       3       3       3
Nomenclature: H = hinge, CH2 = constant heavy domain 2, CH3 = constant heavy domain 3. 1 =
IgG 1, 3 = IgG3, ILZ   = isoleucine zipper domain
     [00138]    These are only a few of many examples. Any of the IgGI domains can, for
example, be replaced with IgG3 domains. Additional proteins with ILZ domains include IgGI
chimeric proteins with the addition of N and/or C terminal sequences from other Ig molecules
like IgM or IgE. These N and C terminal sequences can be hinge regions, constant domains or
both.
Fc Fragment Stradomer
     [00139]    An "Fc fragment stradomer" is comprised of more than one Fc fragment. Under
certain circumstances attributable to post-translational modification of the Fc fragment, the Fc
fragment binds with sufficient strength to another Fc fragment to permit the formation of a
molecule that binds to more than one Fcy receptor. The post-translational modification that
permits such binding includes glycosylation and methylation. The identity of the cell line in
which the recombinant Fc fragments are produced, and conditions under which they are
produced, govern whether Fc fragments will form Fc fragment stradomers. For example, a
recombinant Fc fragment produced in a FreestyleMax CHO transient transfection cell forms
multimers that are visible on western blots, binds according to a bivalent fit on plasmon
resonance binding assay, and demonstrates biological activity in a dendritic cell assay
comparable to IVIG. In contrast, the same recombinant Fc fragment produced in a stable CHO
cell line does not form multimers of the Fc fragment on western blots, binds according to a
univalent fit on Plasmon resonance binding assay, and does not demonstrate comparable
biological activity. Thus an Fc fragment stradomer is a biomimetic compound capable of binding
two or more Fcy receptors.
     [00140]    As also used herein, the term "Fc dimer" is a dimer of Fc fragments (see Figure
2A), the term "Fc trimer" is a trimer of Fc fragments, and the term "Fc multimer" is a multimer
of Fc fragments (see Figure 2B).
                                                37.

Stradobody
     [00141]    The   present   invention  also  encompasses    stradobodies.  As used      herein,
"stradobody" refers to a molecule comprising two or more Fc domains, preferably in the context
of a stradomer (including serial stradomers, core stradomers, cluster stradomers and Fc fragment
stradomers), to which one or more Fab domains is attached (see, e.g., Figure 8A-B and 9A-B).
Thus, by virtue of such Fab domains, stradobodies have both antigen binding capacity, as well as
stradomer Fcy receptor binding activity. In some embodiments, the Fcy receptor binding activity
may be due to an ability to bind and cross-link FcyR equal to or greater than the Fc portion of a
native structure holo-antibody. Preferably the Fab portion of the stradobody comprises both a
heavy and a light chain. The variable heavy chain and the light chain may be independently from
any compatible immunoglobulin such as IgAl, IgA2, IgM, IgD, IgE, IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4,
and may be from the same or different Ig isotype, but preferably are from the same Ig isotype.
The light chains kappa or lambda may also be from different Ig isotypes. Stradobodies, like
stradomers, can bind two or more FcyRs and modulate immune function.
     [00142]    In one embodiment, the stradomers may have a Fab of an immunoglobulin linked
to an Fc hinge (H) domain of a stradomer to generate a stradobody (e.g. Figure 8A & B). In
another embodiment, the stradobody may be comprised of IgGI Fc - IgGI (hinge - CH2) (e.g.,
Fig. 9A). In other embodiments, the stradobody may be comprised of an IgGI domain and hinge,
an IgG3 domain and hinge and an IgGE domain and hinge (e.g., Figure 9B). The Fab comprises
both a heavy and a light chain as found in native immunoglobulin structures (Figure 3A-B).
     [00143]    Stradobodies will possess the antigen binding properties of the Fab portion and
the above described stradomer properties. Such a combination will serve to bind, cross-link, and
activate Fcy receptors on effector cells at a higher rate than can be accomplished by an Fc
backbone of a holo-antibody, particularly in the environment of low epitope expression (e.g. the
90% of breast cancer patients whose tumors are not classified as her/2-neu high expressors),
inducing ADCC in a higher percentage of patients. As indicated above, one or more antigen
binding Fab fragments can be added to the stradomers to form stradobodies. Preferably,
polypeptides (other than the linkages described herein) added to stradomers are not all or parts of
non-immunoglobulin polypeptides.
     [00144]    The Fab may be a chimeric structure comprised of human constant regions and
non-human variable regions such as the variable region from a mouse, rat, rabbit, monkey, or
                                                38.

goat antibody. One of ordinary skill in the art would be able to make a variety of Fab chimeric
structures for incorporation into stradobodies using methodologies currently available and
described in the scientific literature for such constructions. Thus, "humanized" stradobodies may
be designed analogous to "humanized monoclonal antibodies.
Variants and Homologs
     [00145]    The skilled artisan will understand that the stradomers and other biomimetics of
the present invention can be designed to include specific immunoglobulin Fc domains, such as
two Fc domains from IgGI (i.e., IgGI hinge/IgGI CH2/IgGl CH3/IgG1 hinge/IgGI CH2/IgGl
CH3). Such a stradomer could be constructed by first preparing a polynucleotide encoding two
IgGI Fc domain monomers (i.e., IgGI hinge monomer/IgGI                  CH2 monomer/IgGI      CH3
monomer/IgGI hinge monomer/IgGI CH2 monomer/IgGI CH3 monomer), and then expressing
stradomer monomers there from. Upon association of two such stradomer monomers a serial
stradomer having two IgGI Fc domains would be produced.
     [00146]    The stradomers and other biomimetics of the present invention can also be
designed based on the identity of specific immunoglobulin Fc partial domains that comprise the
Fc domains. For example, a serial stradomer could be produced having two Fc domains, where
the first Fc domain comprises IgGI hinge/IgG3 CH2/IgGl CH3 and the second Fc domain
comprises IgG3 hinge/IgGI CH2/IgG3 CH3.
     [00147]    It is understood that the stradomers and other biomimetic molecules disclosed
herein can be derived from any of a variety of species. Indeed, Fc domains, or Fc partial
domains, in any one biomimetic molecules of the present invention can be derived from
immunoglobulin from more than one (e.g., from two, three, four, five, or more) species.
However, they will more commonly be derived from a single species. In addition, it will be
appreciated that any of the methods disclosed herein (e.g., methods of treatment) can be applied
to any species. Generally, the components of a biomimetic applied to a species of interest will all
be derived from that species. However, biomimetics in which all the components are of a
different species or are from more than one species (including or not including the species to
which the relevant method is applied) can also be used.
     [00148]    The specific CH1, CH2, CH3 and CH4 domains and hinge regions that comprise
the Fc domains and Fc partial domains of the stradomers and other biomimetics of the present
invention may be independently selected, both in terms of the immunoglobulin subclass, as well
                                                  39.

as in the organism, from which they are derived. Accordingly, the stradomers and other
biomimetics    disclosed herein may comprise Fc domains and partial Fc domains that
independently come from various immunoglobulin types such as IgG1, Ig02, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl,
IgA2, IgD, IgE, and IgM. Similarly each Fc domain and partial Fc domain may be derived from
various species, preferably a mammalian species, including non-human primates (e.g., monkeys,
baboons, and chimpanzees), humans, murine, rattus, bovine, equine, feline, canine, porcine,
rabbits, goats, deer, sheep, ferrets, gerbils, guinea pigs, hamsters, bats, birds (e.g., chickens,
turkeys, and ducks), fish and reptiles to produce species-specific or chimeric stradomer
molecules.
     [00149]    The individual Fc domains and partial Fc domains may also be humanized. One
of skill in the art will realize that different Fc domains and partial Fc domains will provide
different types of functionalities. For example, FcyRs bind specifically to IgG immunoglobulins
and not other classes of immunoglobulins. Thus, one of skill in the art, intending to design a
stradomer with multiple Fey receptor binding capacity, would design stradomer Fc domains that
at least incorporate the well characterized Fcy receptor binding sequences of IgG, including those
in the IgG hinge region and the IgG CH2 & CH3 domains. One of ordinary skill in the art will
also understand various deleterious consequences can be associated with the use of particular Ig
domains, such as the anaphylaxis associated with IgA infusions. The biomimetics disclosed
herein should generally be designed to avoid such effects, although in particular circumstances
such effects may be desirable.
     [00150]    The present invention also encompasses stradomers comprising Fc domains and
Fc partial domains having amino acids that differ from the naturally-occurring amino acid
sequence of the Fc domain or Fe partial domain. Preferred Fc domains for inclusion in the
biomimetic compounds of the present invention have a measurable specific binding affinity to
either a holo-Fcy receptor or a soluble extracellular domain portion of an FcyR. Primary amino
acid sequences and X-ray crystallography structures of numerous Fc domains and Fc domain
monomers are available in the art. See, e.g., Woof JM, Burton DR. Human antibody-Fc receptor
interactions illuminated by crystal structures. Nat Rev Immunol. 2004 Feb;4(2):89-99.
Representative Fc domains with Fcy receptor binding capacity include the Fc domains from
human immunoglobulin G isotypes 1-4 (hIgGIq) (SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5 and 7 respectively; see
also Figure 15A-D). (See Fig. 2 of Robert L. Shields, et al. High Resolution Mapping of the
                                                 40.

Binding Site on Human IgGI for FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII, and FcRn and Design of IgGI Variants
with Improved Binding to the FcyR. J. Biol. Chem., Feb 2001; 276: 6591 - 6604). These native
sequences have been subjected to extensive structure-function analysis including site directed
mutagenesis mapping of functional sequences14. Based on these prior structure-function studies
and the available crystallography data, one of skill in the art may design functional Fc domain
sequence variants (e.g., of SEQ ID NOS: 1, 3, 5 and 7) while preserving the Fc domain's Fcy
receptor binding capacity.
     [00151]     The amino acid changes may be found throughout the sequence of the Fc domain,
or be isolated to particular Fc partial domains that comprise the Fc domain. The functional
variants of the Fc domain used in the stradomers and other biomimetics of the present invention
                                  6     7      8       9     95     96    97    98      99
will have at least about 50%,       0%,   0%,    0%,     0%,    %,     %,    %,    % or    % sequence
identity to a native Fc domain. Similarly, the functional variants of the Fc partial domains used in
the stradomers and other biomimetics of the present invention will have at least about 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% sequence identity to a native Fc partial domain.
     [00152]     The skilled artisan will appreciate that the present invention further encompasses
the use of functional variants of Fc domain monomers in the construction of Fc fragment
monomers, Fc partial fragment monomers, stradomer monomers and the other monomers of the
present invention. The functional variants of the Fc domain monomers will have at least about
       6      7     8      9      9     96     97      98       99
50%,     0%,    0%,   0%,    0%,    5%,    %,     %,      % or     % sequence identity to a native Fc
domain monomer sequence.
     [00153]     Similarly, the present invention also encompasses the use of functional variants of
Fc partial domain monomers in the construction of Fc fragment monomers, Fc partial fragment
monomers, Fc domains monomers, stradomer monomers and the other monomers of the present
invention. The functional variants of the Fc partial domain monomers will have at least about
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, o /0 97%, 98% or 99% sequence identity to a native Fc
partial domain monomer sequence.
     [00154]     The amino acid changes may decrease, increase, or leave unaltered the binding
affinity of the stradomer to the Fcy receptor. Preferably such amino acid changes will be
conservative amino acid substitutions, however, such changes include deletions, additions and
other substitutions. Conservative amino acid substitutions typically include changes within the
following groups: glycine and alanine; valine, isoleucine, and leucine; aspartic acid and glutamic
                                                   41.

acid; asparagine,    glutamine,   serine and threonine;    lysine, histidine and arginine;        and
phenylalanine and tyrosine.
     [00155]    The term "functional variant" as used herein refers to a sequence related by
homology to a reference sequence which is capable of mediating the same biological effects as
the reference sequence (when a polypeptide), or which encodes a polypeptide that is capable of
mediating the same biological effects as a polypeptide encoded by the reference sequence (when
a polynucleotide). For example, a functional variant of any of the biomimetics herein described
would have a specified homology or identity and would be capable of immune modulation of
DCs. Functional sequence variants include both polynucleotides and polypeptides. Sequence
identity is assessed generally using BLAST 2.0 (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool), operating
with the default parameters: Filter-On, Scoring Matrix- BLOSUM62, Word Size -3, E value - 10,
Gap Costs - 11,1 and Alignments -50.
     [00156]    From the above, it will be appreciated that stradomers of the present invention
include stradomers having: (a) only naturally occurring Fc domains; (b) a mixture of naturally
occurring Fc domains and Fc domains with altered amino acid sequences; and (c) only Fc
domains with altered amino acid sequences. All that is required is that stradomers containing
altered amino acid sequences have at least 25%; 30%; 40%; 50%; 60%; 70%; 80%; 90%; 95%;
96%; 97%; 98%; 99%; 99.5%; or 100% or even more of the ability of a corresponding stradomer
comprising Fc domains with naturally-occurring sequences to bind to two or more Fcy receptors.
     [00157]    The aforementioned Fcy receptor binding sites occurring in the stradomers and
stradobodies of the present invention may be altered in sequence through genetic engineering to
predictably derive binding sites with altered binding capabilities and affinities relative to a native
sequence. For example, specific residues may be altered that reduce Fc domain binding of the
biomimetic compounds to FcyRII while increasing binding to FcyRIIIa. An example of an
extensive mutagenesis based structure-function analysis for hIgG Fcy receptor binding sequences
is Robert L. Shields, et al. High Resolution Mapping of the Binding Site on Human IgGI for
FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII, and FcRn and Design of IgGI Variants with Improved Binding to the
FcyR. J. Biol. Chem., Feb 2001; 276: 6591 - 6604. Similar studies have been performed on
murine IgG Fc (mIgG Fc). Based on the structural and primary sequence homologies of native
IgG Fc domains across species, one of skill in the art may translate the extensive structure
function knowledge of hIgG Fc and mIgG Fc to rational mutagenesis of all native Fcy receptor
                                                 42.

binding site sequences in the biomimetic compounds of the present invention to design binding
sites with particular Fcy receptor specificities and binding affinities.
     [00158]    In addition to the amino acid sequence composition of native Fc domains, the
carbohydrate content of the Fc domain is known to play an important role on Fc domain structure
and binding interactions with FcyR. See, e.g., Robert L. Shields, et al. Lack of Fucose on Human
IgGI N-Linked Oligosaccharide Improves Binding to Human Fc RIII and Antibody-dependent
Cellular Toxicity. J. Biol. Chem., Jul 2002; 277: 26733 -26740 (doi:10.1074/jbc.M202069200);
Ann Wright and Sherie L. Morrison. Effect of C2-Associated Carbohydrate Structure on Ig
Effector Function: Studies with Chimeric Mouse-Human IgGI Antibodies in Glycosylation
Mutants of Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells. J. Immunol., Apr 1998; 160: 3393 - 3402.
Carbohydrate content may be controlled using, for example, particular protein expression
systems including particular cell lines or in vitro enzymatic modification. Thus, the present
invention includes stradomers and stradobodies comprising Fc domains with the native
carbohydrate content of holo-antibody from which the domains were obtained, as well as those
biomimetic compounds have an altered carbohydrate content.
     [00159]     The addition to the polypeptide chain of an Fc partial domain, a multimerization
region, or glycosylation changes may create a conformational change in the Fc domain
permitting enhanced binding of the Fc domain to an Fcy receptor. Thus, seemingly minor
changes to the polypeptide may also create a stradomer capable of binding multiple Fcy
receptors.
Partial Domains and Partial Fragments
     [00160]    The skilled artisan will further recognize that the Fc domains and Fc partial
domains used in the embodiments of the present invention need not be full-length versions. That
is, the present invention encompasses the use of Fc domain monomers and Fc partial domain
monomers lacking amino acids from the amino terminus, carboxy terminus or middle of the
particular Fc domain monomers and Fc partial domain monomers that comprise the stradomers
and other biomimetics of the present invention.
     [00161]    For example, the binding site on human IgG immunoglobulins for Fcy receptors
has been described (e.g. Radaev, S., Sun, P., 2001.       Recognition of Immunoglobulins by Fcy
Receptors. Molecular Immunology 38, 1073 - 1083; Shields, R.L. et. al., 2001. High Resolution
Mapping of the Binding Site on Human IgGI for FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII, and FcRn and Design
                                                  43.

of IgGI Variants with Improved Binding to the FcyR. J. Biol. Chem. 276 (9), 6591-6604). Based
on that knowledge, one may remove amino acids from the Fc domain of these immunoglobulins
and determine the effects on the binding interaction between the Fc domain and the receptor.
Thus, the present invention encompasses IgG Fc domains having at least about 90% of the amino
acids encompasses positions 233 through 338 of the lower hinge and CH2 as defined in Radaev,
S., Sun, P., 2001
    [00162]     Fc partial domains of IgG immunoglobulins of the present invention include all or
part of the hinge region, all or part of the CH2 domain, and all or part of the CH3 domain.
    [00163]     The IgG Fc partial domains having only a part of the hinge region, part of the
CH2 domain or part of the CH3 domain are constructed from Fc partial domain monomers.
Thus, the present invention includes IgG hinge region monomers derived from the N-terminus of
the hinge region or the C-terminus of the hinge region. They can thus contain, for example, 5, 6,
7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,
60, 61, or 62 (up to 15 for IgGl, up to 12 for IgG2, up to 62 for IgG3, up to 12 for IgG4) amino
acids of the hinge region.
    [00164]     The present invention also includes IgG CH2 domain monomers derived from the
N-terminus of the CH2 domain or the C-terminus of the CH2 domain. They can thus contain, for
example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,55,
56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,81,
82,83,84,85,86,87,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,97,98,99,                  100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105,
106, 107, 108, 109, or 110 (up to 110 for IgGI and IgG3, up to 109 for IgG2 and IgG4) amino
acids of the CH2 domain.
    [00165]     The present invention further includes IgG CH3 domain monomers derived from
the N-terminus of the CH3 domain or the C-terminus of the CH3 domain. They can thus contain,
for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,
55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,
81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104,
                                                  44.

 105, 106, or 107 (up to 106 for IgGI and IgG3, up to 107 for IgG2 and IgG4) amino acids of the
CH3 domain.
     [00166]    Fc partial domains of IgAl, IgA2 and IgD immunoglobulins of the present
invention include all or part of the hinge region, all or part of the CH2 domain, and all or part of
the CH3 domain. Moreover all or part of the CHI domain of the IgAl, IgA2, or IgD
immunoglobulin can be used as Fc partial domains.
     [00167]    The IgAl, IgA2 and IgD partial domains having only a part of the hinge region,
part of the CHI domain, part of the CH2 domain or part of the CH3 domain are constructed from
Fc partial domain monomers. Thus, the present invention includes hinge region monomers
derived from the N-terminus of the hinge region or the C-terminus of the hinge region of IgAl,
IgA2 or IgD. They can thus contain, for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,
45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, or 64 (up to 26 for IgAl,
up to 13 for IgA2, up to 64 for IgD) amino acids of the hinge region.
     [00168]    The present invention includes CH2 domain monomers derived from the N
terminus of the CH2 domain or the C-terminus of the CH2 domains of IgAl, IgA2 or IgD. They
can thus contain, for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,
50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,
76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100,
101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, or 107 (up to 102 for IgAl, up to 96 for IgA2, up to 107 for IgD)
amino acids of the CH2 domain.
     [00169]    The present invention includes CH3 domains derived from the N-terminus of the
CH3 domain or the C-terminus of the CH3 domains of IgAl, IgA2 or IgD. They can thus contain,
for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,
55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,
81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104,
105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123,
124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, or 131 (up to 113 for IgAl, up to 131 for IgA2, up to 110 for
IgD) amino acids of the CH3 domain.
                                                  45.

     [00170]    Fc partial domains of IgM and IgE immunoglobulins of the present invention
include all or part of the hinge / CH2 domain, all or part of the CH3 domain, and all or part of the
CH4 domain of these molecules. Moreover all or part of the CHI domain of the IgM and IgE
immunoglobulins can be used as Fc partial domains.
     [00171]    The IgM and IgE partial domains having only a part of the hinge CH2 domain,
part of the CH3 domain, or part of the CH4 domain are constructed from Fc partial domain
monomers. Thus, the present invention includes hinge / CH2 domain monomers derived from the
N-terminus of the hinge / CH2 domain or the C-terminus of the hinge / CH2 domain of IgM or
IgE. They can thus contain, for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,
47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61,, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72,
73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,81,82,83,84,85,86,87,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,97,98,
99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, or 112 (up to 112 for IgM, up to
 109 for IgE) amino acids of the hinge / CH2 domain.
     [00172]    The present invention includes IgM and IgE CH3 domain monomers derived from
the N-terminus of the CH3 domain or the C-terminus of the CH3 domain of IgM or IgE. They
can thus contain, for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,
50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,
76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100,
 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, or 106 (up to 106 for IgM, up to 105 for IgE) amino acids of the CH3
domain.
     [00173]    The present invention includes IgM and IgE CH4 domain monomers derived from
the N-terminus of the CH4 domain or the C-terminus of the CH4 domain of IgM or IgE. They
can thus contain, for example, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,
50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,
76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100,
 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119,
 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, or 130 (up to 130 for IgM, up to 105 for IgE)
amino acids of the CH4 domain. However, parts of the CH4 domain of IgM or IgE that include
                                                  46.

the C-terminal end of the CH4 domain will preferably be more than 18 amino acids in length,
and more preferably will be more than 30 amino acids in length, and most preferably will be
more than 50 amino acids in length.
    [00174]    From the above, it will be appreciated that different embodiments of the present
invention include stradomers containing: (a) full-length Fc domains; (b) a mixture of full-length
Fc domains and Fc partial domains; and (c) Fc partial domains. In each of these embodiments,
the stradomers may further comprise CH1 domains. As discussed herein, in each embodiment of
the stradomers of the present invention, the stradomers have the ability to bind two or more Fcy
receptors.
Preferred Embodiments of Stradomers and Stradomer Monomers
    [00175]    The following are examples of stradomer monomers of the present invention:
        1.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        2.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        3.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        4.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        5.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3
        6.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3
        7.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        8.   IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        9.   IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
        10.  IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3 -IgGI
             hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG3 CH3
        11.  IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgGI
             hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
         12. IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG3
             CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
         13. IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgGI
             hinge - IgG2 CH2 - IgG3 CH3.
         14. IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG4 hinge - IgG4 CH2 - IgG4 CH3 - IgGI
             hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3
                                                47.

     [00176]     In each of these embodiments, and the other embodiments presented herein, it will
be understood that domain linkages may be used to link the individual Fc partial domain
monomers that make up the stradomer monomers. In one embodiment, the Fc partial domain
monomers shown for each of the stradomer monomers set forth above are human Fc partial
domain monomers.
     [00177]     The present invention includes stradomers comprising two or more of the
stradomer monomers listed above. In preferred embodiments, the present invention includes
serial stradomers comprising two identical stradomer monomers provided above.
     [00178]     As indicated above, the stradomer functionality of binding more than one Fey
receptor can also be achieved by incorporating a J chain as a core moiety in a core stradomer,
similar to a natural IgM or IgA molecule. In native IgA and IgM immunoglobulins the joining (J)
chain is a 15 kDa peptide that joins the heavy and light chains of IgA and IgM antibodies
through disulfide bridges with an 18 amino acid "secretory tailpiece" of the Fc portions of the
antibodies. Braathen, R., et al., The Carboxyl-terminal Domains of IgA and IgM Direct Isotype
specific Polymerization and Interaction with the Polymeric Immunoglobulin Receptor, J. Bio.
Chem. 277(45), 4275542762 (2002).
     [00179]     Such core stradomers may be comprised of stradomer monomers containing a
naturally occurring CH4 Fc domain, preferably from IgM immunoglobulins, thereby permitting
association of the stradomers comprising such stradomer monomers to a J chain (see Figures
 1OA- 1OD). The following are examples of stradomer monomers which can self-dimerize to form
a stradomer and then be associated with a J chain to form a core stradomer composed of a
plurality (e.g., two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, fifteen, eighteen,
twenty, or more) of stradomers:
         1.    IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
               CH4 (see Figures 1OC-OD)
         2.    IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
               CH4
         3.    IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
               CH4 (see Figures 10A-OB)
         4.    IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 -IgM
               CH4
                                                    48.

         5.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
              CH4
         6.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
              CH4
         7.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgM
              CH4
         8.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 -IgM
              CH4
         9.   IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM
              CH4
         10.  IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 -IgM
              CH4
         11.  IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI hinge - IgG3
              CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgM CH4
     [00180]    In each of these embodiments, and the other embodiments presented herein, it will
be understood that domain linkages may be used to link the individual Fc partial domain
monomers that make up the stradomer monomers. In one embodiment, the Fc partial domain
monomers shown for each of the stradomer monomers set forth above are human Fc partial
domain monomers.
     [00181]    Core stradomers based on a J chain may be also be comprised of Fc fragments, Fc
partial fragments and/or Fc domains that have a CH4 Fc domain. In this example, each of the Fc
fragments, Fc partial fragments and Fc domains having a CH4 Fc domain linked to the core
moiety may contain only one Fcy receptor binding site but in the context of such a core
stradomer, forms a biologically active biomimetic containing more than one Fcy receptor binding
site. A skilled artisan will recognize that the Fc partial domains from different native
immunoglobulins can be used to generate the functional Fc fragments, Fc partial fragments and
Fc domains of such a core stradomer. The following are examples of monomers of Fc fragments,
Fc partial fragments and Fc domains which can self-dimerize and then be associated with a J
chain to form a core stradomer:
         1.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM CH4
         2.   IgG3 hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM CH4
                                               49.

         3.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM CH4
         4.   IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgM CH4
         5.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG3 CH3 - IgM CH4
         6.   IgG3 hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM CH4
         7.   IgG3 hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgM CH4
         8.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG2 CH3 - IgM CH4
         9.   IgGI hinge - IgG3 hinge - IgG3 CH2 - IgG2 CH3 - IgM CH4
         10.  IgGI hinge - IgGI CH2 - IgGI CH3 - IgE CH4 - IgM CH4
     [00182]    In each of these embodiments, and the other embodiments presented herein, it will
be understood that domain linkages may be used to link the individual Fc partial domain
monomers that make up the stradomer monomers. In one embodiment, the Fc partial domain
monomers shown for each of the stradomer monomers set forth above are human Fc partial
domain monomers.
     [00183]    It is clear from the above examples that stradomer monomers can be of differing
lengths and compositions to accomplish the goal, when associated through self-aggregation or
inter-stradomer monomer linkages to a second stradomer monomer and associated with a J chain,
producing a core stradomer containing more than one Fcy receptor binding site. The examples
are in no way limiting and one skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple other stradomer
configurations in stradomers are possible.
Fcy Receptors
     [00184]    The terms "FcyR" and "Fcy receptor" as used herein includes each member of the
Fc gamma receptor family of proteins expressed on immune cell surfaces as described in
Nimmerjahn F and Ravetch JV. Fcgamma receptors: old friends and new family members.
Immunity. 2006 Jan; 24(1):19-28, or as may later be defined. It is intended that the term "FcyR"
herein described encompasses all members of the Fc gamma RI, RII, and RIII families. Fcy
receptor includes low affinity and high affinity Fcy receptors, including but not limited to FcyRI
(CD64); FcyRII (CD32) and its isotypes and allotypes FcyRIIa LR, FcyRIIa HR, FcyRIIb, and
FcyRIIc; FcyRIII (CD16) and its isotypes FcyRIIIa and FcyRIIIb. A skilled artisan will recognize
that the present invention, which includes compounds that bind to FcyR, will apply to future
FcyRs and associated isotypes and allotypes that may not yet have been discovered.
                                                50.

     [00185]    It has been described that IVIG binds to and fully saturates the neonatal Fc
receptor ("FcRn") and that such competitive inhibition of FcRn may play an important role in the
biological activity of IVIG (e.g. Mechanisms of Intravenous Immunoglobulin Action in Immune
Thrombocytopenic Purpura. F. Jin, J. Balthasar. Human Immunology, 2005, Volume 66, Issue 4,
Pages 403-410.) Since immunoglobulins that bind strongly to Fcy receptors also bind at least to
some degree to FcRn, a skilled artisan will recognize that stradomers which are capable of
binding to more than one Fcy receptor will also bind to and may fully saturate the FcRn.
     [00186]    "Immunological activity of aggregated native IgG" refers to the properties of
multimerized IgG which impact the functioning of an immune system upon exposure of the
immune system to the IgG aggregates. Specific properties of native multimerized IgG includes
altered specific binding to FcyRs, cross-linking of FcyRs on the surfaces of immune cells, or an
effector functionality of multimerized IgG such as antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity
(ADCC), phagocytosis (ADCP), or complement fixation (See, e.g., Nimmerjahn F, Ravetch JV.
The anti-inflammatory activity of IgG: the intravenous IgG paradox. J Exp Med. 2007; 204:11
 15; Augener W, Friedman B, Brittinger G. Are aggregates of IgG the effective part of high-dose
immunoglobulin      therapy   in  adult  idiopathic  thrombocytopenic     purpura   (ITP)? Blut.
 1985;50:249-252; Arase N, Arase H, Park SY, Ohno H, Ra C, Saito T. Association with
FcRgamma is essential for activation signal through NKR-P1 (CD161) in natural killer (NK)
cells and NKl.l+ T cells. J Exp Med. 1997;186:1957-1963; Teeling JL, JansenHendriks T,
Kuijpers TW, et al. Therapeutic efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin preparations depends
on the immunoglobulin G dimers: studies in experimental immune thrombocytopenia. Blood.
2001;98:1095-1099; Anderson CF, Mosser DM. Cutting edge: biasing immune responses by
directing antigen to macrophage Fc gamma receptors. J Immunol. 2002;168:3697-3701; Jefferis
R, Lund J. Interaction sites on human IgG-Fc for Fc[gamma]R: current models. Immunology
Letters. 2002;82:57; Banki Z, Kacani L, Mullauer B, et al. Cross-Linking of CD32 Induces
Maturation of Human MonocyteDerived Dendritic Cells Via NF- {kappa}B Signaling Pathway.
J Immunol. 2003;170:3963-3970; Siragam V, Brine D, Crow AR, Song S, Freedman J, Lazarus
AH. Can antibodies with specificity for soluble antigens mimic the therapeutic effects of
intravenous IgG in the treatment of autoimmune disease? J Clin Invest. 2005; 115:155160). These
properties are generally evaluated by comparison to the properties of monomeric IgG.
                                                51.

     [00187]     "Comparable to or superior to an Fcy receptor cross-linking or an effector
functionality of a plurality of naturally-occurring, aggregated IgG immunoglobulins" as used
herein means the stradomer generates an assay value of about 70% or more of the value achieved
using IVIG. In some embodiments, the assay value is at least within the standard error range of
the assay values achieved using IVIG. In other embodiments, the assay value is 110% or higher
than that of IVIG. Assays for FcyR cross-linking are well known to those of ordinary skill in the
art (see e.g., Falk Nimmerjahn and Jeffrey Ravetch. Fcy receptors as regulators of immune
responses. Nature Reviews Immunology, advanced published on line December 7, 2007).
     [00188]    "Immune modulating activities," "modulating immune response," "modulating
the immune system," and "immune modulation" mean altering immune systems by changing the
activities, capacities, and relative numbers of one or more immune cells, including maturation of
a cell type within its cell type or into other cell types. For example, immune modulation of
immature monocytes may lead to greater populations of more mature monocytes, dendritic cells,
macrophages, or osteoclasts, all of which are derived from immature monocytes. For example,
immune cell receptors may be bound by immunologically active biomimetics and activate
intracellular signaling to induce various immune cell changes, referred to separately as
"activating immune modulation."         Blockading immune cell receptors to prevent receptor
activation is also encompassed within "immune modulation" and may be separately referred to
as "inhibitory immune modulation."
     [00189]    Modulation of maturation of a monocyte refers to the differentiation of a
monocyte into a mature DC, a macrophage, or an osteoclast. Differentiation may be modulated
to accelerate the rate of maturation and/or to increase the number of monocytes undergoing
differentiation. Alternatively, differentiation may be reduced in terms of rate of differentiation
and/or number of cells undergoing differentiation.
     [00190]    The term "isolated" polypeptide or peptide as used herein refers to a polypeptide
or a peptide which either has no naturally-occurring counterpart or has been separated or purified
from components which naturally accompany it, e.g., in tissues such as pancreas, liver, spleen,
ovary, testis, muscle, joint tissue, neural tissue, gastrointestinal tissue, or breast tissue or tumor
tissue (e.g., breast cancer tissue), or body fluids such as blood, serum, or urine. Typically, the
polypeptide or peptide is considered "isolated" when it is at least 70%, by dry weight, free from
the proteins and other naturally-occurring organic molecules with which it is naturally
                                                  52.

associated. Preferably, a preparation of a polypeptide (or peptide) of the invention is at least
80%, more preferably at least 90%, and most preferably at least 99%, by dry weight, the
polypeptide (peptide), respectively, of the invention. Since a polypeptide or peptide that is
chemically synthesized is, by its nature, separated from the components that naturally
accompany it, the synthetic polypeptide or peptide is "isolated."
     [00191]    An isolated polypeptide (or peptide) of the invention can be obtained, for
example, by extraction from a natural source (e.g., from tissues or bodily fluids); by expression
of a recombinant nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide or peptide; or by chemical synthesis. A
polypeptide or peptide that is produced in a cellular system different from the source from which
it naturally originates is "isolated," because it will necessarily be free of components which
naturally accompany it. The degree of isolation or purity can be measured by any appropriate
method, e.g., column chromatography, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, or HPLC analysis.
Pharmaceutical Compositions
     [00192]    Administration of the immunologically active biomimetic compositions described
herein will be via any common route, orally, parenterally, or topically. Exemplary routes include,
but are not limited to oral, nasal, buccal, rectal, vaginal, ophthalmic,              subcutaneous,
intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intravenous, intraarterial, intratumoral, spinal, intrathecal, intra
articular, intra-arterial, sub-arachnoid, sublingual, oral mucosal, bronchial, lymphatic, intra
uterine, subcutaneous, intratumor, integrated on an implantable device, intradural, intracortical,
or dermal. Such compositions would normally be administered as pharmaceutically acceptable
compositions as described herein. In a preferred embodiment the isolated immunologically active
biomimetic is administered intravenously.
     [00193]    The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" as used herein includes any and
all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and
absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically
active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is
incompatible with the vectors or cells of the present invention, its use in therapeutic
compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients also can be incorporated into
the compositions.
     [00194]    The immunologically active biomimetic compositions of the present invention
may be formulated in a neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically-acceptable salts include the acid
                                                53.

addition salts (formed with the free amino groups of the protein) and which are formed with
inorganic acids such as, for example, hydrochloric or phosphoric acids, or such organic acids as
acetic, oxalic, tartaric, mandelic, and the like. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can
also be derived from inorganic bases such as, for example, sodium, potassium, ammonium,
calcium, or ferric hydroxides, and such organic bases as isopropylamine, trimethylamine,
histidine, procaine and the like.
     [00195]     Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the immunologically
active biomimetic in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other
ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally,
dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile
vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from
those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable
solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum-drying and freeze-drying techniques
which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a
previously sterile-filtered solution thereof
     [00196]     Further, one embodiment is an immunologically active biomimetic composition
suitable for oral administration is provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier with or
without an inert diluent. The carrier should be assimmable or edible and includes liquid, semi
solid, i.e., pastes, or solid carriers. Except insofar as any conventional media, agent, diluent or
carrier is detrimental to the recipient or to the therapeutic effectiveness of an immunologically
active biomimetic preparation contained therein, its use in an orally administrable an
immunologically active biomimetic composition for use in practicing the methods of the present
invention is appropriate. Examples of carriers or diluents include fats, oils, water, saline
solutions, lipids, liposomes, resins, binders, fillers and the like, or combinations thereof. The
term "oral administration" as used herein includes oral, buccal, enteral or intragastric
administration.
     [00197]     In one embodiment, the composition is combined with the carrier in any
convenient and practical manner, i.e., by solution, suspension, emulsification, admixture,
encapsulation, microencapsulation, absorption and the like. Such procedures are routine for those
skilled in the art.
                                                  54.

     [00198]    In a specific embodiment, the immunologically active biomimetic composition in
powder form is combined or mixed thoroughly with a semi-solid or solid carrier. The mixing can
be carried out in any convenient manner such as grinding. Stabilizing agents can be also added in
the mixing process in order to protect the composition from loss of therapeutic activity through,
i.e., denaturation in the stomach. Examples of stabilizers for use in an orally administrable
composition include buffers, antagonists to the secretion of stomach acids, amino acids such as
glycine and lysine, carbohydrates such as dextrose, mannose, galactose, fructose, lactose,
sucrose, maltose, sorbitol, mannitol, etc., proteolytic enzyme inhibitors, and the like. More
preferably, for an orally administered composition, the stabilizer can also include antagonists to
the secretion of stomach acids.
     [00199]    Further,    the   immunologically       active  biomimetic    composition    for    oral
administration which is combined with a semi-solid or solid carrier can be further formulated
into hard or soft shell gelatin capsules, tablets, or pills. More preferably, gelatin capsules, tablets,
or pills are enterically coated. Enteric coatings prevent denaturation of the composition in the
stomach or upper bowel where the pH is acidic. See, i.e., U.S. Pat. No. 5,629,001. Upon reaching
the small intestines, the basic pH therein dissolves the coating and permits the composition to be
released to interact with intestinal cells, e.g., Peyer's patch M cells.
     [00200]    In another embodiment, the immunologically active biomimetic composition in
powder form is combined or mixed thoroughly with materials that create a nanoparticle
encapsulating the immunologically active biomimetic or to which the immunologically active
biomimetic is attached. Each nanoparticle will have a size of less than or equal to 100 microns.
The nanoparticle may have mucoadhesive properties that allow for gastrointestinal absorption of
an immunologically active biomimetic that would otherwise not be orally bioavailable.
     [00201]    In another embodiment, a powdered composition is combined with a liquid carrier
such as, i.e., water or a saline solution, with or without a stabilizing agent.
     [00202]    A specific immunologically active biomimetic formulation that may be used is a
solution of immunologically active biomimetic protein in a hypotonic phosphate based buffer
that is free of potassium where the composition of the buffer is as follows: 6 mM sodium
phosphate monobasic monohydrate, 9 mM sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate, 50 mM
sodium chloride, pH 7.0.+/- 0.1. The concentration of immunologically active biomimetic
protein in a hypotonic buffer may range from 10 microgram/ml to 100 milligram/ml. This
                                                    55.

formulation may be administered via any route of administration, for example, but not limited to
intravenous administration.
     [00203]    Further,    an  immunologically     active  biomimetic    composition  for  topical
administration which is combined with a semi-solid carrier can be further formulated into a
cream or gel ointment. A preferred carrier for the formation of a gel ointment is a gel polymer.
Preferred polymers that are used to manufacture a gel composition of the present invention
include, but are not limited to carbopol, carboxymethyl-cellulose, and pluronic polymers.
Specifically, a powdered Fc multimer composition is combined with an aqueous gel containing
an polymerization agent such as Carbopol 980 at strengths between 0.5% and 5% wt/volume for
application to the skin for treatment of disease on or beneath the skin. The term "topical
administration" as used herein includes application to a dermal, epidermal, subcutaneous or
mucosal surface.
     [00204]    Upon formulation, solutions are administered in a manner compatible with the
dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective to result in an
improvement or remediation of the symptoms. The formulations are easily administered in a
variety of dosage forms such as ingestible solutions, drug release capsules and the like. Some
variation in dosage can occur depending on the condition of the subject being treated. The person
responsible for administration can, in any event, determine the appropriate dose for the
individual subject. Moreover, for human administration, preparations meet sterility, general
safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.
     [00205]     The route of administration will vary, naturally, with the location and nature of
the disease being treated, and may include, for example intradermal, transdermal, parenteral,
intravenous, intramuscular, intranasal, subcutaneous, percutaneous, intratracheal, intraperitoneal,
intratumoral, perfusion, lavage, direct injection, and oral administration.
     [00206]     The term "parenteral administration" as used herein includes any form of
administration in which the compound is absorbed into the subject without involving absorption
via the intestines. Exemplary parenteral administrations that are used in the present invention
include, but are not limited to intramuscular, intravenous, intraperitoneal, intratumoral,
intraocular, or intraarticular administration.
     [00207]    Below are specific examples of various pharmaceutical formulation categories
and preferred routes of administration, as indicated, for specific exemplary diseases:
                                                  56.

    [00208]      Buccal or sub-lingual dissolvable tablet: angina, polyarteritis nodosa.
    [00209]      Intravenous: Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura, Inclusion Body Myositis,
Paraproteinemic      IgM     demyelinating   Polyneuropathy,      Necrotizing    fasciitis, Pemphigus,
Gangrene, Dermatomyositis, Granuloma, Lymphoma, Sepsis, Aplastic anemia, Multisystem
organ failure, Multiple Myeloma and Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance,
Chronic Inflammatory         Demyelinating    Polyradiculoneuropathy,      Inflammatory     Myopathies,
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, Myositis, Anemia, Neoplasia, Hemolytic anemia,
Encephalitis, Myelitis, Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic
virus-1, Leukemia, Multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, Asthma, Epidermal necrolysis, Lambert
Eaton myasthenic syndrome, Myasthenia gravis, Neuropathy, Uveitis, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome,
Graft Versus Host Disease, Stiff Man Syndrome, Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with
anti-Yo antibodies, paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis and sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu
antibodies,    systemic     vasculitis, Systemic    Lupus    Erythematosus,      autoimmune    diabetic
neuropathy, acute idiopathic dysautonomic neuropathy, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome,
Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron Syndrome associated with anti-/GM1,
Demyelination,      Membranoproliferative      glomerulonephritis,    Cardiomyopathy,       Kawasaki's
disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, and Evan's syndrome IM - ITP, CIDP, MS, dermatomyositis,
mysasthenia gravis, muscular dystrophy. The term "intravenous administration" as used herein
includes all techniques to deliver a compound or composition of the present invention to the
systemic circulation via an intravenous injection or infusion.
    [00210]      Dermal gel, lotion, cream or patch: vitiligo, Herpes zoster, acne, chelitis.
    [00211]      Rectal suppository, gel, or infusion: ulcerative colitis, hemorrhoidal inflammation.
    [00212]      Oral as pill, troche, encapsulated, or with enteric coating: Crohn's disease, celiac
spree, irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory liver disease, Barrett's esophagus.
    [00213]      Intra-cortical: epilepsy, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease,
Huntingdon's Disease.
    [00214]      Intra-abdominal infusion or implant: endometriosis.
    [00215]      Intra-vaginal gel or suppository: bacterial, trichomonal, or fungal vaginitis.
    [00216]      Medical devices: coated on coronary artery stent, prosthetic joints.
    [00217]      The immunologically active biomimetics described herein may be administered in
dosages from about 0.01 mg per kg to about 300 mg per kg body weight, and especially from
                                                   57.

0.01 mg per kg body weight to about 300 mg per kg body weight, and may be administered at
least once daily, weekly, biweekly or monthly. A biphasic dosage regimen may be used wherein
the first dosage phase comprises about 0.1% to about 10% of the second dosage phase.
Therapeutic Applications of Stradomers and Stradobodies
     [00218]    Based on rational design and in vitro and in vivo validations, the immunologically
active biomimetics of the present invention will serve as important biopharmaceuticals for
treating autoimmune diseases and for modulating immune function in a variety of other contexts
such as bioimmunotherapy for cancer and inflammatory diseases. Medical conditions suitable for
treatment with the immunologically active biomimetics described herein include those currently
routinely treated with hIVIG or in which hIVIG has been found to be clinically useful such as
autoimmune      cytopenias,  Guillain-Barr6  syndrome,     myasthenia    gravis, anti-Factor  VIII
autoimmune disease, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, and uveitis (See, F. G. van der Meche, P. I.
Schmitz, N. Engl. J. Med. 326, 1123 (1992); P. Gajdos et al., Lancet i, 406 (1984); Y. Sultan, M.
D. Kazatchkine, P. Maisonneuve, U. E. Nydegger, Lancet ii, 765 (1984); M. C. Dalakas et al., N.
Engl. J. Med. 329, 1993 (1993); D. R. Jayne, M. J. Davies, C. J. Fox, C. M. Black, C. M.
Lockwood, Lancet 337, 1137 (1991); P. LeHoang, N. Cassoux, F. George, N. Kullmann, M. D.
Kazatchkine, Ocul. Immunol. Inflamm. 8, 49 (2000)) and those cancers or inflammatory disease
conditions in which a monoclonal antibody may be used or is already in clinical use. Conditions
included among those that may be effectively treated by the compounds that are the subject of
this invention include an inflammatory disease with an imbalance in cytokine networks, an
autoimmune disorder mediated by pathogenic autoantibodies or autoaggressive T cells, or an
acute or chronic phase of a chronic relapsing autoimmune, inflammatory, or infectious disease or
process.
     [00219]    In addition, other medical conditions having an inflammatory component will
benefit from treatment with immunologically active biomimetics such as Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis, Huntington's     Disease, Alzheimer's     Disease, Parkinson's     Disease, Myocardial
Infarction, Stroke, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Human Immunodeficiency Virus associated
inflammation, adrenoleukodystrophy, and epileptic disorders especially those believed to be
associated with postviral encephalitis including Rasmussen Syndrome, West Syndrome, and
Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome.
                                                58.

     [00220]     The general approach to therapy using the isolated immunologically active
biomimetics described herein is to administer to a subject having a disease or condition, a
therapeutically effective amount of the isolated immunologically active biomimetic to effect a
treatment. In some embodiments, diseases or conditions may be broadly categorized as
inflammatory diseases with an imbalance in cytokine networks, an autoimmune disorder
mediated by pathogenic autoantibodies or autoaggressive T cells, or an acute or chronic phase of
a chronic relapsing disease or process.
     [00221]     The term "treating" and "treatment" as used herein refers to administering to a
subject a therapeutically effective amount of a biomimetic of the present invention so that the
subject has an improvement in a disease or condition, or a symptom of the disease or condition.
The improvement is any improvement or remediation of the disease or condition, or symptom of
the disease or condition. The improvement is an observable or measurable improvement, or may
be an improvement in the general feeling of well-being of the subject. Thus, one of skill in the art
realizes that a treatment may improve the disease condition, but may not be a complete cure for
the disease. Specifically, improvements in subjects may include one or more of: decreased
inflammation; decreased inflammatory laboratory markers such as C-reactive protein; decreased
autoimmunity as evidenced by one or more of: improvements in autoimmune markers such as
autoantibodies or in platelet count, white cell count, or red cell count, decreased rash or purpura,
decrease in weakness, numbness, or tingling, increased glucose levels in patients with
hyperglycemia, decreased joint pain, inflammation, swelling, or degradation, decrease in
cramping and diarrhea frequency and volume, decreased angina, decreased tissue inflammation,
or decrease in seizure frequency; decreases in cancer tumor burden, increased time to tumor
progression, decreased cancer pain, increased survival or improvements in the quality of life; or
delay of progression or improvement of osteoporosis.
     [00222]     The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein refers to an amount
that results in an improvement or remediation of the symptoms of the disease or condition.
     [00223]     As used herein, "prophylaxis" can mean complete prevention of the symptoms of
a disease, a delay in onset of the symptoms of a disease, or a lessening in the severity of
subsequently developed disease symptoms.
     [00224]     The term "subject" as used herein, is taken to mean any mammalian subject to
which biomimetics of the present invention are administered according to the methods described
                                                 59.

herein. In a specific embodiment, the methods of the present disclosure are employed to treat a
human subject. The methods of the present disclosure may also be employed to treat non-human
primates (e.g., monkeys, baboons, and chimpanzees), mice, rats, bovines, horses, cats, dogs,
pigs, rabbits, goats, deer, sheep, ferrets, gerbils, guinea pigs, hamsters, bats, birds (e.g., chickens,
turkeys, and ducks), fish and reptiles to produce species-specific or chimeric stradomer
molecules.
     [00225]     In particular, the biomimetics of the present invention may be used to treat
conditions including but not limited to congestive heart failure (CHF), vasculitis, rosecea, acne,
eczema, myocarditis and other conditions of the myocardium, systemic lupus erythematosus,
diabetes, spondylopathies, synovial fibroblasts, and bone marrow stroma; bone loss; Paget's
disease, osteoclastoma; multiple myeloma; breast cancer; disuse osteopenia; malnutrition,
periodontal disease, Gaucher's disease, Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, spinal cord injury, acute
septic arthritis, osteomalacia, Cushing's syndrome, monoostotic fibrous dysplasia, polyostotic
fibrous dysplasia, periodontal reconstruction, and bone fractures; sarcoidosis; osteolytic bone
cancers, lung cancer, kidney cancer and rectal cancer; bone metastasis, bone pain management,
and humoral malignant hypercalcemia, ankylosing spondylitisa and other spondyloarthropathies;
transplantation rejection, viral infections, hematologic neoplasisas and neoplastic-like conditions
for example, Hodgkin's lymphoma; non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (Burkitt's lymphoma, small
lymphocytic     lymphoma/chronic      lymphocytic       leukemia, mycosis    fungoides,    mantle    cell
lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, hairy
cell leukemia and lymphoplasmacytic leukemia), tumors of lymphocyte precursor cells,
including B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, and T-cell acute lymphoblastic
leukemia/lymphoma, thymoma, tumors of the mature T and NK cells, including peripheral T-cell
leukemias, adult T-cell leukemia/T-cell lymphomas and large granular lymphocytic leukemia,
Langerhans cell histocytosis, myeloid neoplasias such as acute myelogenous leukemias,
including AML with maturation, AML without differentiation, acute promyelocytic leukemia,
acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and acute monocytic leukemias, myelodysplastic syndromes,
and chronic myeloproliferative disorders, including chronic myelogenous leukemia, tumors of
the   central   nervous system,     e.g.,   brain tumors      (glioma, neuroblastoma,      astrocytoma,
medulloblastoma, ependymoma, and retinoblastoma), solid tumors (nasopharyngeal cancer, basal
cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the bile duct, Kaposi's sarcoma, testicular cancer,
                                                    60.

uterine, vaginal or cervical cancers, ovarian cancer, primary liver cancer or endometrial cancer,
tumors of the vascular system (angiosarcoma and hemagiopericytoma)) or other cancer.
     [00226]     "Cancer" herein refers to or describes the physiological condition in mammals
that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not
limited to carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma, sarcoma (including liposarcoma, osteogenic
sarcoma,               angiosarcoma,            endotheliosarcoma,           lymphangiosarcoma,
lymphangioendotheliosarcoma,           leiomyosarcoma,      rhabdomyosarcoma,       fibrosarcoma,
myxosarcoma, chondrosarcoma), neuroendocrine tumors, mesothelioma, chordoma, synovioma,
schwanoma, meningioma, adenocarcinoma, melanoma, and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies.
More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer (e.g. epithelial squamous
cell cancer), lung cancer including small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung, small cell lung carcinoma,
cancer of the peritoneum, hepatocellular          cancer, gastric or stomach cancer      including
gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, liver
cancer, bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, colorectal cancer,
endometrial or uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or renal cancer, prostate
cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma, anal carcinoma, penile carcinoma,
testicular cancer, esophageal cancer, tumors of the biliary tract, Ewing's tumor, basal cell
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary
carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma,
embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, testicular tumor, lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma,
epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma,
pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, melanoma,
neuroblastoma,     retinoblastoma,   leukemia,   lymphoma, multiple    myeloma,    Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia, myelodysplastic disease, heavy chain disease, neuroendocrine tumors,
Schwanoma, and other carcinomas, as well as head and neck cancer.
     [00227]     The biomimetics of the present invention may be used to treat autoimmune
diseases. The term "autoimmune disease" as used herein refers to a varied group of more than 80
diseases and conditions. In all of these diseases and conditions, the underlying problem is that
the body's immune system attacks the body itself. Autoimmune diseases affect all major body
                                                  61.

systems including connective tissue, nerves, muscles, the endocrine system, skin, blood, and the
respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. Autoimmune diseases include, for example, systemic
lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, and type 1
diabetes.
    [00228]    The disease or condition treatable using the compositions and methods of the
present invention may be a hematoimmunological process, including but not limited to
Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura, alloimmune/autoimmune thrombocytopenia, Acquired
immune     thrombocytopenia,     Autoimmune     neutropenia,  Autoimmune    hemolytic   anemia,
Parvovirus B 19-associated red cell aplasia, Acquired antifactor VIII autoimmunity, acquired
von Willebrand disease, Multiple Myeloma and Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown
Significance, Sepsis, Aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia,
hemolytic disease of the newborn, Immune-mediated neutropenia, refractoriness to platelet
transfusion, neonatal, post-transfusion purpura, hemolytic uremic syndrome, systemic Vasculitis,
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, or Evan's syndrome.
    [00229]    The disease or condition may also be a neuroimmunological process, including
but   not limited    to  Guillain-Barr6   syndrome,    Chronic  Inflammatory      Demyelinating
Polyradiculoneuropathy, Paraproteinemic IgM demyelinating Polyneuropathy, Lambert-Eaton
myasthenic syndrome, Myasthenia gravis, Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron
Syndrome associated with anti-/GM1, Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis and optic neuritis, Stiff
Man Syndrome, Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with anit-Yo antibodies, paraneoplastic
encephalomyelitis, sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu antibodies, epilepsy, Encephalitis, Myelitis,
Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1, Autoimmune
Diabetic Neuropathy, or Acute Idiopathic Dysautonomic Neuropathy.
    [00230]    The disease or condition may also be a Rheumatic disease process, including but
not limited to Kawasaki's disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, Felty's syndrome,       ANCA-positive
Vasculitis, Spontaneous Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis, Antiphospholipid syndromes, Recurrent
spontaneous abortions, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Raynaud's,
CREST syndrome, or Uveitis.
    [00231]    The disease or condition may also be a dermatoimmunological disease process,
including but not limited to Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis, Gangrene, Granuloma, Autoimmune
skin blistering diseases including Pemphigus vulgaris, Bullous Pemphigoid, and Pemphigus
                                                62.

foliaceus, Vitiligo, Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome, Scleroderma, systemic sclerosis
including diffuse and limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis, or Atopic dermatitis (especially
steroid dependent).
     [00232]     The disease or condition may also be a musculoskeletal immunological disease
process,    including but not limited to Inclusion Body Myositis, Necrotizing                 fasciitis,
Inflammatory Myopathies, Myositis, Anti-Decorin (BJ antigen) Myopathy, Paraneoplastic
Necrotic Myopathy, X-linked Vacuolated Myopathy, Penacillamineinduced                  Polymyositis,
Atherosclerosis, Coronary Artery Disease, or Cardiomyopathy.
     [00233]     The disease or condition may also be a gastrointestinal immunological disease
process, including but not limited to pernicious anemia, autoimmune chronic active hepatitis,
primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis, cryptogenic cirrhosis, Reactive
arthritis, Crohn's disease, Whipple's disease, ulcerative colitis, or sclerosing cholangitis.
     [00234]     The disease or condition may also be Graft Versus Host Disease, Antibody
mediated rejection of the graft, Post-bone marrow transplant rejection, Post-infectious disease
inflammation, Lymphoma, Leukemia, Neoplasia, Asthma, Type 1 Diabetes mellitus with anti
beta cell antibodies, Sjogren's syndrome, Mixed Connective Tissue Disease, Addison' s disease,
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome, Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, Goodpasture's
syndrome,       Graves'    disease,   Hashimoto's      thyroiditis,    Wegener's     granulomatosis,
micropolyarterits, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa or Multisystem organ failure.
     [00235]     In another embodiment, the stradomers herein described could be utilized in a
priming system wherein blood is drawn from a patient and transiently contacted with the
stradomer(s) for a period of time from about one half hour to about three hours prior to being
introduced back into the patient. In this form of cell therapy, the patient's own effector cells are
exposed to stradomer that is fixed on a matrix ex vivo in order to modulate the effector cells
through exposure of the effector cells to stradomer. The blood including the modulated effector
cells are then infused back into the patient. Such a priming system could have numerous clinical
and therapeutic applications.
Therapeutic Stradobody Applications in Oncology
     [00236]     In addition to having clinical utility for treating immunological disorders,
stradobodies have therapeutic use in cancer and inflammatory disease treatment.                    The
stradobodies may be used essentially following known protocols for any corresponding
                                                 63.

therapeutic antibody. The stradobodies will generally be designed to enhance the effect
demonstrated on an effector cell by a monoclonal antibody, such as ADCC in cancer or
decreased monocyte and DC maturation with decreased cytokine release in autoimmune disease,
and thereby potentiate the immune response against the cancer relative to that which would occur
using, for example, a source monoclonal antibody for the Fab portion of the stradobody.
     [00237]    Exemplary monoclonal antibody Fab domains from which a stradobody may be
designed includes cetuximab, rituximab, muromonab-CD3, abciximab, daclizumab, basiliximab,
palivizumab, infliximab, trastuzumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, alemtuzumab, ibritumomab
tiuxetan,    adalimumab,     omalizumab,     tositumomab,    1-131     tositumomab,   efalizumab,
bevacizumab, panitumumab, pertuzumab, natalizumab, etanercept, IGN101, volociximab, Anti
CD80 mAb, Anti-CD23 mAb, CAT-3888, CDP791, eraptuzumab, MDX-010, MDX-060, MDX
070, matuzumab, CP-675,206, CAL, SGN-30, zanolimumab, adecatumumab, oregovomab,
nimotuzumab,      ABT-874, denosumab,       AM 108,      AMC    714, fontolizumab, daclizumab,
golimumab, CNTO 1275, ocrelizumab, HuMax-CD20, belimumab, epratuzumab, MLN1202,
visilizumab,   tocilizumab,   ocrerlizumab,    certolizumab   pegol,    eculizumab, pexelizumab,
abciximab, ranibizimumab, mepolizumab, and TNX-355, MYO-029.
     [00238]    The    stradomers   and   stradobodies,   collectively    immunologically   active
biomimetics, disclosed herein have a number of further applications and uses.
Altering Immune Responses
     [00239]    The immunologically active biomimetics disclosed herein may also be readily
applied to alter immune system responses in a variety of contexts to affect specific changes in
immune response profiles. Altering or modulating an immune response in a subject refers to
increasing, decreasing or changing the ratio or components of an immune response. For example,
cytokine production or secretion levels may be increased or decreased as desired by targeting the
appropriate combination of FcRs with a stradomer designed to interact with those receptors.
Antibody production may also be increased or decreased; the ratio of two or more cytokines or
immune cell receptors may be changed; or additional types of cytokines or antibodies may be
caused to be produced. The immune response may also be an effector function of an immune cell
expressing a FcyR, including increased or decreased phagocytic potential of monocyte
macrophage derived cells, increased or decreased osteoclast function, increased or decreased
antigen presentation by antigen-presenting cells (e.g. DCs), increased or decreased NK cell
                                                 64.

function, increased or decreased B-cell function, as compared to an immune response which is
not modulated by an immunologically active biomimetic disclosed herein.
     [00240]    In a preferred embodiment, a subject with cancer or an autoimmune or
inflammatory disease has their immune response altered comprising the step of administering a
therapeutically effective amount of an immunologically active biomimetic described herein to a
subject, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the immunologically active biomimetic
alters the immune response in the subject. Ideally this intervention treats the disease or condition
in the subject. The altered immune response may be an increased or a decreased response and
may involve altered cytokine levels including the levels of any of IL-6, IL-10, IL-8, IL-23, IL-7,
IL-4, IL-12, IL-13, IL-17, TNF-alpha and IFN-alpha. The invention is however not limited by
any particular mechanism of action of the described biomimetics. The altered immune response
may be an altered autoantibody level in the subject. The altered immune response may be an
altered autoaggressive T-cell level in the subject.
     [00241]    For example, reducing the amount of TNF-alpha production in autoimmune
diseases can have therapeutic effects. A practical application of this is antiTNF-alpha antibody
therapy (e.g. REMICADE@) which is clinically proven to treat Plaque Psoriasis, Rheumatoid
Arthritis, Psoriatic Arthritis, Crohn's Disease, Ulcerative Colitis and Ankylosing Spondylitis.
These autoimmune diseases have distinct etiologies but share key immunological components of
the disease processes related to inflammation and immune cell activity. A stradomer designed to
reduce TNF-alpha production will likewise be effective in these and may other autoimmune
diseases. The altered immune response profile may also be direct or indirect modulation to effect
a reduction in antibody production, for example autoantibodies targeting a subjects own tissues,
or altered autoaggressive T-cell levels in the subject. For example, Multiple Sclerosis is an
autoimmune disorder involving autoreactive T-cells which may be treated by interferon beta
therapy. See, e.g., Zafranskaya M, et al., Interferon-beta therapy reduces CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell
reactivity in multiple sclerosis, Immunology 2007 May;121(1):29-39-Epub 2006 Dec 18. A
stradomer design to reduce autoreactive T-cell levels will likewise be effective in Multiple
Sclerosis and may other autoimmune diseases involving autoreactive T-cells.
                                                 65.

Applications in Immunological Assays
     [00242]     The immunologically active biomimetics disclosed herein may be used to perform
immunological assays for testing the immune cell functions for which the immunologically
active biomimetics were designed to modulate.
     [00243]     Signaling through    low   affinity  Fcy   receptor   pathways   requires  receptor
aggregation and cross linking on the cell surface. These aggregation and cross linking parameters
are postulated to be met through Fab binding to an antigen specific target with subsequent
interaction between the Fc region and low affinity FcyRs on the surface of responding cells. In
this context, antibodies have the potential to evoke cellular responses through two distinct
pathways: 1. Fab interaction/blocking with/of an epitope specific target and 2. Fc interactions
with FcRs. Despite this knowledge, current controls for the majority of therapeutic studies using
monoclonal antibodies employed in vivo do not adequately address the potential of Fc: Fcy
receptor interactions as contributors to observed functional effects. Multiple strategies are
currently employed to eliminate Fc:FcR interactions as confounding variables. For example,
some studies employ Scv (single chain variable regions) or Fab fragments, which retain epitope
specificity but lack the Fc region. These approaches are limited by the short half life of these
reagents and their limited potential to induce signaling. Other studies employ fusion proteins
composed of a receptor or ligand fused to an Fc fragment. While these types of approaches help
to differentiate Fab specific effects from those observed with receptor ligand interactions, they
do not effectively control for Fc mediated effects. Evaluations of antibody based therapeutics in
animal models may also employ isotype control antibodies with an irrelevant Fab binding site.
The rationale for this choice is based on presumed functional similarity between antibodies of the
same isotype regardless of their Fab binding specificity or affinity. However, this use of
irrelevant isotype controls has several fundamental flaws:
     1. If the Fab fragments of these antibodies cannot bind a ligand or antigenic epitope, it is
        likely that the Fc fragments will not stimulate signaling through low affinity FcR
        interactions because of the absence of Fcy receptor cross-linking. Therefore, observed
        functional differences between experimental and control antibodies cannot be correctly
        attributed to Fab interaction with an epitope specific target lacking a means to cross-link
        the FcyR.
                                                  66.

    2. If these isotypes are produced in cells which yield different glycoforms or different
        relative percentages of individual glycoforms than the parent antibody, binding to both
         low and high affinity FcRs will be altered, even if Fab affinity is identical.
     [00244]    While there is no perfect control to overcome this problem, one option is the use
of isotype specific stradomers produced in the same cells as the parent antibodies and given at a
dose proportional to the expression levels of the epitope targeted by the experimental antibody.
For example, the appropriate control for an epitope-specific antibody produced in rat would be a
rat isotype-specific stradomer capable of aggregating Fcy receptor on the surface of effector
cells.
     [00245]     Generally,   an immune      cell  is exposed    to an effective       amount  of an
immunologically active biomimetic to modulate an activity of an immune cell in a known way
and this immune modulation is compared to a test compound or molecule to determine if the test
compound has similar immune modulating activity.
     [00246]    In   another    embodiment,      heat  aggregated    stradomers,     and   aggregated
immunoglobulins may be used as reagents for laboratory controls in various immunological
assays herein described and known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
     [00247]    Immunological assays may be in vitro assays or in vivo assays and may involve
human      or non-human      immune    cells   using  a   species-matched      or  species-unmatched
immunologically active biomimetic. In one embodiment an immunological assay is performed
by using an effective amount of the immunologically active biomimetic to modulate an activity
of an immune cell and comparing the modulation with a modulation of an immune cell by a test
compound. The stradomer or stradobody may serve the function of a positive control reagent in
assays involving the testing of other compounds for immunological effect. The assay may
compare the effect of the subject monoclonal antibody in comparison to the stradomer for
effector cell Fcy receptor binding and functional response as measured by changes in receptor
expression level, cytokine release, and function such as by using a Mixed Lymphocyte Reaction.
In this manner, if a stradomer (which lacks the Fab) generates a response which is in part similar
to the monoclonal antibody then the monoclonal antibody's effect is, in some part, not due to
specificity of its Fab but to the general effect of binding and cross-linking more than one Fey
receptor on the effector cell. The stradobody which contains both this same stradomer and the
Fab from this same monoclonal antibody can further help distinguish the specificity of the
                                                  67.

monoclonal antibody Fab from the general effect of binding and cross-linking more than one Fey
receptor on the effector cell.
     [00248]    If the biological activity of a species-specific and isotype-specific antibody is
replicated in part or in whole by a species-specific and isotype-specific stradomer then it is clear
that Fc - Fcy receptor activity accounts for the portion of observed biological activity attributable
to the species-specific and isotype-specific stradomer. Thus species-specific and isotype-specific
stradomers are useful in assessing potential therapeutic antibodies to determine whether and to
what degree the observed biological activity is attributable either to the Fab portion of the test
antibody or to a nonspecific effect of the Fc portion of the molecule binding to and cross-linking
more than one Fcy receptor.
     [00249]    In one embodiment an isolated immunologically active biomimetic of the present
invention comprises at least one stradomer which comprises at least two Fc domains, or partial
domains thereof, from the same immunoglobulin Fc class, where the immunoglobulin Fc class is
selected from the group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4 and combinations thereof. Such
biomimetics are further capable of specifically binding to a first FcyRx1, wherein x 1 is I, II, III,
or IV and to a second FcyRx 2 , wherein x 2 is I, II, III, or IV. These biomimetics can be further
characterized as having an immunological activity comprising an Fcy receptor cross-linking or
effector functionality comparable to or superior to an Fcy receptor cross-linking or an effector
functionality of a plurality of naturally-occurring, aggregated IgG immunoglobulins.
     [00250]    In    another     embodiment      the   present   invention  includes   an    isolated
immunologically active biomimetic that comprises at least one stradomer comprising at least two
Fc domains from different immunoglobulin classes, or partial domains thereof, wherein the
biomimetic binds specifically to a first FcyRx 1 , wherein x1 is I, II, III, or IV and to a second
FcyRx 2, wherein x 2 is I, II, III, or IV. This biomimetic can be further characterized as having an
immunological activity comprising an Fcy receptor cross-linking or effector functionality
comparable to or superior to an Fcy receptor cross-linking or an effector functionality of a
plurality of naturally-occurring, aggregated IgG immunoglobulins to FcyRs.
     [00251]    In    a   further   embodiment      the  present   invention  includes  an    isolated
immunologically      active biomimetic that comprises          one or more stradomers that each
independently comprises three or more Fc domains, wherein the three or more Fc domains
comprise: a) a first Fc domain, wherein the first Fc domain comprises a Fc hinge (H) of a first
                                                    68.

immunoglobulin, b) a second Fe domain, wherein the second Fc domain comprises a constant
region 2 (CH2) of a second immunoglobulin, wherein the second Fc domain is capable of
binding specifically to a FcyRx1 , wherein x1 is I, II , III, or IV; c) a third Fc domain, wherein the
third Fc domain comprises a constant region 3 (CH3) of a third immunoglobulin, wherein the
third Fc domain is capable of binding specifically to an FcyRx 2, wherein x 2 is I, II     , III, or IV.
These biomimetics may optionally comprise a fourth Fc domain, wherein the fourth Fc domain
comprises of a constant region 4 (CH4) of a fourth immunoglobulin IgM. With this molecule the
Fc hinge may contain at least one cysteine.
     [00252]    In  yet another    embodiment       the present     invention    includes an isolated
immunologically active biomimetic that comprises: a) a first Fc domain or Fc partial domain
thereof, wherein the first Fc domain comprises a Fc hinge (H) domain from a first
immunoglobulin, wherein the Fc hinge domain comprises at least one cysteine, wherein the first
Fc domain contributes to binding specificity to a FcyRx, wherein x is I, II , III, or IV; and at least
one of: i) a second Fc domain or partial domain thereof, wherein the second Fc domain
comprises a constant region 2 (CH2) from a second immunoglobulin which may or may not be
the same as the first immunoglobulin, wherein the second Fc domain contributes to binding
specificity to a FcyRx, wherein x is I, II ,or III, IV; and, optionally, and ii) a third Fc domain or
partial domain thereof, wherein the third Fc domain comprises a constant region 3 (CH3) from a
third immunoglobulin, wherein the third Fc domain contributes to binding specificity to an
FcyRx, wherein x is I, II , III, or IV; and b), optionally, a fourth Fc domain or partial domain
thereof, wherein the fourth Fc domain specificity a constant region 4 (CH4) from an IgM
immunoglobulin.
     [00253]    In another embodiment, the isolated immunologically active biomimetic is a
stradomer wherein the immunoglobulin source of the Fc domains are the same or different and
include IgA isotypes, IgG isotypes, IgD, IgE, and IgM. Another stradomer embodiment is an
isolated immunologically active biomimetic comprising a secretory signal sequence.
     [00254]    In one preferred embodiment the therapeutically effective amount of the isolated
immunologically active biomimetics of the present invention is an amount sufficient to permit
binding of the biomimetics to two or more FcyRx, wherein x is I, II, III, or IV, on the surface of
an immune cell, thereby causing the FcyRx to aggregate. The immune cell may be any immune
effector cell such as a monocyte, a dendritic cell, a macrophage, an osteoclast, or an NK cell. The
                                                  69.

immune effector cell's maturation may be modulated by the immunologically active biomimetic.
The ratio of FcyR Ila to FcyRIIb may also become altered on the immune cell. The immune cell
may be located in the plasma, bone marrow, gut, bone, lymphoid tissue, thymus, brain, a site of
infection or a tumor. The functional activity of a macrophage, dendritic cell, osteoclast, or NK
cell may be modulated.
     [00255]    The therapeutically effective amount of the isolated immunologically active
biomimetic described herein above may be administered ex vivo to an immune cell to generate a
treated immune cell followed by the step of infusing the treated immune cell into the subject.
The treated immune cell may be a dendritic cell, macrophage, osteoclast or a monocyte.
     [00256]    Additional immunotherapy may be given together with any of the isolated
immunologically active biomimetics described herein in a therapeutically effective amount to the
subject. The additional immunotherapy may include, for example, one or more of a co
stimulatory molecule, a monoclonal antibody, a polyclonal antibody, a fusion protein, a
biospecific antibody, a cytokine, an immunologically recognized antigen, a small molecule anti
cancer agent or anti-proliferative agent. The additional immunotherapy may be administered
concurrently with or separately from the administration of the immunologically active
biomimetic.
     [00257]    Cytokine (including those listed above) levels can be altered by for, example,
administering one or more cytokines of interest, one or more other cytokines that modulate the
level of the one or more cytokines of interest, and/or antibodies (of any of the types and classes
recited herein) specific for one or more of any of the above two categories of cytokines.
     [00258]    The immunologically active biomimetics described herein may be used to
modulate expression of co-stimulatory molecules from an immune cell, including a dendritic
cell, a macrophage, an osteoclast, a monocyte, or an NK cell or to inhibit in these same immune
cells differentiation, maturation, or cytokine secretion, including interleukin-12 (IL-12), or of
increasing cytokine secretion, including interleukin-10 (IL-10), or interleukin-6 (IL-6). A skilled
artisan may also validate the efficacy of an immunologically active biomimetic by exposing an
immune cell to the immunologically active biomimetic and measuring modulation of the immune
cell function, wherein the immune cell is a dendritic cell, a macrophage, an osteoclast, or a
monocyte. In one embodiment the immune cell is exposed to the immunologically active
biomimetic in vitro and further comprising the step of determining an amount of a cell surface
                                                70.

receptor or of a cytokine production, wherein a change in the amount of the cell surface receptor
or the cytokine production indicates a modulation of the immune cell function. In another
embodiment the immune cell is exposed to the immunologically active biomimetic in vivo in a
model animal for an autoimmune disease further comprising a step of assessing a degree of
improvement in the autoimmune disease.
     [00259]    "Capable of specifically binding to a FcyRx" as used herein refers to binding to an
FcyR, such as FcyRIII. Specific binding is generally defined as the amount of labeled ligand
which is displaceable by a subsequent excess of unlabeled ligand in a binding assay. However,
this does not exclude other means of assessing specific binding which are well established in the
art (e.g., Mendel CM, Mendel DB, 'Non-specific' binding. The problem, and a solution.
Biochem J. 1985 May 15;228(1):269-72). Specific binding may be measured in a variety of ways
well known in the art such as surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology (commercially
available through BIACORE@) to characterize both association and dissociation constants of the
immunologically active biomimetics (Asian K, Lakowicz JR, Geddes C. Plasmon light scattering
in biology and medicine: new sensing approaches, visions and perspectives. Current Opinion in
Chemical Biology 2005, 9:538-544).
Methods Employing Fixed Fc
     [00260]    In order to understand the role of Fc: Fc gamma receptor (FcyR, the Fc receptor
for IgG Fc) interactions and the importance to IVIG function of its Fc being biologically
immobilized within an immunoglobulin, we compared the effects of IVIG with both a fixed form
of a recombinant IgGI Fc fragment (rFCF) and a soluble form of a recombinant IgGI Fc
fragment (sFc) containing the hinge-CH2-CH3 domains on the function of monocytes during the
process of differentiation from monocytes to immature dendritic cells (iDC).
     [00261]    Exposure of monocytes cultured in granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating
factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin-4 (IL-4), to immobilized rFCF and to immobilized IVIG, but
not low dose soluble IVIG, enhanced CD86 expression, delayed the expression of CDl Ic, and
suppressed the expression of CDla on the cells. Furthermore, these changes are likely not
secondary to non-specific protein immobilization of the rFCF on plastic, as soluble heat
aggregated (sHA) IVIG, sHA rFCF or high dose IVIG (recognized to contain multimeric Fes) ,
induced changes similar to those observed with immobilized rFCF.
                                                71.

     [00262]      Taken in concert, our data indicate that exposure of iDC to IVIG immobilized on
the surface of a solid, semi-solid, or gelatinous substrate results in a unique population of DC's
(high CD86, low CDla), capable of orchestrating immune tolerance, and that immobilized
molecules that include the functional portion of immunoglobulin G (IgG) Fc fragments can be
useful as mimetics of IVIG for the treatment of local and systemic inflammation, as well as a
wide variety of other pathological conditions that are, directly or indirectly, mediated by
monocyte derived cells (MDC) such as iDC. Moreover, immobilizing the functional portion of
IgG Fc on devices, described herein as "coating devices", that are implanted into the bodies or
attached to the bodies of animals (e.g., human patients) with molecules containing the functional
portion of IgG Fc fragment can lessen, if not prevent, inflammatory responses to such devices.
     [00263]      The invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a monocyte-derived
cell (MDC). The method includes contacting the cell with a composition comprising a substrate
with an Fc reagent bound thereto. The contacting can be in vitro, in vivo, or ex vivo.
Alternatively, the cell can be in an animal. The animal can be one that has, or is at risk of
developing, a monocyte derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC). The MDC can be, for
example, a dendritic cell, a macrophage, a monocyte, or an osteoclast.
     [00264]      The invention also provides a method of treatment or prophylaxis. The method
that includes administering to an animal a composition containing a substrate having an Fc
reagent bound to it, the animal being one that has or is at risk of developing a MDCMC.
     [00265]      As used herein, the term "monocyte-derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC)"
refers to a pathologic condition that is directly or indirectly, partially or wholly, due to the
activity of, or factors produced by, monocyte-derived cells. Monocytederived cells include, but
are not limited to, monocytes, macrophages, interdigitating dendritic cells (generally referred to
herein as "dendritic cells" comprising dendritic-like cells and follicular dendritic-like cells)
(mature and immature), osteoclasts, microglia-like cells, monocyte derived insulin-producing
islet-like cells, monocyte-derived immature mast cells and monocyte-derived microparticles.
     [00266]      With respect to methods using fixed Fc, the term "Fc reagent" refers to any
molecule, or molecular complex, that includes one or more (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15,
18, 20, or more) functional portions of an immunoglobulin Ig (IgG) Fc fragment. The Fc
fragment of IgG consists of the C-terminal portions of the two IgG heavy chains of an IgG
molecule linked together and consists of the hinge regions, the CH2 domains, and the CH3
                                                  72.

domains of both heavy chains linked together. The "functional portion of the IgG Fc fragment"
consists of the hinge regions, the CH2 domains, and optionally, all or some (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, or 49) of the first 50 (from the N
terminus) amino acids of the CH3 domains, of both heavy chains linked together. In humans, (a)
the IgGI hinge region contains 15 amino acids, the CH2 domain contains 110 amino acids, and
the CH3 domain contains 106 amino acids; (b) the IgG2 hinge region contains 12 amino acids,
the CH2 domain contains 109 amino acids, and the CH3 domain contains 107 amino acids; (c)
the IgG3 hinge region contains 62 amino acids, the CH2 domain contains 104 amino acids, and
the CH3 domain contains 106 amino acids; and (d) the IgG4 hinge region contains 12 amino
acids, the CH2 domain contains 109 amino acids, and the CH3 domain contains 107 amino acids.
    [00267]     As in wild-type IgG molecules, in the above-described Fc reagents the two
polypeptide chains derived from IgG heavy chains are generally, but not necessarily, identical.
Thus, an Fc reagent can be, without limitation, a whole IgG molecule, a whole IgG molecule
linked to a non-immunoglobulin derived polypeptide, an IgG Fc fragment, an IgG Fc fragment
linked to a non-immunoglobulin derived polypeptide, a functional portion of an IgG Fc
fragment, a functional portion of an IgG Fc fragment linked to a nonimmunoglobulin derived
polypeptide or multimers (e.g., dimers, trimers, tetramers, pentamers, hexamers, heptamers,
octamers, nonamers, or decamers) of any of these. Fc reagents can also be the above-described
stradomers and stradobodies provided that they fall within the definition of a Fc reagent above.
    [00268]     In the fixed Fcy, immunoglobulin heavy chain components of the Fc reagents can
have wild-type amino acid sequences or they can be wild-type amino acid sequences but with not
more than 20 (e.g., not more than: 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1)
amino acid substitutions. Such substitutions are preferably, but not necessarily, conservative
substitutions. Conservative changes typically include changes within the following groups:
glycine and alanine; valine, isoleucine, and leucine; aspartic acid and glutamic acid; asparagine,
glutamine, serine and threonine; lysine, histidine and arginine; and phenylalanine and tyrosine.
    [00269]     An "Fc reagent" of the invention has least 25% (e.g., at least: 30%; 40%; 50%;
60%; 70%; 80%; 90%; 95%; 98%; 99%; 99.5%; or 100% or even more) of the ability of the IgG
molecule from which the IgG heavy chain components of the Fc reagent were derived (the
reference IgG molecule) to bind to an Fc receptor of interest. Where an "Fc reagent" has heavy
                                                 73.

chain components derived from more than one type of IgG molecule, the reference IgG molecule
is the one that binds with the greatest avidity to the relevant Fc receptor of interest.
     [00270]     As used herein "fixed Fc" refers to an Fc reagent that is bound to a "substrate" as
defined below. The terms "fixed Fc," "bound Fc" and "stabilized Fc" are synonymous terms.
Fixed Fc is comprised of the functional portion of Fc (including but not limited to any
polypeptide that includes the functional portion of Fc) attached to a substrate. Fixed Fc includes,
for example, direct binding as well as indirect binding through polymers of Fc to substrate;
incorporation of the full IgG Fc in isolation; incorporation of only the functional domains of IgG
Fc; or incorporation of the full IgG Fc or functional domains of IgG Fc as part of a larger
polypeptide such as an antibody, a stradomer, or a stradobody.
     [00271]     As applied to fixed Fc, the term "substrate" refers to a solid, semi solid, or
gelatinous object. The substrate can be implanted in, or attached (or adhered) to the surface of,
the body of an animal. The substrates can include, for example, liquid or gaseous components
but at least a portion of the substrate is solid, semi-solid, or gelatinous. Thus, a substrate can be a
substance that is substantially insoluble in an aqueous solvent but soluble in a non-aqueous
solvent. Such substances include lipids (e.g., phospholipids), fatty acids, and other fat-soluble,
aqueous solvent-insoluble compounds. From this, it will be clear that substrates include
liposomes. The substrate may be porous or non-porous. In certain embodiments, the substrate is
inert to the surface and/or body to which it is implanted, attached, or adhered.
     [00272]     The substrate can contain or be made of a synthetic polymer, e.g., nylon, teflon,
dacron, polyvinyl chloride, PEU (poly (ester urethane)), PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene), PMMA
(methyl methacrylate) PEEK, thermoplastic elastomers, radiopaque polymers, polyethersulfone,
silicons, polycarbonates,     polyurethanes, polyisobutylene         and its copolymers, polyesters,
polyolefins, polyisobutylene, ethylenealphaolefin copolymers, acrylic polymers and copolymers,
vinyl halide polymers and copolymers such as polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl ethers, polyvinyl
methyl     ether, polyvinylidene    halides,   polyvinylidene      fluoride, polyvinylidene    chloride,
polyacrylonitrile,   polyvinyl   ketones, polyvinyl      aromatics,     polystyrene, polyvinyl    esters,
polyvinyl acetate, copolymers of vinyl monomers, copolymers of vinyl monomers and olefins,
ethylene-methyl     methacrylate    copolymers,     acrylonitrile-styrene   copolymers, ABS      resins,
ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, polyamides, Nylon 66, polycaprolactone, alkyd resins,
polyoxyethylenes, polyimides, polyethers, epoxy resins, rayon-triacetate, cellulose, cellulose
                                                    74.

acetate, cellulose butyrate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellophane, cellulose nitrate, cellulose
propionate, cellulose ethers, carboxymethyl           cellulose, collagens,    chitin, polylactic   acid,
polyglycolic acid, polylactic acid-polyethylene oxide copolymers, polysiloxanes, substituted
polysiloxanes, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers, polyolefin elastomers, and EPDM rubbers, and
combinations thereof.
     [00273]     The substrate can also contain or be made of a metal or a metal alloy, e.g.,
stainless steel, platinum, iridium, titanium, tantalum, nickel-titanium alloy, or cobalt chromium
alloy. Moreover, the substrate can include or be an animal tissue or an animal tissue product,
e.g., a tissue or organ graft. The animal tissue can be, for example, bone (e.g., osteogenic bone)
or cartilage. Furthermore, the substrate can contain a protein, e.g., collagen or keratin. The
substrate can also be or contain a tissue matrix, e.g., an acellular tissue matrix. Particulate and
non-particulate acellular matrices are described in detail in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
5,336,616 and 6,933,326, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety. The substrate can also be or include an animal cell (e.g., tissue repair cells such as
fibroblasts; mesenchymal stem cells) and it can be, for example, a hair transplant plug. The
substrate can contain or be a polysaccharide, e.g., agarose. It can also contain or be a salt,
preferably a relatively insoluble salt, e.g., calcium sulfate. The substrate can be a gel or cream.
Moreover, it can contain silicon or silastic. Substrates can also contain a natural fiber, e.g., silk,
cotton, or wool.
     [00274]     In addition, the substrate can be an implantable medical device. It can be, for
example, a stent (e.g., a vascular stent such as a coronary artery stent; an airway stent such as an
endotracheal or nasal stent; a gastrointestinal stent such a biliary or pancreatic stent; or a urinary
stent such as a ureteral stent) or a surgical suture (e.g., a braid silk, chromic gut, nylon, plastic, or
metal suture) or a surgical clip (e.g., an aneurism clip). The substrate can be, for example, an
artificial hip, an artificial hip joint, an artificial knee, an artificial knee joint, an artificial
shoulder, an artificial shoulder joint, an artificial finger or toe joint, a bone plate, a bone dowel, a
bone non-union implant, an intervertebral disk implant, bone cement, or a bone cement spacer. It
can also be an arterial-venous shunt, an implantable wire, a pacemaker, an artificial heart, a heart
assist device, a cochlear implant, an implantable defibrillator, a spinal cord stimulator, a central
nervous system stimulator, or a peripheral nerve implant. Other substrates are dental prostheses
or dental crowns.
                                                    75.

     [00275]    In other embodiments, the substrate can be a large vessel embolic filtering device
or cage, a percutaneous device, a dermal or sub-mucosal patch, or an implantable drug delivery
device. The substrate can also be a large blood vessel graft, wherein the blood vessel is, for
example, a carotid artery, a femoral artery, or an aorta. Moreover, the substrate can be a sub
dermal implant, a corneal implant, an intraocular lens, or a contact lens.
     [00276]     The substrate can be in the form of a sheet, a bead, a mesh, a powder particle, a
thread, a bead, or a fiber. It can also include or be a solid, a semi-solid or a gelatinous substance.
     [00277]    Polymers useful in the invention are preferably those that are biostable,
biocompatible, particularly during insertion or implantation of the device into the body, and
avoid irritation to body tissue.
     [00278]    Fc reagents can be coated (i.e., fixed or stabilized) onto substrates in any of a
variety of manners. For example, they can be coated directly on the surface of substrates where
they remain attached by, for example, hydrophobic interactions. Below are described a few other
methodologies ((a) - (e)) involving the use of polymers:
         (a)     The Fc reagent is mixed with a miscible polymer blend which is then layered on
to the surface of the implantable synthetic material, thereby stabilizing the Fc reagent. Monomers
routinely used in the art to make polymer blends include PLMA [poly(lauryl methacrylate)];
PEG [polyethylene glycol], PEO [polyethylene oxide]; the alkyl functionalized methacrylate
polymers PMMA, PEMA. PPMA, and PBMA; itaconates; fumarates; and styrenics.
         (b)    A polymeric undercoat layer or a nanometer dimension film is adhered to the
substrate surface and then the Fc reagent is adhered to the polymeric undercoat layer or
nanometer dimension film, thereby stabilizing the F reagent.
         (c)    A thin film of a polymer monomer is applied to the implantable substrate surface
and the monomer is then caused to polymerize Such monomers include, for example, Methane,
Tetrafluorethylene, Benzene, Methanol, Ethylene oxide, Tetraglyme, Acrylic acid, Allylamine,
Hydroxyethyl methacrylate, N-vinyl pyrrolidone, and mercaptoethanol. The Fc reagent is then
attached to the resulting monomer.
         (d)     The substrate is coated with a protein such as protein A or albumin which attaches
to the Fc reagent, thereby stabilizing Fc to the surface of the substrate.
         (e)    The Fc reagent can be tagged with a chain of hydrophobic amino acids that bind
to implantable synthetic materials and cause the stabilized Fc to orient uniformly.
                                                   76.

    [00279]      The methods of the invention can be applied to any animal species and the IgG
molecules from which the IgG-derived portions of Fc reagents are made can be from any animal
species. Naturally, relevant animal species are those in which IgG or IgG-like molecules occur.
Generally the species to which the methods are applied and the species from which the IgG
derived portions of the Fc reagents used in the methods are the same. However, they are not
necessarily the same. Relevant animal species are preferably mammals and these include,
without limitation, humans, non-human primates (e.g., monkeys, baboons, and chimpanzees),
horses, bovine animals (e.g., bulls, cows, or oxen), pigs, goats, sheep, dogs, cats, rabbits, gerbils,
hamsters, rats, and mice. Non-mammalian species include, for example, birds (e.g., chickens,
turkeys, and ducks) and fish.
    [00280]      The terms "treating", "treatment", and "prophylaxis" have the same meaning
using fixed Fc as described above for stradomers and stradobodies.
    [00281]     Where the fixed Fc are implantable devices coated with Fc reagents, they can be
implanted in, attached to, or adhered to relevant internal organs or tissue or body surfaces of
relevant subjects using methods well known in the art. Where they are formulated as, for
example, suspensions, powders, they can be formulated and administered as described above for
stradomers and stradobodies.
    [00282]      The fixed Fc reagents of the present invention may be used to treat or prevent
conditions including but not limited to cancer, congestive heart failure (CHF), vasculitis, rosecea,
acne, eczema,      myocarditis   and   other conditions      of the myocardium,     systemic    lupus
erythematosus, diabetes, spondylopathies, synovial fibroblasts, and bone marrow stroma; bone
loss; Paget's disease, hypertrophic bone formation;; disuse osteopenia; malnutrition, periodontal
disease, Gaucher's disease, Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, spinal cord injury, acute septic
arthritis, osteomalacia, Cushing's syndrome, monoostotic fibrous dysplasia, polyostotic fibrous
dysplasia, periodontal reconstruction, and bone fractures, bone pain management, and humoral
malignant      hypercalcemia,    ankylosing      spondylitis   and  other   spondyloarthropathies;
transplantation rejection, and viral infections.
    [00283]     All autoimmune diseases may be in part or in whole an MDCMD. The term
"autoimmune disease" as used herein refers to a varied group of more than 80 chronic illnesses.
In all of these diseases, the underlying problem is that the body's immune system attacks the
body itself. Autoimmune diseases affect all major body systems including connective tissue,
                                                   77.

nerves, muscles, the endocrine system, skin, blood, and the respiratory and gastrointestinal
systems.
     [00284]    The autoimmune disease or condition may be a hematoimmunological process,
including but not limited to Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura, alloimmune/autoimmune
thrombocytopenia,      Acquired    immune     thrombocytopenia,     Autoimmune       neutropenia,
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Parvovirus B 19-associated red cell aplasia, Acquired antifactor
VIII autoimmunity, acquired von Willebrand disease, Multiple Myeloma and Monoclonal
Gammopathy of Unknown Significance, Sepsis, Aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia,
Diamond-Blackfan anemia, hemolytic disease of the newborn, Immune-mediated neutropenia,
refractoriness to platelet transfusion, neonatal, post-transfusion purpura, hemolytic uremic
syndrome, systemic Vasculitis, Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, or Evan's syndrome.
     [00285]    The autoimmune disease or condition may be a neuroimmunological process,
including but not limited to Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, Chronic Inflammatory         Demyelinating
Polyradiculoneuropathy, Paraproteinemic IgM demyelinating Polyneuropathy, Lambert-Eaton
myasthenic syndrome, Myasthenia gravis, Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron
Syndrome associated with anti-/GM1, Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis and optic neuritis, Stiff
Man Syndrome, Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with anti-Yo antibodies, paraneoplastic
encephalomyelitis, sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu antibodies, epilepsy, Encephalitis, Myelitis,
Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1, Autoimmune
Diabetic Neuropathy, or Acute Idiopathic Dysautonomic Neuropathy.
     [00286]    The autoimmune disease or condition may be a Rheumatic disease process,
including but not limited to Kawasaki's disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, Felty's syndrome, ANCA
positive Vasculitis, Spontaneous Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis, Antiphospholipid syndromes,
Recurrent spontaneous abortions, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis,
Raynaud's, CREST syndrome, or Uveitis.
     [00287]    The autoimmune disease or condition may be a dermatoimmunological disease
process, including but not limited to Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis, Gangrene, Granuloma,
Autoimmune skin blistering diseases including Pemphigus vulgaris, Bullous Pemphigoid, and
Pemphigus foliaceus, Vitiligo, Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome, Scleroderma, systemic
sclerosis including diffuse and limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis, or Atopic dermatitis
(especially steroid dependent).
                                               78.

     [00288]     The autoimmune disease or condition may be a musculoskeletal immunological
disease process, including but not limited to Inclusion Body Myositis, Necrotizing fasciitis,
Inflammatory Myopathies, Myositis, Anti-Decorin (BJ antigen) Myopathy, Paraneoplastic
Necrotic Myopathy, X-linked Vacuolated Myopathy, Penacillamine-induced Polymyositis,
Atherosclerosis, Coronary Artery Disease, or Cardiomyopathy.
     [00289]     The autoimmune disease or condition may be a gastrointestinal immunological
disease process, including but not limited to pernicious anemia, autoimmune chronic active
hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis,         cryptogenic
cirrhosis, Reactive arthritis, Crohn's disease, Whipple's disease, ulcerative colitis, or sclerosing
cholangitis.
     [00290]     The autoimmune disease or condition may be Graft Versus Host Disease,
Antibody-mediated rejection of the graft, Post-bone marrow transplant rejection, Post-infectious
disease inflammation, Lymphoma, Leukemia, Neoplasia, Asthma, Type 1 Diabetes mellitus with
anti-beta cell antibodies, Sjogren's syndrome, Mixed Connective Tissue Disease, Addison' s
disease,   Vo     gt-Koyanagi-Harada    Syndrome,     Membranoproliferative    glomerulonephritis,
Goodpasture's syndrome, Graves' disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Wegener's granulomatosis,
micropolyarterits, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa or Multisystem organ failure.
     [00291]     "Cancer" herein refers to or describes the physiological condition in mammals
that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not
limited to carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma, sarcoma (including liposarcoma, osteogenic
sarcoma,      angiosarcoma,      endotheliosarcoma,     lymphangiosarcoma,       lymphangioendo
theliosarcoma,       leiomyosarcoma,      rhabdomyosarcoma,      fibrosarcoma,       myxosarcoma,
chondrosarcoma,), osteoclastoma, neuroendocrine tumors, mesothelioma, chordoma, synovioma,
schwanoma, meningioma, adenocarcinoma, melanoma, and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies.
More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer (e.g. epithelial squamous
cell cancer), lung cancer including small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung, small cell lung carcinoma,
cancer of the peritoneum, hepatocellular         cancer, gastric or stomach cancer         including
gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, liver
cancer, bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, rectal cancer, colorectal cancer,
endometrial or uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or renal cancer, prostate
                                                79.

cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma, anal carcinoma, penile carcinoma,
testicular cancer, esophageal cancer, tumors of the biliary tract, Ewing's tumor, basal cell
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary
carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma,
embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, testicular tumor, lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma,
epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma,
pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, melanoma,
neuroblastoma,    retinoblastoma,   leukemia,    lymphoma, multiple     myeloma,    Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia, myelodysplastic disease, heavy chain disease, neuroendocrine tumors,
Schwanoma, and other carcinomas, head and neck cancer, myeloid neoplasias such as acute
myelogenous leukemias, including AML with maturation, AML without differentiation, acute
promyelocytic leukemia, acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and acute monocytic leukemias,
myelodysplastic    syndromes,   and chronic myeloproliferative      disorders,  including chronic
myelogenous leukemia, tumors of the central nervous system, e.g., brain tumors (glioma,
neuroblastoma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, ependymoma, and retinoblastoma), solid tumors
(nasopharyngeal cancer, basal cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, cancer of the bile duct,
Kaposi's sarcoma, testicular cancer, uterine, vaginal or cervical cancers, ovarian cancer, primary
liver cancer or endometrial cancer, tumors of the vascular system (angiosarcoma and
hemagiopericytoma),     hematologic neoplasias and neoplastic-like conditions for example,
Hodgkin's lymphoma; non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (Burkitt's lymphoma, small lymphocytic
lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mycosis fungoides, mantle cell lymphoma, follicular
lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia and
lymphoplasmacytic leukemia), tumors of lymphocyte precursor cells, including B-cell acute
lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma,        and T-cell     acute  lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma,
thymoma, tumors of the mature T and NK cells, including peripheral T-cell leukemias, adult T
cell leukemia/T-cell lymphomas and large granular lymphocytic leukemia, osteolytic bone
cancers, and bone metastasis.
     [00292]    As used herein, a subject "at risk of developing a monocyte-derived cell mediated
disease (MDCMD)" is a subject that has a predisposition to develop the MDCMD, i.e., a genetic
predisposition to develop the MDCMD or has been exposed to conditions that can result in
                                                  80.

MDCMD. A subject "suspected of having a MDCMD" is one having one or more symptoms of a
MDCMD. From the above it will be clear that neither subjects "at risk of developing a
MDCMD" nor subjects "suspected of having a MDCMD" are all individuals within a species of
interest.
    [00293]     In any of the above methods, the MDCMC can be one caused by the substrate and
the Fc reagent serves to prevent or ameliorate the MDCMC.
Example 1 - Construct Design of Immunologically Active Biomimetics
    [00294]     A sequence encoding a Fc fragment monomer from human IgGi (SEQ ID NO: 1)
has been cloned into an expression vector (pCDNA 3.1 D/V5 His TOPO Invitrogen) comprising
selected restriction enzyme cleavage sites, an IgK signal (further defined below) and epitope tags
to create the IgGI monomer sequence {RestEnzSites-IgK signal-RestEnzSites-IgG1             (Hinge
CH2-CH3)-RestEnzSites-epitope tags (V5 and His)- STOP} , shown in Figure 17 (SEQ ID
NO:19). The construct was transfected into CHO cells (CHO-002) for protein production.
Additionally, we have designed several stradomer constructs with the general structures:
         a)      {RestEnzSites-IgK signal-RestEnz Sites-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-XbaI site
IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)- STOP} (SEQ ID NO: 21) (see also Figure 4A and Figure 18);
        b)       {RestEnzSites-IgK signal-RestEnz Sites-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-XbaI site IgG1
(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-RestEnzSites-epitope tags (V5 and His)-STOP} (SEQ ID NO: 23) (see also
Figure 19);
         c)      {RestEnzSites-IgK signal-EcoRV Site-IgG3(Hinge-CH2-CH3)-IgGl(Hinge CH2
CH3)-RestEnzSites-epitope tags(V5 and His)-STOP} (SEQ ID NO.: 25) (see also Figure 21);
and
         d)      {RestEnzSites-IgK signal-EcoRV Site-IgE(CH2)-IgGl(Hinge-CH2-CH3)
IgGl(Hinge-CH2)-IgE(CH4)-STOP} (SEQ ID NO.:27) (see also Figure 22).
    [00295]      The IgGi stradomer construct a) (SEQ ID NO: 21; Figure 18) was engineered
using PCR. Primers complementary to the hinge sequence (at the 5' end) of IgGi (SEQ ID NO:
29) and to the C terminus of the IgGi (at the 3' end) (SEQ ID NO: 30) were used to amplify the
IgGi Hinge-Fc region. Restriction sites were added to the primers to permit in-frame cloning of
the second Fc domain in series with the first, which was cloned into a pcDNA cloning vector
(pCDNA 3.1DN5 His TOPO, Invitrogen). A stop codon was added before the restriction site of
the C terminal primer to prevent read through of flanking sequences for this construct.
                                                81.

     [00296]     The stradomer construct b) (SEQ ID NO: 23; Figure 19), was similarly made and
contained the IgG1 Fc - IgGi Fc as described above but also contained two epitope tags added to
the C terminus of the construct. These epitope tags are used for identification or purification of
the protein. In this second construct the two epitope tags, V5 and His tag, are present in frame
prior to the stop codon.
     [00297]    Proteins that are normally secreted routinely contain a hydrophobic signal
sequence at the N terminus of the protein. For the stradomer constructs, we used the IgK signal
sequence METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTG (SEQ ID NO:35) which is removed from the protein
as it is secreted by mammalian cells such as Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. The predicted
cleavage site was based on algorithms for signal site cleavage prediction (SignalP 3.0).
     [00298]    Additional stradomer constructs, similar to a) and b) above were made that
contained the IgG1 Fc - IgG1 Fc structure as described above (with and without the epitope tag)
but using the IgG 3 Hinge domain in the construct: IgG1 Fc - IgG 3 hinge -IgG1 (CH2-CH3).
Example 2- Design and Testing of Immunologically Active Biomimetics
Coated IVIG and Coated Fc stimulate Similar Phenotypic Changes
     [00299]    IVIG and Fc when coated onto the walls and floor of the wells of a sterile plate
stimulate nearly identical changes in CDla and CD86 levels on immature DC and delay the up
regulation of CD1 1 c. Because of the recognized critical role of DC in ITP, these data provide a
rational model for evaluating the function of IVIG mimetics such as stradomers. We also
conclude that the fact that the phenotypic changes induced by IVIG are completely recapitulated
by recombinant Fc suggest that the effects of IVIG on DC are highly likely to be Fc mediated.
Stradomer Generation
     [00300]    We have constructed stradomers of four different classes to mimic the effects of
IVIG on immature DC. The serial stradomers, cluster stradomer units comprising cluster
stradomers, core stradomer units comprising core stradomers, and Fc fragment stradomers shown
below in Table 3 were each produced except where noted. To obtain the appropriate sequences
for each of the human constructs shown below, cDNA was synthesized from total RNA extracted
from human PBMC. To obtain those sequences from other species RNA was purified from tissue
of those species. Random priming was used to produce the cDNA. The cDNA was used to
                                                82.

amplify the desired fragments using PCR to synthesize, clone and subsequently characterize by
sequence analysis the DNA fragments. The final constructs were produced by either sewing by
overlap extension with PCR (Horton RM, Hunt HD, Ho SN, Pullen, JK and Pease LR.
Engineering hybrid genes without the use of restriction enzymes: gene splicing by overlap
extension. Gene 77:6168, 1989) or utilized existing compatible restriction sites to fuse the
appropriate fragments.
    [00301]      For example, in the cloning of G-007, the IgECH4 domain was directly fused to
the CH2 domain of IgGI at the 3' end of the protein. This was accomplished by making primers
that contain the overlapping sequences for IgG1CH2 (C terminus) with the N terminal amino
acids for IgECH4. In one case, a hybrid primer was used to amplify 5' with IgGI sequences and
the complementary primer was used to amplify with a 3' primer from the C terminus of the
IgECH4. Products from these two reactions were mixed and the flanking primers were used to
amplify the fusion protein. Sequence analysis confirmed the construct.
    [003021      In many cases, restriction sites were utilized that were conveniently present at the
ends of the molecules to be joined. When restriction sites are in fusion there are detectable
remnant restriction sequences at the ends of the linked sequences. This approach was used for
most of the constructs shown below in Table 3. The amino acid sequences of the stradomers
shown in Table 3 are provided in Figure 24. Some of the sequence are shown with His-tags,
known in the art to be useful in purifying proteins.
                                                 Table 3
Serial Stradomers
G-003                       IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     igG1   IgG1    IgG1
G-004                       IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgG
G-007         IgECh2        IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgECh4
G-01 1        IgECh2        IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1
G-012         IgECh2        IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1   lgECh4
G-012         IgECh2        IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   lgG1    IgG1   lgECh4
G-014                       IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     igG1   IgG1    IgG1   IgG1       IgG1    IgG1
G-016                       IgG3      IgG3     IgG3     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1
              (x-b) RestEnz
G-01 7        linker        IgG1      IgG      IgGlx-b  IgG1   IgG1    IgG1
G-023                       IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1   lg3H 32/62
G-024                       IgG3      IgG3     IgG3     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1   IgG1       IgG1    IgG1
G-025         107aa         IgG1      IgG1     IgG1
G-026         107aa         IgG1      IgG1     IgG1     IgG1   IgG1    IgG1
                                                    83.

Fc Fragment Stradomer and Core Stradomer
Components
G-002                          IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-022                          IgGI      IgG1      IgG1      IgG3Hing
Cluster Stradomer Units
G-008                            IgG1      IgG1      IgG1      IgG1      IgG1    IgG1       IgM CH3-CH4-TP
G-009                            IgG1      IgG1      IgG1      IgMCH3-CH4-TP
G-010       IgECh2               IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-018                            IgG2      IgG2      IgG2      IgG1      IgG1     IgG1
G-019       IgG2Hing             IgG1      IgG1      IgG
G-020       lgG2Hing             IgG1      IgG1      IgG1      IgG1      IgG1    IgG1
G-021       IgG2Hing             IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-027       lgECh2-igECh2        IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-028       ILZ                  IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-029       ILZ-IgECh2           IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-030       ILZ                  IgG2      IgG2      IgG2      IgG1      IgG1    IgG1
G-031       ILZ-IgG2hing         IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-032       ILZ-iLZ              IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-033       lgG2Hing-IgECh2                IgG1      IgG1      IgG
G-034       IgG2hing-ILZ         IgG2      IgG2      IgG2      IgG1      IgG1     IgG1
G-035       IgG2hing -IgG2hing   IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
G-036       IgG2hing-ILZ         IgG1      IgG1      IgG1
To Be Made
401                    IgG1         IgG1     IgG1       IgG3        IgG3    IgG3
402                    IgG3         IgG1      IgGI      IgG3        IgG1    IgG1
403                    IgG1         IgG3      IgG1      IgG1        IgG3    IgG1
404                    IgG3         IgG3     IgG1       IgG3        IgG3    IgG1
406                    IgG1         IgG1     none       IgG3        IgG3    none
407                    IgG3         IgG3      IgG3      IgG3        IgG3    IgG3       IgG3    IgG3  IgG3
408                    IgG1         IgG1     IgG1       IgG3        IgG3    IgG3       IgG1    IgG1  IgG1
409                    IgG3         IgG3     IgG3       IgG1        IgG1    IgG1       IgG3    IgG3  IgG3
410                    IgG3         IgG1      IgG1      IgG3        IgG1    IgG1       IgG3    IgG1  IgG1
411                    IgG3         IgG3     IgG1       IgG3        IgG3    IgG1       IgG3    IgG3  IgG1
412                    IgG1         IgG1     IgG4CH4    IgG3        IgG3    IgG4CH4    IgG1    IgG1  IgGCH4
413                    IgG1         IgG1                IgG3        IgG3               IgG1    IgG1
414                    IgG1         IgG1     IgG1       IgG1        IgG1    IgG1       IgG1    IgG1  IgG1
415                    IgG3         IgG3     IgG3       IgG3        IgG3    IgG3       IgG3    IgG3  IgG3
Stradomer protein expression
    [00303]      For protein expression of the stradomers, plasmid DNA encoding the stradomers
described above were transfected into CHO suspension cells (FreestyleTM MAX CHO
expression system, Invitrogen CA). Following protein expression the expressed stradomers were
purified from the culture media by affinity column chromatography using protein A or protein G
affinity columns. Purified stradomers were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (sodium dodecyl sulfate
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) under reducing conditions followed by Coomasie Blue
staining to confirm the presence of monomeric protein bands of expected size as exemplified: G
                                                       84.

002: approximately 35KD band, G-004 approximately 70KD band, G-010: approximately 45KD
band,    G-011:   approximately    80KD band,     G-012:   approximately   85KD    band,   G-018
approximately 70KD band, G-019: approximately 35KD, G-028 approximately 37KD band.
Plasmid DNA encoding the stradomers described can also be transfected into other mammalian
cells such as HEK 293, BHK cells, murine NSO, and murine SP2/0 cells.
Multimer Formation
     [00304]     We observed that these constructs, when transfected, cultured, and purified may
create proteins of the expected size in non-denatured and denatured protein analysis. In addition,
we observed that certain compounds also exhibited larger bands which by size criteria are
multimers of the expected dimeric protein.
     [00305]     Formation of higher order compounds by selected stradomers was analyzed by
SDS-PAGE followed by Western blot under non-reducing conditions (A) and reducing
conditions (B). SDS-PAGE analysis shows formation of high molecular weight compounds of
stradomers G-002, G-010, and G-019 under non-reducing conditions as compared to reducing
conditions:
    *    G-002: an approximately 35KD band under reducing condition - bands at approximately
         70KD (dimer) and 135KD (tetramer) under non-reducing conditions.
    *    G-010: an approximately 45KD band under reducing condition - bands at approximately
         90KD (dimes) and 180KD (tetramer) under non-reducing conditions.
    *    G-0 19: an approximately 35KD band under reducing conditions - bands at approximately
         70KD (dimer), 140 KD (tetramer) under non-reducing conditions.
     [00306]     We anticipate that the tetrameric and other higher order multimers of the
dimerized protein will contribute significantly to the biological activity of the compound as
measured by the immature Dendritic Cell assay (see below).
Stradomer Monomers, Stradomers, and Higher Order Multimers of Stradomers Maintain
Recognition Sites.
     [00307]     Each of the proteins in Table 3 are recognized by a rabbit anti-human IgG (Fc)
[Thermo Scientific 31789]. We conclude from this that each of these proteins maintains the
recognition sites for this antibody.
                                                85.

Plasmon Resonance Imaging
     [00308]    The ability of the stradomers in Table 3 to bind FcyRIIIa was assessed using
surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology (commercially available through Biacore). Human
FcyRIIIa was directly immobilized via amine coupling to a CM5 Biacore chip by diluting the
ligand in Acetate pH5.0 to a concentration of 5uglml. Ligands were perfused over specified flow
cell at a rate of Sul/min until an RU of 250 was reached. The flow cells were then blocked with
ethanolamine. Stradomers and IVIG were diluted to 1000nM in HBS-EP (0.01M HEPES pH 7.4;
0.15M NaCl; 3mM EDTA; 0.005% Surfactant P20) and serially diluted 500nM, 250nM, 125nM
and finally 62.5nM. A baseline sample containing only buffer (HBS-EP) was also included. A
flow rate of 20ul/min was used for all samples. A total of 60uL of sample was injected, for an
injection time of 3 minutes. Regeneration was achieved by perfusing running buffer over flow
cells for an extended period of time of approximately 10 minutes.
     [00309]    At 500nM, the measured Req (equilibrium), relative to baseline for the stradomer
G-010 construct was 24.9 RU when perfused over human FcyRIIIa, and the KD was 1.95e-7
using a 1:1 binding model. IVIG at 500nM on human FcyRIIIa gave a Req of 63.6 RU and a KD
of 1.89e-7 using a 1:1 binding model. G-010 was therefore determined to bind to FcyRIIIa.
Similar binding ability has been assessed on other biomimetic compounds. Here are some further
examples:
                           1:1 w Mass Transfer                  Bivalent Fit
                           Rmax     Chi2     KD(M)    KA(1/M)   Rmax       Chi2
Controls:
Neg. (mouse IgG2a)         2.05     0.451    4.7e-9   2.le8     5.21       0.39
Pos. (IVIG)                87.7     6.8      1.9e-7   5.3e6
Biomimetics:
002                        6.46     1.12     2.2e-8   4.9e7      16.7      0.82
004                        30.2     1.74     4.8e-8   2.5e7     88.2       2.47
011                        25.9     0.361    5.5e-6   1.8e7     57.4       0.15
     [00310]    We conclude that these proteins have varied ability to bind to recombinant
FcyRIIIa by plasmon resonance analysis and that certain compounds such as G-010 have a
bivalent curve fit, consistent with that seen by bivalent antibodies and indicating that the
stradomer may have multi-valent binding to FcyRIIIa.
                                                86.

Stradomers Mimic the Biological Effect of IVIG
     [00311]     The biological function of these stradomers was assessed. In order to determine
the ability of each of the stradomers in Table 3 to mimic the functional utility of IVIG in
individuals with ITP, we developed an in vitro assay using immature dendritic cells (iDC). The
rationale for choosing iDC as target cells was based on published data demonstrating that
adoptive transfer of DC from mice treated with IVIG, conferred protection against the
development of ITP to naYve animals. (Siragam, V. et al. Intravenous immunoglobulin
ameliorates ITP via activating Fc[gamma] receptors on dendritic cells. Nat Med 12, 688 (2006)).
In our initial studies, we evaluated the impact of coated, meaning fixed to the plate, recombinant
Fc (rFc) and IVIG on the expression of a variety of activation, maturation and costimulatory
markers on human CD14+ cells, cultured in the presence of IL-4 and GM-CSF. When compared
to cells cultured in cytokines alone, cells exposed to coated IVIG or coated rFc demonstrated
striking enhancement of CD86 expression and down regulation of CD 1 a expression as well as a
delay in CD Ic upregulation.
     [00312]     Next, we determined whether the stradomers in Table 3 mimicked the described
effect of coated IVIG or coated Fc on iDC. These compounds when coated to the plate well walls
and floors did mimic the effect: G-002, G-004, G-005, G-014, G-018, and G-019. These
compounds when coated to the plate well walls and floors did not mimic the effect: G-010, G
011, and G-012
     [00313]     These compounds when soluble did mimic the effect of coated IVIG or coated Fc
on iDC: G-002, G-010, G-014, G-018, and G-019. These compounds when soluble did not
mimic the effect: G-004, G-005, G-0 11, and G-012.
     [00314]     Whether exposure of iDC to coated IVIG would influence subsequent responses
to pro-inflammatory stimuli can be tested.
     [00315]     We draw the following conclusions from these data:
         i.  that select stradomers, when coated on a tissue culture plate, mimic the functional
             ability of coated IVIG to upregulate CD86 and suppress CD 1a expression on
             immature DC,
         ii. that select stradomers administered at a low dose in a soluble form mimic the
             functional ability of coated IVIG to up regulate CD86 and suppress CD 1a expression
             on iDC,
                                                  87.

         iii. that certain stradomers can induce phenotypic change in both a soluble and coated
              form and that other stradomers, such as G-0 10, can induce phenotypic change in a
              soluble but not a coated form,
         iv. that stradomers of differing structures can be biologically active as evidenced by the
              Fc fragment stradomer formed from G-002 and the cluster stradomer formed from G
              010,
        v. that structures larger than expected by dimerization of stradomer monomers are seen
              on protein analysis and that these multimeric structures may correspond with
              biological activity in comparison to IVIG, and
        vi. that stradomers formed from dimerized stradomer monomers can demonstrate a
              bivalent fit on plasmon resonance consistent with binding of multiple Fcy receptors
              and suggesting the presence of multimeric tertiary structures of the stradomers.
Example 3 - Heat Aggregated Biomimetics Are More Potent Than IVIG
     [00316]      A stradomer is a biologically active mimetic of aggregated immunoglobulin and
especially of the aggregated Fc fragments of those immunoglobulin. In some instances, heat
aggregation of the biomimetics described herein can increase biological activity. We conclude
that heat-aggregated biomimetics as herein described can be as potent as IVIG.
Example 4 - Fc fragment Exhibits Several Activities
     [00317]      The Fc fragment has been used as a positive control in experiments described
above in which the protein is coated and thereby fixed to plastic thereby exhibiting biological
behavior that mimics coated IVIG. The Fc fragment also can be used as a core stradomer unit
such as when it is attached to core moieties such as a liposome, a bead, or albumin. Further, we
have demonstrated that the Fc fragment when cultured in certain expression systems and certain
cell types, such as the Invitrogen FreestyleMax transient transfection system using CHO-S cells,
can form higher order multimers on protein analysis, exhibit bivalent binding pattern on plasmon
resonance imaging, and exhibit profound biological activity in soluble form comparable to
coated IVIG in the immature DC assay. We conclude therefore that under certain carefully
controlled conditions, the Fc fragment forms a Fc fragment stradomer. This effect may be due to
post-translational modifications such as glycosylation changes.
                                                   88.

Example 5 - A Core Stradomer which is an Fe-coated bead may alter Phagocytic potential
Relative to Uncoated Beads.
     [00318]    PBMCs are isolated from the buffy coat of healthy donors using Ficoll Hypaque
density gradient centrifugation. After isolation, PBMCs are washed twice with PBS. CD14+ cells
are then purified using MACS separation column (Miltenyi). The purified cells are counted and
resuspended to 2x10^5/ml RPMI complete media containing 800ug/ml GM-CSF and 5ng/ml
IL-4. The cells are then seeded in the wells of non-tissue culture but sterile 6-well plates. After
seeding the CD14+ cells in the non-tissue culture, polystyrene FITC microspheres (0.52um)
coated with or without saturating amounts of Fc or IVIG are added to the cells at a 1:1 ratio and
incubated for 6 days at 37'C, 5.0% C02 and then analyzed for phagocytosis of microspheres by
FRCS.
     [00319]    Both IVIG-coated beads and Fe-coated beads act as core stradomers and may
thereby alter phagocytotic potential relative to uncoated beads.
Example 6 - Design of Immunologically Active Biomimetics With Altered FcyRIII binding
affinities
     [00320]    It has been shown that a shared set of residues of IgGI are involved in binding to
all FcyRs. It has also been demonstrated that additional residues in IgGI molecules are involved
in the binding to both FcyRII and FcyRIII. Some residues when altered inhibited binding of one
or more receptors. Interestingly, the specific double mutation of S298A/K334A enhanced
binding of FcyIIIa and reduced binding to FcylIb. Those residues have been noted on the
stradomer construct shown in Figure 16 (using an asterisk at both amino acids). We therefore can
use site directed mutagenesis to generate a stradomer molecule having the structure encoded by
SEQ ID NO: 17 but with the corresponding S298A/K334A mutations.
Example 7 - Expression of Recombinant Proteins
     [00321]    Numerous expression systems exist that are suitable for use in producing the
compositions discussed above. Eukaryote-based systems in particular can be employed to
produce nucleic acid sequences, or their cognate polypeptides, proteins and peptides. Many such
systems are commercially and widely available.
     [00322]    In a preferred embodiment, the stradomers described herein are produced using
Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells which are well established for the recombinant production
                                                  89.

of immunoglobulin proteins following standardized protocols. Alternatively, for example,
transgenic animals may be utilized to produce the human stradomers described herein, generally
by expression into the milk of the animal using well established transgenic animal techniques.
Lonberg N. Human antibodies from transgenic animals. Nat Biotechnol. 2005 Sep;23(9):1117
25; Kipriyanov SM, Le Gall F. Generation and production of engineered antibodies. Mol
Biotechnol. 2004 Jan;26(1):39-60; See also Ko K, Koprowski H. Plant biopharming of
monoclonal antibodies. Virus Res. 2005 Jul;11 1(1):93-100.
     [00323]   The insect cell/baculovirus system can produce a high level of protein expression
of a heterologous nucleic acid segment, such as described in U.S. Patent No. 5,871,986,
4,879,236, both incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, and which can be bought, for
example, under the name MAXBAC@               2.0   from INVITROGEN@           and BACPACK m
BACULOVIRUS EXPRESSION SYSTEM FROM CLONTECH@.
     [00324]   Other examples of expression systems include STRATAGENE@'s COMPLETE
CONTROLT M Inducible Mammalian Expression System, which utilizes a synthetic ecdysone
inducible receptor. Another example of an inducible expression system is available from
INVITROGEN@, which carries the T-REXTM (tetracycline-regulated expression) System, an
inducible    mammalian    expression   system   that   uses the    full-length  CMV    promoter.
INVITROGEN@        also provides a yeast expression system called the Pichia methanolica
Expression System, which is designed for high-level production of recombinant proteins in the
methylotrophic yeast Pichia methanolica. One of skill in the art would know how to express
vectors such as an expression construct described herein, to produce its encoded nucleic acid
sequence or its cognate polypeptide, protein, or peptide. See, generally, Recombinant Gene
Expression Protocols By Rocky S. Tuan, Humana Press (1997), ISBN 0896033333; Advanced
Technologies for Biopharmaceutical Processing By Roshni L. Dutton, Jeno M. Scharer,
Blackwell Publishing (2007), ISBN 0813805171; Recombinant Protein Production With
Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Cells By Otto-Wilhelm Merten, Contributor European Federation of
Biotechnology, Section on Microbial Physiology Staff, Springer (2001), ISBN 0792371372.
Example 8 - Expression and Purification of Immunologically Active Biomimetics
     [00325]   Nucleic acid constructs described in Examples 1 and 2 are transfected into cell
lines that do not naturally express Ig. The encoded polypeptides are expressed as secreted
proteins due to their secretory leader sequences, which generally are removed by endogenous
                                               90.

proteases during transport out of the cells or may be subsequently cleaved and removed by
techniques well known in the art. These secreted immunologically active biomimetics are
purified using Protein A or His tag chromatographic approaches well known in the art and size is
verified by reducing and/or non-reducing SDS PAGE (sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis).
Example 9 - Expression and Purification of Immunologically Active Biomimetics for Large
Scale Production
     [00326]   While various systems can be used to produce large amounts of a specific protein
including bacteria, insect cells or yeast, expression in mammalian cells can minimize problems
due to altered glycosylation of the proteins. Mammalian cells like CHO cells have been used to
overproduce various proteins fused to an Ig backbone. The Fc domain in the construct becomes a
tag that permits subsequent purification from the cell supernatant using protein affinity column
purification (Harris, CL, DM Lublin and BP Morgan Efficient generation of monoclonal
antibodies for specific protein domains using recombinant immunoglobulin fusion proteins:
pitfalls and solutions., J. Immunol. Methods 268:245-258, 2002). Many fusion proteins are
directly cloned in frame with the constant region of Ig, specifically the CH2 and CH3 partial Fc
domain monomers. A specific example of expression of interferon gamma receptor extracellular
domain being expressed with Ig has been used to produce large amounts of the protein with
functional activity (Fountoulakis, M, C. Mesa, G. Schmid, R. Gentz, M. Manneberg, M. Zulauf,
Z. Dembic and G. Garotta, Interferon gamma receptor extracellular domain expressed as IgG
fusion protein in Chinese hamster ovary cells: Purification, biochemical, characterization and
stoichiometry of binding, J. Biol. Chem.. 270:3958-3964, 1995).
Example 10 - Design of Immunologically Active Biomimetics With Altered Fc Glycosylation
     [00327]   By a method essentially the same as that described by Shields et al. with regard to
homo-antibodies, de-fucosylated Fc domains can be made in mutant CHO cells lacking
enzymatic activity for adding fucose to protein carbohydrates. These are used to express
stradomers with stronger FcyRIII binding affinities relative to a fucosylated form of the same
molecule. (Robert L. Shields, et al. Lack of Fucose on Human IgGI N-Linked Oligosaccharide
Improves Binding to Human Fc RIR and Antibody-dependent Cellular Toxicity. J. Biol. Chem.,
Jul 2002; 277: 26733 - 26740 (doi:10.1074/jbc.M202069200)).
                                                 91.

     [00328]    It has been shown that changes in sialylation in the Fc N-glycan can increase
biological activity. Kaneko Y, Nimmerjahn F, Ravetch JV. Science. 2006 Aug 4;313(5787):627
8. Thus stradomer molecule having altered sialylation can be produced using similar methods.
     [00329]    Alternative means to altering glycosylation of stradomer Fc domains include
chemoenzymatic techniques for producing polypeptides with a specific glycosylation structure.
See, Li, B., Song, H., Hauser, S., and Wang, L. X. 2006. A Highly Efficient Chemoenzymatic
Approach Toward Glycoprotein Synthesis. Org. Lett. 8:30813084; See, also, International Pat.
App. No. PCT/US07/70818.
Example 11 - Fusion Constructs of FcyRIIIa (176 V/F) Polymorphism
     [00330]    As discussed previously, the anti-inflammatory activity of IVIG is dependent on
primary interactions between the Fc domain and FcyRIIIa. These interactions can be effectively
quantitated using (SPR) technology to characterize both association and dissociation constants of
the immunologically active biomimetics with the two recognized polymorphic variants of
FcyRIIIa (176 V/F). In order to define the binding affinity and dissociation of our Fc domain
monomeric control and stradomer constructs, FcyRIIIa HIS tag fusion proteins will be produced
in CHO cells with both V (SEQ ID NO:33) and F (SEQ ID NO:31) polymorphic variants at
position 176 (Figure 20). These sequences can be put into pCDNA 3.1 and transfected into CHO
cells. These FcyRIIIa fusion proteins are purified from the supernatants from transfected cells
using affinity Nit' columns to purify the proteins. All FcyRIIIa fusion proteins are characterized
by both cDNA sequencing and SDS PAGE.
     [00331]    Various other protocols in the art can be utilized to express FcyRIIIa and
characterize interactions with immunologically active biomimetic. See, e.g., the materials and
methods section of Robert L. Shields, et al. High Resolution Mapping of the Binding Site on
Human IgGI for FcyRI, FcyRII, FcyRIII, and FcRn and Design of IgGI Variants with Improved
Binding      to   the   FcyR.   J.   Biol.    Chem.,     Feb    2001;    276:    6591    -   6604
(doi: 10.1074/jbc.M009483200).
Example 12 - Screening Immunologically Active Biomimetic Function In vitro
     [00332]    To test the function of immunologically active biomimetics such as those
presented in Example 1, an in vitro assay is designed to recapitulate the mechanism by which it
appears that native Fc domains reduce inflammation in vivo. It has recently been demonstrated
                                                92.

that hIVIG inhibits the maturation of DCs and alters the secretion of IL-10, IL-12 and TNF-alpha
(Bayry, J, et al., Inhibition of maturation and function of dendritic cells by intravenous
immunoglobulin, Blood 101(2):758-765(2003)). Our stradomers mediate effects on DCs similar
to hIVIG. The inhibition of DC maturation and alterations in cytokine secretion in vitro can serve
as an effective means to define some of the biological activities of many stradomer constructs.
The stradomer constructs described above may be further validated using the following
experimental parameters:
                                               Table 4
Group     Experimental condition   Outcome measure 1 (FAGS)       Outcome measure 2 ELISA/Elispot
1         None                     CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
2         Soluble IVIG             CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
3         Fixed WIG                CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
4         Soluble Fc               CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
5         Fixed Fc                 CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
6         Soluble Stradomer        CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
7         Fixed Stradomer          CDla,14,40,80,83,86, HLADR     IL-10, IL-12, TNFa, IL-23
     [00333]    In one preferred in vitro assay shown in Table 4, the impact on human DC
phenotype of soluble, immunologically active biomimetics, having appropriate binding affinities,
is measured. Soluble non-cross-linked natural sequence Fc domain constructs can serve as
controls. Specific DC markers on the DC surface are evaluated including markers of activation
(CD80, CD83 and CD86) as well as the FcyRs. See Prechtel AT, Turza NM, Theodoridis AA,
Steinkasserer A. CD83 knockdown in monocyte-derived DCs by small interfering RNA leads to
a diminished T cell stimulation. J Immunol. 2007 May 1;178(9):5454-64. In addition, multiplex
analysis can be employed to evaluate the impact of our immunologically active biomimetics on
DC cytokine production. Jongbloed, Sarah L., et al. Enumeration and phenotypic analysis of
distinct dendritic cell subsets in psoriatic arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Res Ther.
2006; 8(1): R15 (Published online 2005 December 16. doi: 10.11861ar1864). Finally, to confirm
DCs interact with monocytes as expected, control DCs and DCs exposed to immunologically
active biomimetics are cultured with purified monocytes and evaluated by flow cytometry for
changes in the levels of activating FcyRIIa receptors and other cell surface determinants related
to the activation state of the monocytes.
                                                  93.

     [00334]    In particular embodiments, stradomers can decrease the FcyRIIa receptors present
on an immune cell thereby increasing the ratio of inhibitory FcyRIIb receptors to the FcyRIIa
receptors which results in inhibition of immune cell functions.
Example 13 - Screening Immunologically Active Biomimetic Function In vivo
     [00335]    Numerous autoimmune diseases such as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura,
multiple sclerosis, asthma, and inflammatory bowel diseases have established, art recognized
animal models for in vivo testing. Wu GF, Laufer TM. The role of dendritic cells in multiple
sclerosis. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2007 May;7(3):245-52; Targan SR, Karp LC. Defects in
mucosal immunity leading to ulcerative colitis. Immunol Rev. 2005 Aug;206:296-305. For
example, multiple models of ITP are currently available. See, e.g., Crow AR, et al. IVIG inhibits
reticuloendothelial system function and ameliorates murine passive immune thrombocytopenia
independent of anti-idiotype reactivity. Br J Haematol. 2001;1 15:679-686. Immunologically
active biomimetics designed to modulate the immune system, as appropriate for each specific
autoimmune disease, can be validated in such in vivo models. Importantly, in many of these
models, administration of hIVIG likely results in a foreign species (e.g. mouse) anti-human
antibody response which has the potential to obscure or create false positive product related anti
inflammatory effects.
     [00336]    We established a mouse model of Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic                Purpura
according to the following methodology: Platelet counts were measured in C57BL6 mice by
serial tail vein nicking. 10 ul. of blood was diluted in 15 ul citrate buffer. Samples were then
analyzed for absolute platelet count on a HemaVet 950 cytometer. For mice in an ITP control
group, starting day 2, every afternoon platelets were depleted by giving intra peritoneal injection
of 2 ug Rat Anti-Mouse CD41 (MWReg30), an anti-platelet antibody from BD Biosciences
pharmingen. Mice in the IVIG pretreatment control group received 2 g/kg (40mg/mice) human
IVIG by i.p. injection every morning and the same dose MWReg30 as the ITP control group. We
determined that IVIG is highly protective of platelet count in this model of induced ITP and
conclude that this model is useful for testing stradomers against IVIG for relative degree of
protection from platelet count decreases. A stradomer can be assessed in this model at various
concentrations to assess protection relative to IVIG as follows:
                                                 94.

Groups in an experiment
         1)     Control - No ITP, No IVIG
        2)     ITP control group - 2 ug MWReg30 every evening starting day 2
         3)    IVIG pretreatment group - 40mg IVIG every morning and 2 ug MWReg30 every
                evening starting day 2
        4)      Stradomer equivalent to 101\12 Fc domains IV every morning
         5)     Stradomer equivalent to 101\11 Fc domains IV every morning
         6)     Stradomer equivalent to 101\10 Fc domains IV every morning
         7)     Stradomer equivalent to 101\9 Fc domains IV every morning
         8)     Stradomer equivalent to 10^8 Fc domains IV every morning
         9)     Stradomer equivalent to 10^7 Fc domains IV every morning
         10)    Stradomer equivalent to 101\6 Fc domains IV every morning
Example 14 - Validating Immunologically Active Biomimetic Efficacy In vivo for Treating ITP
     [00337]   In another murine model of 1TP, mice deficient in normal B cell function can be
used. Deficiency in normal B cell function serves to eliminate the idiotype-antiidiotype effects of
murine anti-human Fc fragment antibodies that would be generated by the administration of
human Fc fragment or Fc partial fragment to a mouse and consequent false positive results. The
deficiency in B cell function can be generated, for example, through the administration of anti-B
cell antibodies or occurs in genetically engineered mice such as the m chain-knock out mouse
(Jackson Labs strain B6.129S2-Ightmicg/J) that are deficient in mature B-cells.
     [00338]   The immune system of immunodeficient mice is reconstituted with either
unmodified or B cell depleted PBMCs from immunocompetent animals. These animals are
subsequently treated with anti-platelet antibodies to mimic ITP using well defined techniques in
the art. Animals are then treated with immunologically active biomimetics according to the
following scheme:
                                                95.

Table 5. In vivo efficacy of [hIgG1 Fe domain - hIgGi Fe domain] (SEQ ID NO.: 22)
immunologically active biomimetics for the treatment of ITP.
Group     Animal #      PBMC's used to                Treatment                Outcome Measure
                        reconstitute mice
 1        5             None                          IgG1 Fc                  Platelet Count
2         5             None                          IgG1 Fc - IgG1 Fc        Platelet Count
                                                      Stradomer
3         5             Unmodified                    IgG1 Fc                  Platelet Count
4         5             Unmodified                    IgG1 Fc - IgG1 Fc        Platelet Count
                                                      Stradomer
5         5             B cell depleted               IgG1 Fc                  Platelet Count
6         5             B cell depleted               IgG1 Fc - IgG1 Fc        Platelet Count
                                                      Stradomer
7         5             Unmodified                    hIVIG                    Platelet Count
     [00339]    It is anticipated that groups 1 and 2 will not develop ITP upon antibody infusion
as they do not have the B cells to produce anti-platelet antibodies necessary for platelet
destruction. In groups 3 and 4, it is expected that both the {hIgG1 Fc -hIgG1 Fc} stradomer
polypeptide and the hIgG1 Fc monomer polypeptide effectively ameliorate ITP because
endogenous murine antibodies react with hIgGi Fc domain epitopes to crosslink the hIgG1 Fc
monomer polypeptides. In contrast, in the absence of endogenous murine antibodies, the {hIgG1
Fc - hIgG1 Fc} stradomer polypeptide (group 6) is more effective than the uncross-linked IgGi
Fc monomer polypeptide (group 5) in ameliorating ITP. Group 7 serves as a positive control for
treatment effect.
Example 15 - Treating Patients with ITP Using Intravenous Formulations of Stradomer Proteins
(SEQ ID NOs: 18 & 22)
     [00340]    Treatment protocols for ITP with the exemplary stradomer proteins encoded by
SEQ. ID. NO.:17 & 21 are utilized in a manner tracking standard guidelines for ITP hIVIG
therapy such as the Executive Committee of the American Society of Hematology practice
guideline for the diagnosis and management of primary immune thrombocytopenic purpura. See
George, JN, et al. Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura: a practice guideline developed by
explicit methods for the American Society of Hematology. Blood. 1996 Jul 1;88(1):3-40; See
                                                 96.

also, the 2000 guidelines by Italian pediatric hematologists, the 2003 British hematologists
guidelines and the 2006 Japanese pediatric hematologists guidelines. Alternatively, the stradomer
IV protocols for ITP may include an initial administration phase with dosages of about 0.1 to
about 0.001 times the above treatment protocol dosages. The initial low dose phase is designed
to minimize any short term pro-inflammatory effects of the stradomer administration while still
being sufficient to induce a long term anti-inflammatory effect, which is subsequently enhanced
and maintained by the second phase standard dosing described above. The rationale for this
alternative approach is that some embodiments of a stradomer may have both a short term
inflammatory effect as well as a long term anti-inflammatory effect through decreasing the
expression of FcyRIIa. An initial low dose (or initial low doses) can be used to stimulate the long
term anti-inflammatory effect while minimizing the short term inflammatory effect.
     [00341]    The effective stradomer dose is generally from about 0.01% to about 15% of the
effective hIVIG dose, more preferably, about 0.1% to about 3% of the effective hIVIG dose. The
effective hIVIG dose in ITP is generally in the range of about 100 mg/Kg to about 2 grams/Kg
administered every 10 - 21 days.
     [00342]    The stradomer intravenous formulation will be substantially the same as FDA
approved hIVIG formulations but may exclude the stabilizers present in some hIVIG
formulations. See, e.g., the product insert for Gammagard S/D, distributed by Baxter Healthcare
Corporation and approved for ITP therapy by the FDA.
Example 16 - Treating Patients with ITP Using Intraperitoneal Administration of a Core
Stradomer
     [00343]    Treatment protocols for ITP with exemplary stradomer proteins representing Fc
fragments fixed to a core moiety such as a liposome are utilized by intraperitoneal administration
with dosages of about 1% to about 0.001% of standard intravenous IVIG protocol dosages. The
rationale for this alternative approach is that core stradomers comprised of fixed Fc fragments
delivered in a stable formulation to the intraperitoneal cavity will make available the multiple Fc
domains to affect monocytederived effector cells similarly to IVIG but at substantially lower
doses.
                                                 97.

Example 17 - Design of Immunologically Active Biomimetics (Stradobodies)
    [00344]     Two stradobodies have been constructed and transfected . For each stradobody,
encoding cDNA was synthesized from total RNA made from hybridoma cell lines expressing the
antibody of interest. Establishing hybridoma cell lines is well known in the art. Amplification of
cDNA of interest encoding the antibody heavy and light variable regions was done by BD
SMART        RACE amplification kit (Clontech CA). Numerous other methods are available to
generate cDNA encoding the heavy and light chains for variable regions of antibodies (Sassano,
M. et. al., 1994. Nucleic Acids Res. May 11;22(9):1768-9; Jones, S.T., Bendig, M.M., 1991.
Biotechnology (NY) Jan: 9(1):88-9.) To generate the stradobodies the heavy chain variable
regions are fused to the stradomer constructs by either sewing by overlap extension with PCR
(Hutton and Pease) or utilize existing compatible restriction sites to fuse the appropriate
fragments. Stradobody proteins are expressed in CHO-S cells and isolated from cell supernatants
by protein A column affinity purification. Binding of the purified stradobodies to the antigen of
interest is confirmed by flow cytometry binding studies utilizing cell lines expressing the
antigen.
    [00345]     A standard ADCC assay employing NK cells as effectors and antigen expressing
tumor cells as targets at various effector-to-target ratios is employed to compare the potential of
the stradobody and the monoclonal antibody (Mab) that shares the same Fab region to induce
ADCC against high and low antigen expressing tumor cell lines. . Stradobodies are selected for
development that demonstrate similar results to the paired Mab in the NK assay against the high
epitope expressing cell line but superior results to the paired Mab in the NK assay against the
low epitope expressing cell line.
Example 18 - Treating Patients with Breast cancer Using Intravenous Formulations of
Stradobody Containing the Antigen-Binding Domain of Trastuzumab
    [00346]     Treatment protocols for breast cancer with the exemplary stradobody containing a
Fab that is or is similar to the Fab from the marketed product trastuzumab having activity against
the her2/neu epitope are utilized in a manner tracking standard guidelines for breast cancer
therapy. See Romond, EH et. al. Trastuzumab plus Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Operable HER2
Positive Breast Cancer. NEJM. 2005 Oct. 20; 353:1673-1684; Seidman, AD et. al. Weekly
Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel Therapy for Metastatic Breast Cancer With Analysis of Efficacy by
HER2 Immunophenotype and Gene Amplification. Journal of Clinical Oncology. Vol 19, Issue
                                                  98.

 10 (May), 2001: 2587- 2595; Vogel, CL et. al. Journal of Clinical Oncology. Vol 20, Issue 3
(February), 2002:719-726
     [00347]    It is anticipated that the effective stradobody dose will generally range from about
 1% to about 500% of the effective monoclonal antibody whose Fab is the same as the
stradobody, more preferably, about 50% to about 100% of the effective monoclonal antibody
dose. The effective monoclonal antibody dose in clinical cancer treatment varies. For the Her-2
neu monoclonal antibody the dose is generally in the range of about 2 mg/Kg to about 4 mg/Kg
administered every 7 - 21 days.
Example 19 - Treating Patients with Head and Neck or Colon cancer Using Intravenous
Formulations of Stradobody Containing the Antigen-Binding Domain of Cetuximab
     [00348]    It is anticipated that treatment protocols for breast cancer with the exemplary
stradobody containing a Fab that is or is similar to the Fab from the marketed product cetuximab
having activity against the EGFR epitope can be utilized in a manner tracking standard
guidelines for head and neck and colon cancer therapies. See Robert, F et. al. Phase I Study of
Anti-Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Antibody Cetuximab in Combination With Radiation
Therapy in Patients With Advanced Head and Neck Cancer. Journal of Clinical Oncology, Vol
19, Issue 13 (July), 2001: 3234-3243; Bonner, JA et. al. Cetuximab prolongs survival in patients
with locoregionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck: A phase III study of
high dose radiation therapy with or without cetuximab. Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2004
ASCO Annual Meeting Proceedings (Post-Meeting Edition).Vol 22, No 14S (July 15
Supplement), 2004: 5507; Shin, DM et. al. Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-targeted Therapy
with C225 and Cisplatin in Patients with Head and Neck Cancer. Clinical Cancer Research Vol.
7, 12041213, May 2001; Cunningham, D et al. Cetuximab Monotherapy and Cetuximab plus
Irinotecan in Irinotecan-Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer. NEJM. Volume 351:337-345,
2004.
     [00349]    It is anticipated that the effective EGFR / HER1 stradobody dose will generally
range from about 1% to about 500% of the effective monoclonal antibody whose Fab is the same
as the stradobody, more preferably, about 50% to about 100% of the effective monoclonal
antibody dose. The effective monoclonal antibody dose in clinical cancer treatment varies. For
the EGFR monoclonal antibody the dose is generally in the range of about 250 - 400 mg/square
meter which is about 5 mg/Kg - 25 mg/ Kg administered every 7 - 21 days.
                                                    99.

Example 20. Increased Multimerization by Altered Glycosylation May Increase
Immunologically Active Biomimetic Activity.
     [00350]    The glycosylation patterns of expressed proteins are dependent on the cell line in
which the protein is expressed. The Chinese Hamster Ovarian cell (CHO cell) commonly used
for protein expression and purification results in a glycosylation pattern that is different from, for
example, the HEK 293 cells which are of human origin and also is commonly used for protein
expression of endogeneous proteins. As the binding properties of Fc fragments and cluster
stradomer units can be affected by the glycosylation pattern, increased multimerization and
therefore increased biological activity of the expressed peptides can be achieved by expression in
cell lines other than CHO or in cell lines including CHO that are genetically altered to change the
glycosylation pattern to an N-glycan that promotes increased aggregation between Fc fragments
or Fc domain-containing peptides. Increased multimerization of Fc fragment or selected cluster
stradomer units by altering glycosylation patterns may increase the ability of immunologically
active biomimetics to mimic the effects of hIVIG.
Example 21. Does Exposure of Mature DC (mDC) to IVIG or rFcF (recombinant Fc fragments)
Alter Their Phenotype?
     [00351]    The rFCF fragments from human IgGI to be used in this experiment were
produced by standard recombinant protein technology. The two chains of the human rFCF each
consisted of the hinge region (15 amino acids), the CH2 domain (110 amino acids), and the CH3
domain (106 amino acids) of human IgG 1 heavy chain.
     [00352]    CD14+ cells can be isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)
obtained from the blood of a healthy human donor using a Miltenyi MACS separation column.
The cells are cultured at a final concentration of 2 x 10 5/mL in GMCSF (800 IU/mL) and IL-4 (5
ng/mL) for 5 days at 37'C. The media in all cultures is refreshed on day 3 of culture. At day 5,
lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 10 pg/ml) is added to appropriate cultures to induce maturation to a
mature DC. Mature DCs are known in the art not to express substantive levels of the CD16,
CD32 or CD64. The cells are then cultured for an additional two days and aliquots are analyzed
for CD Ic, CD80, CD83, CD86, CDla, and CD14 expression by two dimensional fluorescence
flow cytometry (FFC). The remaining cells cultured with LPS are then placed in wells with
soluble or coated IVIG or human rFcF (all at 10 [ig/mL) for 24 hours at 37'C, harvested and
analyzed for expression of the markers listed above by two-dimensional FFC.
                                                 100.

     [00353]     Experimental groups are as follows:
                 (1)    CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; no LPS ("7d-LPS")
                 (2)    CD14+ cells: GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS ("7d+LPS")
                 (3)     CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS; coated WIG ("cIVIG")
                 (4)     CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS; soluble IVIG ("sIVIG")
                 (5)     CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS; coated rFcF ("cFc")
                 (6)     CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS; soluble rFcF ("sFc")
                 (7)     CD14+ cells; GM-CSF; IL-4; LPS ("Control")
Example 22. Does Exposure of iDC to Coated WIG Inhibit Phagocytosis of Opsonized Red
Blood Cells?
     [00354]     CD14+ cells are purified from human PBMC of a healthy human donor as
described in Example 21 and cultured at 37 'C for 6 days with GM-CSF and IL-4 at the
concentrations indicated in the previous examples and in the presence or absence of coated or
soluble IVIG. The cells are harvested and then incubated at either 370 C or 4'C for two hours
with Rho-positive human red blood cells that are uncoated or coated with fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC) conjugated anti-D antibody. After incubation with red blood cells, CD14+
cells are stained for APC-conjugated CDla. Phagocytosis is then evaluated by two dimensional
FFC measuring side light scatter (SSC-A), forward light scatter (FSC-A), FITC fluorescence
(FITC-A), and APC fluorescence (CD 1a).
Example 23. Does Exposure to Coated IVIG Decrease the Ability of iDC to Stimulate an
Allogeneic Mixed Lymphocyte Reaction
     [00355]     CD14+ cells are isolated from the blood of a healthy human donor as described in
the previous examples. They are then cultured at 370 C for 6 days with GM CSF and IL-4 in the
presence or absence of soluble and coated IVIG.. The concentrations of all these reagents are as
described in above. The cells are then harvested and plated into the wells of 96 well microtiter
tissue culture plates at various numbers (with the highest dose being 2.5 x 104 per well). CD3+ T
cells are purified from the PBMC of a second human donor that was HLA incompatible with the
donor from which the CD14+ cells are isolated. The T cells are added to each of the wells of the
96 well tissue culture plates (105 T cells per well). After five days of co-culture, 1 iCi of 3 H
thymidine is added to each of the culture wells. The cultures are then incubated for a further 6
                                                101.

hours and incorporation of the 3 H-thymidine ("cpm") is measured as an indication of the degree
of cell proliferation in the cultures. Three different iDC stimulator populations are tested: one
generated by culture with GM-CSF and IL-4 only, one generated by culture with GM-CSF, IL-4,
and coated IVIG, and one generated by culture with GM-CSF, IL-4, and soluble IVIG.
Example 24. Effect of Exposure of iDC to Coated and Soluble rFcF and IVIG on Cvtokine
Expression by the iDC and mDC
    [00356]     Cultures containing CD14+ cells, GM-CSF, and IL-4 and either rFcF (coated or
soluble) or IVIG (coated or soluble) are set up under the conditions described in the previous
examples. Instead of testing the cells for expression of cell surface markers, phagocytic ability,
or the ability to stimulate allogeneic MLRs, the cytokines the cells produce are measured. It is
expected that coated rFcF will modulate cytokine production by the cells in a manner similar to
IVIG but not similar to soluble rFcF. Thus, it is expected that the level of cytokines that inhibit
inflammatory responses (e.g., interleukin4, interleukin-6, and interleukin-12) will be enhanced
by exposure of the cells to coated rFcF. Moreover, it is expected that exposure of the cells to
coated rFcF will result in a decrease in the level of production by the cells of cytokines that
enhance inflammatory responses (e.g., interferon, interleukin-23, and tumor necrosis factor-I).
Example 25. Recombinant Mouse Fc Fragments
    [00357]     Recombinant Fc fragments (rFcF) from mouse IgG2a were produced using
standard cloning and recombinant protein expression techniques. The two chains of the mouse
rFcF each consisted of the hinge region (21 amino acids), the CH2 domain (110 amino acids),
and the CH3 domain (107 amino acids) of mouse IgG2a heavy chain. The mouse IgG2a was
active in the human iDC assay when coated to the walls and floors of plate wells.
    [00358]     Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail, it
should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made herein
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular
embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means, methods and
steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate
from the disclosure of the present invention, processes, machines, manufacture, compositions of
matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that perform
                                                102.

substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding
embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly,
the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes, machines,
manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps. All U.S. and foreign patents,
patent application publications, and non-patent literature (including, but not limited to, abstracts,
scientific journal articles, books, product literature and manuals) referred to or cited herein are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
     [00359]     1.     An isolated serial stradomer comprising two or more associated stradomer
monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two or more Fc domain
monomers, wherein the association of the two or more stradomer monomers forms two or more
Fc domains, and wherein the serial stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a
first of the two or more Fc domains and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two or
more Fc domains.
     [00360]    2.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more
stradomer monomers are associated through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or chemical cross
linking.
     [003611    3.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the isolated serial
stradomer comprises two associated stradomer monomers.
     [00362]    4.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the isolated serial
stradomer comprises two associated stradomer monomers, wherein both of said stradomer
monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two
stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains.
     [00363]    5.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
     [003641    6.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
     [00365]    7.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
     [003661    8.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
                                                  103.

    [003671     9.    The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00368]     10.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain.
    [00369]     11.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an
IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00370]     12.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3
domain.
    [00371]     13.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3
domain.
    [00372]     14.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc
domains independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3
domain.
    [00373]     15.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the first and second Fcy
receptors are each independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an
Fcy receptor IV.
    [00374]     16.    The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the first and second Fcy
receptors are each Fey receptor Ila.
    [00375]     17.    The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more Fc
domains are each of a same immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is
selected from the group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4.
    [00376]     18.    The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more Fc
domains are each of a different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is
selected from the group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.
    [00377]     19.   An isolated serial stradomer comprising two associated stradomer
monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers,
                                                104.

wherein the association of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains, wherein each of
said two Fc domains independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG
CH3 domain, and wherein the serial stradomer specifically binds to a first Fey receptor through a
first of the two Fc domains and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two Fc domains.
     [00378]     20.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein the two Fc domains are
each of a same immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the
group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4.
     [00379]     21.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein the two Fc domains are
each of a different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from
the group consisting of IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.
     [00380]     22.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
     [00381]     23.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
     [00382]     24.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
     [00383]     25.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
     [00384]     26.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fc
domains comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00385]     27.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00386]     28.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
     [00387]     29.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an TgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00388]     30.   The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
                                                105.

    [00389]    31.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, further comprising a Fab
domain, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain and
two Fc domain monomers, wherein the Fab fragment heavy chain is in a position amino terminal
or carboxy terminal to the two Fc domain monomers, wherein an Fab fragment light chain is
independently associated with each Fab fragment heavy chain, and wherein the Fab domain has
antigen-binding activity.
    [00390]    32.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 31, wherein each of said stradomer
monomers     further  comprises     an immunoglobulin      hinge   monomer,   and   wherein   the
immunoglobulin hinge monomer is in a position between the Fab fragment heavy chain and the
two Fc domain monomers.
    [00391]    33.     A core stradomer comprising a core moiety linked to two or more core
stradomer units, wherein each of said two or more core stradomer units comprises at least one Fc
domain, and wherein each of said core stradomer units is independently selected from the group
consisting of:
    [00392]    (a)     an Fc fragment, wherein said Fc fragment comprises two associated Fc
fragment monomers, wherein each of said Fc fragment monomers comprises an Fc domain
monomer, and wherein the association of the two Fc fragment monomers forms an Fc domain,
    [00393]    (b)     an Fc partial fragment, wherein said Fc partial fragment comprises two
associated Fc partial fragment monomers, wherein each of said Fc partial fragment monomers
comprises an Fc domain monomer, and wherein the association of the two Fc partial fragment
monomers forms an Fc domain,
    [00394]    (c)     an Fc domain, wherein said Fc domain comprises two associated Fc
domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two Fc domain monomers forms an Fc
domain,
    [00395]    (d)     a serial stradomer, wherein said serial stradomer comprises two or more
associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two or
more Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two or more stradomer
monomers forms two or more Fc domains, and
    [00396]    (e)     a cluster stradomer, wherein said cluster stradomer comprises two or more
multimerized cluster stradomer units, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises a
multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units
                                                106.

comprises two associated cluster stradomer unit monomers, wherein each of said cluster
stradomer unit monomers comprises a multimerizing region monomer and at least one Fc
domain monomer, wherein the association of the two cluster stradomer unit monomers forms a
multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, and wherein the multimerizing regions of the
two or more cluster stradomer units multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and wherein the
core stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the two or more core
stradomer units and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two or more core stradomer
units.
     [00397]    34.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the core moiety is selected from
the group consisting of an immunoglubin J chain, albumin, liposome, bead, peptide and
polyethylene glycol.
     [00398]    35.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the two or more core stradomer
units are each independently an Fc fragment.
     [00399]    36.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the two or more core stradomer
units are each independently a serial stradomer.
     [00400]    37.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the core stradomer comprises
two core stradomer units, wherein each of the two core stradomer units is each independently a
serial stradomer, wherein the serial stradomer comprises two associated stradomer monomers,
wherein both of said stradomer monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the
association of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains.
     [00401]    38.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of
the two or more core stradomer units comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2
domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00402]    39.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of
the two or more two core stradomer units comprises an IgG 1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an
IgGI CH2 domain.
     [00403]    40.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fe domains of the
two or more two core stradomer units independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
     [00404]    41.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of
the two or more two core stradomer units comprises an an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
                                                107.

     [00405]    42.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the
two or more two core stradomer units independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2
domain.
     [00406]    43.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the
two or more two core stradomer units independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00407]    44.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the
two or more two core stradomer units independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2
domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
     [00408]    45.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors
are each independently an Fey receptor I, an Fey receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fey
receptor IV.
     [00409]    46.    The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors
are each Fcy receptor Ila.
     [00410]    47.    A cluster stradomer comprising two or more multimerized cluster
stradomer units, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises a multimerizing region
and at least one Fc domain, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises two
associated cluster stradomer unit monomers, wherein each of said cluster stradomer unit
monomers comprises a multimerizing region monomer and at least one Fc domain monomer,
wherein the association of the two cluster stradomer unit monomers forms a multimerizing
region and at least one Fc domain, wherein the multimerizing regions of the two or more cluster
stradomer units multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and wherein the cluster stradomer
specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first Fc domain and to a second Fcy receptor
through a second Fc domain.
     [00411]    48.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the multimerizing region is
selected from the group consisting of an IgG2 hinge, an IgE CH2 domain, a leucine, an
isoleucine zipper and a zinc finger.
     [00412]    49.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising two multimerized cluster
stradomer units.
     [00413]    50.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising three multimerized cluster
stradomer units.
                                                108.

    [00414]     51.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising four multimerized cluster
stradomer units.
    [00415]     52.   The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising five multimerized cluster
stradomer units.
    [00416]    53.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and
an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00417]    54.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
    [00418]    55.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the Fc domains
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
    [00419]    56.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
    [00420]    57.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00421]    58.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00422]    59.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
    [00423]    60.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the cluster
stradomer units comprises two or more Fc domains.
    [00424]    61.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the cluster stradomer
units comprises two or more Fc domains.
    [00425]    62.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the first and second Fcy
receptors are each independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fey receptor III or an
Fcy receptor IV.
    [00426]     63.    The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the first and second Fcy
receptors are each Fey receptor Ila.
    [00427]     64.   A stradobody comprising two or more associated stradomer monomers
and an Fab domain, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy
chain and two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein the Fab fragment heavy chain is in a
                                              109.

position amino terminal or carboxy terminal to the two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein
the association of the two or more stradomer monomers forms two or more Fc domains, wherein
an Fab fragment light chain is independently associated with the Fab fragment heavy chain of
each stradomer monomer, wherein the Fab domain has antigen-binding activity, and wherein the
stradobody specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the two or more Fc
domains and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two or more Fc domains.
    [00428]     65.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the two or more stradomer
monomers are associated through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or chemical cross-linking.
    [00429]     66.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein each of said stradomer monomers
further comprises an immunoglobulin hinge monomer, and wherein the immunoglobulin hinge
monomer is in a position between the Fab fragment heavy chain and the two Fc domain
monomers.
    [00430]     67.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the stradobody comprises two
associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab
fragment heavy chain and two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two
stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains.
    [00431]     68.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
    [00432]     69.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
    [00433]     70.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain.
    [00434]     71.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the Fc two domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain.
    [00435]     72.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and
an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00436]     73.     The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
                                               110.

    [00437]      74.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
    [00438]      75.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00439]      76.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
    [00440]      77.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain.
    [00441]      78.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain.
    [00442]      79.    The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are
each independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor
IV.
    [00443]      80.    The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are
each Fcy receptor Illa.
    [00444]      81.    A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a serial stradomer of claim 1 and a carrier or diluent.
    [00445]      82.    A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a core stradomer of claim 33 and a carrier or diluent.
    [00446]      83.    A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a cluster stradomer of claim 47 and a carrier or diluent.
    [00447]      84.    A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a stradobody of claim 64 and a carrier or diluent.
    [00448]      85.    The method of claim 81, wherein the pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of serial stradomers and
a carrier or diluent.
                                                 111.

    [00449]      86.    The method of claim 82, wherein the pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of core stradomers and
a carrier or diluent.
    [00450]      87.    The method of claim 83, wherein the pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of cluster stradomers
and a carrier or diluent.
    [00451]      88.    The method of claim 84, wherein the pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of stradobodies and a
carrier or diluent.
    [00452]      89.    A method of screening an antibody for a specific activity on a cell of the
immune system, comprising:
    [00453]      (a)    contacting a homogenous population of cells of the immune system with a
candidate antibody,
    [00454]      (b)    measuring an activity of the population of cells of (a),
    [00455]      (c)    contacting a homogenous population of cells of the same cell type as in (a)
with a serial stradomer of claim 1,
    [00456]      (d)    measuring an activity of the population of cells of (c), and
    [00457]      (e)    comparing the activity measured in (b) with the activity measured in (d),
thereby screening an antibody for a specific activity on a cell of the immune system.
    [00458]      90.    The method of claim 89, wherein the candidate antibody and the serial
stradomer are species-matched and isotype-matched.
    [00459]      91.    The method of claim 89, wherein the comparison in (e) is a ratio of
activity measured in (d) versus the activity measured in (b).
    [00460]      92.    A method of inhibiting the activity of a monocyte-derived cell (MDC), the
method comprising contacting the cell with a composition comprising a substrate with an Fc
reagent bound thereto.
    [00461]      93.    The method of claim 92, wherein the contacting is in vitro, in vivo, or ex
vivo.
    [00462]      94.    The method of claim 92, wherein the cell is in an animal.
    [00463]      95.    The method of claim 94, wherein the animal has or is at risk of developing
a monocyte derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC).
                                                112.

     [00464]     96.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is a dendritic cell.
     [00465]     97.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is a macrophage or a
monocyte.
     [00466]     98.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is an osteoclast.
     [00467]     99.    A method of treatment, the method comprising administering to an animal
a composition comprising a substrate having an Fc reagent bound thereto, wherein the animal
has or is at risk of developing a monocyte-derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC).
     [00468]     100.   The method of claim 94 or 99, wherein the animal is a human.
     [00469]     101.   The method of any of claims 92-100, wherein the Fc reagent comprises a
functional portion of a human Fc fragment.
     [00470]     102.   The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fc fragment is an IgGI Fc
fragment.
     [00471]     103.   The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fc fragment is an IgG3 Fc
fragment.
     [00472]     104.   The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fc fragment is an IgG2 or
IgG4 Fc fragment.
     [00473]     105.   The method of any of claims 92-104, wherein the Fc reagent comprises an
IgG molecule.
     [00474]     106.   The method of any of claims 92-100, wherein Fc reagent comprises a
functional portion of a non-human Fc fragment.
     [00475]     107.   The method of any of claims 92-106, wherein the substrate comprises a
synthetic polymer.
     [00476]     108.   The method of claim 107, wherein the synthetic polymer is selected from
the group consisting of nylon, teflon, dacron, polyvinyl chloride, PEU (poly (ester urethane)),
PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene), and PMMA (methyl methacrylate).
     [00477]     109.   The method of any of claims 92-107, wherein the substrate comprises a
metal or a metal alloy.
     [00478]     110.   The method of claim 109, wherein the metal or metal alloy is selected
from the group consisting of stainless steel, platinum, iridium, titanium, tantalum, nickel
titanium alloy, and cobalt-chromium alloy.
                                                113.

      [00479]    111.    The method of any of claims 92-110, wherein the substrate comprises
animal tissue or an animal tissue product.
      [00480]    112.    The method of claim 111, wherein the animal tissue is a tissue or organ
graft.
      [00481]    113.    The method of claim 111 or 112, wherein the animal tissue is bone (e.g.,
osteogenic bone) or cartilage.
      [00482]    114.    The method of any of claims 92-113, wherein the substrate comprises a
protein.
      [00483]    115.    The method of claims 92-114, wherein the substrate comprises collagen.
      [00484]    116.    The method of any of claims 92-115, wherein the substrate comprises
keratin.
      [00485]    117.    The method of any of claims 92-116, wherein the substrate comprises a
tissue matrix.
      [00486]    118.    The method of claim 117, wherein the tissue matrix is an acellular tissue
matrix.
      [00487]   119.     The method of any of claims 92-118, wherein the substrate comprises an
animal cell (e.g., tissue repair cells such as fibroblasts; mesenchymal stem cells).
      [00488]   120.     The method of any of claims 92-119, wherein the substrate is a hair
transplant plug.
      [00489]   121.     The method of any of claims 92-120, wherein the substrate comprises a
polysaccharide.
      [00490]   122.     The method of any of claims 92-121, wherein the substrate comprises
agarose.
      [00491]   123.     The method of any of claims 92-122, wherein the substrate comprises a
salt.
      [00492]   124.     The method of any of claims 92-123, wherein the substrate comprises
calcium sulfate.
      [00493]   125.     The method of any of claims 92-124, wherein the substrate comprises a
gel or cream.
      [00494]   126.     The method of any of claims 92-125, wherein the substrate comprises
silicon.
                                                   114.

     [00495]     127.   The method of any of claims 92-126, wherein the substrate comprises
silastic.
     [00496]     128.   The method of any of claims 92-127, wherein the substrate comprise a
natural fiber.
     [00497]     129.   The method of claim 128, wherein the natural fiber comprises silk, cotton,
or wool.
     [00498]     130.   The method of any of claims 92-129, wherein the substrate is an
implantable medical device.
     [00499]     131.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a stent (e.g.,
a vascular stent such as a coronary artery stent; an airway stent such as an endotracheal or nasal
stent; a gastrointestinal stent such a biliary or pancreatic stent; a urinary stent such as a ureteral
stent).
     [00500]     132.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a surgical
suture (e.g., a braid silk, chromic gut, nylon, plastic, or metal suture or a surgical clip (e.g., an
aneurism clip)).
     [00501]     133.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an artificial
hip, an artificial hip joint, an artificial knee, an artificial knee joint, an artificial shoulder, an
artificial shoulder joint, an artificial finger or toe joint, a bone plate, a bone dowel, a bone non
union implant, an intervertebral disk implant, bone cement, or a bone cement spacer.
     [00502]     134.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an arterial
venous shunt.
     [00503]    135.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is implantable
wire.
     [00504]    136.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is selected
from the group consisting of a pacemaker, an artificial heart, a heart assist device, a cochlear
implant, an implantable defibrillator, a spinal cord stimulator, a central nervous system
stimulator, and a peripheral nerve implant.
     [00505]    137.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a dental
prosthesis or a dental crown.
     [00506]    138.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a large
vessel embolic filtering device or cage.
                                                   115.

     [00507]     139.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a
percutaneous device.
     [00508]     140.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a dermal or
submucosal patch.
     [00509]     141.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an
implantable drug delivery device.
     [00510]     142.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a large blood
vessel graft, wherein the blood vessel is, for example, a carotid artery, a femoral artery, or an
aorta.
     [00511]     143.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a sub-dermal
implant.
     [00512]     144.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a corneal
implant, an intraocular lens, or a contact lens.
     [00513]     145.   The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a sheet, a
bead, a mesh, a powder particle, a thread, a bead, or a fiber.
     [00514]     146.   The method of any of claims 92-145, wherein the substrate comprises a
solid, a semi-solid or a gelatinous substance.
     [00515]     147.   The method of any of claims 92-146, wherein the substrate comprises a
fat-soluble lipid.
     [00516]     148.   The method of any of claims 92-147, wherein the substrate comprises a
liposome.
     [00517]     149.   The method of any of claims 95-148, wherein the MDCMC is an
inflammatory condition, an autoimmune disease, a cancer, a disorder of bone density, an acute
infection, or a chronic infection.
     [00518]     150.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
hematoimmunological process.
     [00519]     151.   The method of any of claims 95-150, wherein the MDCMC is Idiopathic
Thrombocytopenic      Purpura, alloimmune/autoimmune thrombocytopenia, Acquired immune
thrombocytopenia, Autoimmune neutropenia, Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Parvovirus B 19
associated red cell aplasia, Acquired antifactor VIII autoimmunity, acquired von Willebrand
disease, Multiple Myeloma and Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance, Sepsis,
                                                 116.

Aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, hemolytic disease of the
newborn, Immune-mediated neutropenia, refractoriness to platelet transfusion, neonatal, post
transfusion   purpura,   hemolytic    uremic      syndrome,   systemic   Vasculitis,  Thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura, or Evan's syndrome.
    [00520]     152.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
neuroimmunological process.
    [00521]     153.   The method of any of claims 95-149 and 152, wherein the MDCMC is
Guillain-Barr6   syndrome,    Chronic   Inflammatory     Demyelinating   Polyradiculoneuropathy,
Paraproteinemic IgM demyelinating Polyneuropathy, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome,
Myasthenia gravis, Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron Syndrome associated
with anti-GM1 antibodies, Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis and optic neuritis, Stiff Man
Syndrome, Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with anti-Yo antibodies, paraneoplastic
encephalomyelitis, sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu antibodies, epilepsy, Encephalitis, Myelitis,
Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1, Autoimmune
Diabetic Neuropathy, or Acute Idiopathic Dysautonomic Neuropathy.
    [00522]     154.   The method of any of claims 94-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
Rheumatic disease process.
    [00523]     155.   The method of any of claims 95-149 and 154, wherein the MDCMC is
Kawasaki's    disease, Rheumatoid     arthritis, Felty's syndrome,    ANCA-positive Vasculitis,
Spontaneous     Polymyositis,   Dermatomyositis,       Antiphospholipid   syndromes,    Recurrent
spontaneous abortions, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Raynaud's,
CREST syndrome, or Uveitis.
    [00524]     156.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
dermatoimmunological disease process.
    [00525]     157.   The method of any of claims 95-149 and 156, wherein the MDCMC is
Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis, Gangrene, Granuloma, Autoimmune skin blistering diseases
including Pemphigus vulgaris, Bullous Pemphigoid, and Pemphigus foliaceus, Vitiligo,
Streptococcal toxic shock syndrome, Scleroderma, systemic sclerosis including diffuse and
limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis, Atopic dermatitis, or steroid dependent Atopic dermatitis.
    [00526]     158.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
musculoskeletal immunological disease process.
                                                 117.

    [00527]      159.   The method of any of claims 95-149 and 158, wherein the MDCMC is
Inclusion Body Myositis, Necrotizing fasciitis, Inflammatory Myopathies, Myositis, Anti
Decorin (BJ antigen) Myopathy, Paraneoplastic Necrotic Myopathy, X-linked Vacuolated
Myopathy, Penacillamine-induced Polymyositis, Atherosclerosis, Coronary Artery Disease, or
Cardiomyopathy.
    [00528]      160.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a
gastrointestinal immunological disease process.
    [00529]      161.   The method of any of claims 95-149 and 160, wherein the MDCMC is
pernicious anemia, autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac disease,
dermatitis herpetiformis, cryptogenic cirrhosis, Reactive arthritis, Crohn's disease, Whipple's
disease, ulcerative colitis, or sclerosing cholangitis.
    [00530]      162.   The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is Graft
Versus Host Disease, Antibody-mediated rejection of the graft, Post-bone marrow transplant
rejection, Post-infectious disease inflammation, Lymphoma, Leukemia, Neoplasia, Asthma,
Type 1 Diabetes mellitus with anti-beta cell antibodies, Sjogren's syndrome, Mixed Connective
Tissue Disease, Addison's disease, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome, Membranoproliferative
glomerulonephritis,     Goodpasture's     syndrome,     Graves'   disease,  Hashimoto's thyroiditis,
Wegener's granulomatosis, micropolyarterits, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa or
Multisystem organ failure.
    [00531]      163.   The method of claim 149, wherein the cancer is selected from the group
consisting of fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma,
chordoma,              angiosarcoma,              endotheliosarcoma,             lymphangiosarcoma,
lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate
cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma,
sebaceous      gland      carcinoma,      papillary     carcinoma,     papillary    adenocarcinomas,
cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma,
hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms'
tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor, lung carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder
carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma,
ependymoma,        pinealoma,      hemangioblastoma,      acoustic    neuroma,    oligodendroglioma,
                                                  118.

meningioma,      melanoma,     neuroblastoma,   retinoblastoma,    leukemia,  lymphoma,    multiple
myeloma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, myelodysplastic disease, heavy chain disease,
neuroendocrine tumors, and Schwanoma,.
    [00532]      164.    The method of claim 149, wherein the disorder of bone density is selected
from    the    group     consisting   of  osteoporosis,     osteopenia,  osteopetrosis,  idiopathic
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, anorexia nervosa, non-healing fracture, post-menopausal
osteoporosis, Vitamin D deficiency or excess, primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism,
thyroid disease, or bisphosphonate toxicity.
    [00533]      165.    The method of claim 149, wherein the acute infection is selected from the
group consisting of fungal disorders including Candidiasis, Candidemia, Aspergillosis; bacterial
disorders including staphylococcus including Methicillin Resistant Staph aureus, streptococcal
skin and oropharyngeal conditions, and gram negative sepsis; mycobacterial infections including
tuberculosis; viral infections including mononucleosis, Respiratory Syntitial virus, and Herpes
zoster; parasitic infections including malaria, schistosomiasis, and trypanosomiasis.
    [00534]      166.    The method of claim 149, wherein the chronic infection is selected from
fungal disorders including onchyomycosis; bacterial disorders including Helicobacter pylori;
mycobacterial infections including tuberculosis; viral infections including Epstein Barr virus,
Human Papilloma Virus, and Herpes Simplex; parasitic infections including malaria and
schistosomiasis.
    [00535]      167.    The method of claim 95 or 99, wherein the MDCMC is caused by the
substrate.
    [00536]      168.    A composition comprising an implantable or attachable medical device
and a Fc reagent bound thereto.
    [00537]      169.    A kit comprising an implantable or attachable medical device and an Fc
reagent.
    [00538]      170.    The   kit of claim     169,   further  comprising   a suitable  container.
                                                 119.

LIST OF REFERENCES
The following references arc incorporated by reference in their entirety.
1.      Smiley, D. & MG, T. Southwestern internal medicine conference: High dose intravenous
       gamma globulin therapy: How does it work? Am JMed Sci 309, 295-303 (1995).
2.     Nimmerjahn, F. & Ravetch, J.V. The antiinflammatory activity of IgG: the intravenous
       IgG paradox. J. Exp. Med. 204, 11-15 (2007).
3.      Samuelsson, A., Towers, T.L. & Ravetch, J.V. Anti-inflammatory Activity of IVIG
       Mediated Through the Inhibitory Fc Receptor. Science 291, 484-486 (2001).
4.     Follea, G. et al. Intravenous plasmin-treated gammaglobulin therapy in idiopathic
       thrombocytopenic purpura. Nouv Rev Fr Hematol 27, 5-10 (1985).
5.      Solal-Celigny, P., Bernard, J., Herrera, A. & Biovin, P. Treatment of adult autoimmune
       thrombocytopenic purpura with high-dose intravenous plasmin-cleaved gammaglobulins.
       ScandJHaematol31, 39-44 (1983).
6.     Debre, M. & Bonnet, M.-C. Infusion of Gcgamma fragments for treatment of children
       with acute immune thrombocytopenic purpura. Lancet 342, 945-49 (1993).
7.     Burdach, S.E., Evers, K. & Geurson, R. Treatment of acute idiopathic thrombocytopenic
       purpura of childhood with intravenous immunoglobulin G: Comparative efficacy of 7S
       and 5S preparations. JPediatr109, 770-775 (1986).
8.      Siragam, V. et al. Intravenous       immunoglobulin     ameliorates ITP via activating
       Fe[gamma] receptors on dendritic cells. Nat Med 12, 688 (2006).
9.     Clarkson, S. et al. Treatment of refractory immune thrombocytopenic purpura with an
       anti-Fe gamma-receptor antibody. NEnglJMed 314, 1236-1239 (1986).
10.    Bleeker, W.K. et al. Vasoactive side effects of intravenous immunoglobulin preparations
       in a rat model       and their treatment with recombinant          platelet-activating   factor
       acetylhydrolase. Blood 95, 1856-1861 (2000).
11.    Teeling, J.L. et al. Therapeutic efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin preparations
       depends    on the     immunoglobulin     G    dimers: studies   in experimental        immune
       thrombocytopenia. Blood 98, 1095-1099 (2001).
12.    Augener, W., Friedman, B. & Brittinger, G. Are aggregates of IgG the effective part of
       high-dose immunoglobulin therapy in adult idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)?
       Blut 50, 249-252 (1985).
                                                120.

13. Tankersley, D.L., Preston, M.S. & Finlayson, J.S. Immunoglobulin G dimer: An
    idiotypeanti-idiotype complex. MolecularImmunology 25, 41 (1988).
14. Robert L. Shields, Angela K. Namenuk, Kyu Hong, Y. Gloria Meng, Julie Rae, John
    Briggs, Dong Xie, Jadine Lai, Andrew Stadlen, Betty Li, Judith A. Fox, and Leonard G.
    Presta. High Resolution Mapping of the Binding Site on Human IgGI for FcyR1, FcyRII,
    FcyRIII, and FcRn and Design of IgGI Variants with Improved Binding to the FOR J.
    Biol. Chem., Feb 2001; 276: 6591 - 6604; doi:10.1074/jbc.M009483200
15. Sondermann, P., Huber, R., Oosthuizen, V., and Jacob, U. (2000) Nature 406, 267-273
16. Robert L. Shields, Jadine Lai, Rodney Keck, Lori Y. O'Connell, Kyu Hong, Y. Gloria
    Meng, Stefanie H. A. Weikert, and Leonard G. Presta Lack of Fucose on Human IgG 1 N
    Linked Oligosaccharide Improves Binding to Human FcyRIII and Antibody-dependent
    Cellular   Toxicity.     J.  Biol.    Chem.,   Jul  2002;   277:    26733   -   26740
    oi: 10.1074/jbc.M202069200
17. Ann Wright and Sherie L. Morrison. Effect of C2-Associated Carbohydrate Structure on
    Ig Effector Function: Studies with Chimeric Mouse-Human             IgGI Antibodies in
    Glycosylation Mutants of Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells. J. Immunol., Apr 1998; 160:
    3393 - 3402.
18. Crow AR, et al. IVIg inhibits reticuloendothelial system function and ameliorates murine
    passive immune thrombocytopenia independent of antiidiotype reactivity. Br J Haematol.
    2001; 115:679-686.
19. Inhibition of maturation and function of dendritic cells by intravenous immunoglobulin
    Jagadeesh Bayry, Sebastien Lacroix-Desmazes, Cedric Carbonneil, Namita Misra,
    Vladimira Donkova, Anastas Pashov, Alain Chevailler, Luc Mouthon, Bernard Weill,
    Patrick Bruneval, Michel D. Kazatchkine, and Srini V. Kaveri Blood 2003 101: 758-765.
    Prepublished online August 29, 2002; DOI 10.1182/blood-2002-05-1447
20. R. Deng and J. P. Balthasar. Comparison of the effects of antibody-coated liposomes,
    IVIG, and anti-RBC immunotherapy in a murine model of passive chronic immune
    thrombocytopenia. Blood, March 15, 2007; 109(6): 2470 - 2476. Prepublished online as a
    Blood First Edition Paper on November 28, 2006; DOI 10.1 182/blood-2006-04-018093.
                                            121.

21. Kabat, E. A., Wu, T. T., Perry, H. M., Gottesman, K. S., and Foeller, C. (1991)
    Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed., United States Public Health
    Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda
22. U.S. Published Patent Application 20060074225.
                                             122.

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     An isolated serial stradomer comprising two or more associated stradomer monomers,
wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two or more Fc domain monomers,
wherein the association of the two or more stradomer monomers forms two or more Fc domains,
and wherein the serial stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through a first of the
two or more Fc domains and to a second Fey receptor through a second of the two or more Fc
domains.
2.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more stradomer
monomers are associated through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or chemical cross-linking.
3.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the isolated serial stradomer
comprises two associated stradomer monomers.
4.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the isolated serial stradomer
comprises two associated stradomer monomers, wherein both of said stradomer monomers
comprises two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two stradomer
monomers forms two Fc domains.
5.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
6.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
7.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
8.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
9.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fc
domains comprises an IgG 1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgG 1 CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
                                               123.

10.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein at least one of the two Fe domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain.
11.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
12.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
13.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
14.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 4, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
15.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the first and second Fcy
receptors are each independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an
Fcy receptor IV.
16.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are
each Fcy receptor Ila.
17.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more Fc domains are each of
a same immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the group
consisting of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4.
18.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 1, wherein the two or more Fc domains are each of
a different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the
group consisting of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.
19.     An isolated serial stradomer comprising two associated stradomer monomers, wherein
each of said stradomer monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers, wherein the association
of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains, wherein each of said two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain, and
wherein the serial stradomer specifically binds to a first Fcy receptor through afirst of the two Fe
domains and to a second Fey receptor through a second of the two Fc domains.
20.     The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein the two Fc domains are each of a same
immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the group
consisting of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4.
                                                124.

21.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein the two Fc domains are each of a
different immunoglobulin Fc class, and said immunoglobulin Fc class is selected from the group
consisting of IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.
22.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fe domains
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
23.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
24.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fe domains
comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
25.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
26.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein at least one of the Fe
domains comprises an IgG 1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgG 1 CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
27.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
28.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains independently
comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
29.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains independently
comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
30.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, wherein each of the Fe domains independently
comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
31.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 19, further comprising a Fab domain, wherein each
of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain and two Fc domain
monomers, wherein the Fab fragment heavy chain is in a position amino terminal or carboxy
terminal to the two Fc domain monomers, wherein an Fab fragment light chain is independently
associated with each Fab fragment heavy chain, and wherein the Fab domain has antigen-binding
activity.
32.      The isolated serial stradomer of claim 31, wherein each of said stradomer monomers
further comprises an immunoglobulin hinge monomer, and wherein the immunoglobulin hinge
                                                 125.

monomer is in a position between the Fab fragment heavy chain and the two Fc domain
monomers.
33.      A core stradomer comprising a core moiety linked to two or more core
stradomer units, wherein each of said two or more core stradomer units comprises at least one Fc
domain, and wherein each of said core stradomer units is independently selected from the group
consisting of:
         (a) an Fc fragment, wherein said Fc fragment comprises two associated Fc
fragment monomers, wherein each of said Fc fragment monomers comprises an Fc domain
monomer, and wherein the association of the two Fc fragment monomers forms an Fc domain,
         (b) an Fc partial fragment, wherein said Fc partial fragment comprises two associated Fc
partial fragment monomers, wherein each of said Fc partial fragment monomers comprises an Fc
domain monomer, and wherein the association of the two Fc partial fragment monomers forms
an Fc domain,
         (c) an Fc domain, wherein said Fc domain comprises two associated Fc domain
monomers, and wherein the association of the two Fc domain monomers forms an Fc domain,
         (d) a serial stradomer, wherein said serial stradomer comprises two or more
associated stradomer monomers, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises two or
more Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two or more stradomer
monomers forms two or more Fe domains, and
         (e) a cluster stradomer, wherein said cluster stradomer comprises two or more
multimerized cluster stradomer units, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises a
multimerizing region and at least one Fe domain, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units
comprises two associated cluster stradomer unit monomers, wherein each of said cluster
stradomer unit monomers comprises a multimerizing region monomer and at least one Fc
domain monomer, wherein the association of the two cluster stradomer unit monomers forms a
multimerizing region and at least one Fc domain, and wherein the multimerizing regions of the
two or more cluster stradomer units multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and
wherein the core stradomer specifically binds to a first Fey receptor through a first of the two or
more core stradomer units and to a second Fey receptor through a second of the two or more core
stradomer units.
                                                  126.

34.      The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the core moiety is selected from the group
consisting of an immunoglubin J chain, albumin, liposome, bead, peptide and polyethylene
glycol.
35.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the two or more core stradomer units are each
independently an Fc fragment.
36.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the two or more core stradomer units are each
independently a serial stradomer.
37.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the core stradomer comprises two core
stradomer units, wherein each of the two core stradomer units is each independently a serial
stradomer, wherein the serial stradomer comprises two associated stradomer monomers, wherein
both of said stradomer monomers comprises two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the
association of the two stradomer monomers forms two Fc domains.
38.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of the two or
more core stradomer units comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an
IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
39. The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of the two or more
two core stradomer units comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgGI CH2 domain.
40.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fe domains of the two or more two
core stradomer units independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI
CH3 domain.
41.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein at least one of the Fc domains of the two or
more two core stradomer units comprises an an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
42.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the two or more two
core stradomer units independently comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
43.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the two or more two
core stradomer units independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3
CH3 domain.
44.     The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein each of the Fc domains of the two or more two
core stradomer units independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3
CH3 domain.
                                               127.

45.      The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are each
independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV.
46.      The core stradomer of claim 33, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are each Fcy
receptor Ila.
47.      A cluster stradomer comprising two or more multimerized cluster stradomer units,
wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises a multimerizing region and at least one
Fc domain, wherein each of said cluster stradomer units comprises two associated cluster
stradomer unit monomers, wherein each of said cluster stradomer unit monomers comprises a
multimerizing region monomer and at least one Fc domain monomer, wherein the association of
the two cluster stradomer unit monomers forms a multimerizing region and at least one Fc
domain, wherein the multimerizing regions of the two or more cluster stradomer units
multimerize to form the cluster stradomer, and wherein the cluster stradomer specifically binds
to a first Fcy receptor through a first Fc domain and to a second Fcy receptor through a second
Fc domain.
48.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the multimerizing region is selected from the
group consisting of an IgG2 hinge, an IgE CH2 domain, a leucine, an isoleucine zipper and a
zinc finger.
49.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising two multimerized cluster stradomer units.
50.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising three multimerized cluster stradomer units.
51.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising four multimerized cluster stradomer units.
52.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, comprising five multimerized cluster stradomer units.
53.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the Fc domains comprises an
IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3
domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
54.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
55.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the Fc domains comprises an
IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
56.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH2 domain.
57.      The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
                                                 128.

independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
58.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
59.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
60.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein at least one of the cluster stradomer units
comprises two or more Fc domains.
61.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein each of the cluster stradomer units comprises
two or more Fc domains.
62.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are each
independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor IV.
63.     The cluster stradomer of claim 47, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are each
Fcy receptor Ila.
64.     A stradobody comprising two or more associated stradomer monomers and an Fab
domain, wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy chain and
two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein the Fab fragment heavy chain is in a position amino
terminal or carboxy terminal to the two or more Fc domain monomers, wherein the association
of the two or more stradomer monomers forms two or more Fc domains, wherein an Fab
fragment light chain is independently associated with the Fab fragment heavy chain of each
stradomer monomer, wherein the Fab domain has antigenbinding activity, and wherein the
stradobody specifically binds to a first Fey receptor through a first of the two or more Fc
domains and to a second Fcy receptor through a second of the two or more Fc domains.
65.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the two or more stradomer monomers are associated
through a covalent bond, a disulfide bond or chemical cross-linking.
66.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein each of said stradomer monomers further comprises
an immunoglobulin hinge monomer, and wherein the immunoglobulin hinge monomer is in a
position between the Fab fragment heavy chain and the two Fc domain monomers.
67.     The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the stradobody comprises two associated stradomer
monomers, wherein wherein each of said stradomer monomers comprises an Fab fragment heavy
chain and two Fc domain monomers, and wherein the association of the two stradomer
monomers forms two Fc domains.
                                                 129.

68.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an
IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
69.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fe domains
independently comprises an IgG hinge, an IgG CH2 domain and an IgG CH3 domain.
70.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fe domains comprises an
IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain.
71.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the Fc two domains independently
comprises an IgG hinge and an IgG CH3 domain.
72.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains
comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an
IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
73.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge or an IgG3 hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2
domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain or an IgG3 CH3 domain.
74.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgGI CH3 domain.
75.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgG3 hinge, an IgG3 CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
76.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein each of the two Fc domains
independently comprises an IgGI hinge, an IgGI CH2 domain, and an IgG3 CH3 domain.
77.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an
IgG 1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgG 1 CH2 domain or an IgG3 CH2 domain.
78.    The stradobody of claim 67, wherein at least one of the two Fc domains comprises an
IgG 1 hinge or an IgG3 hinge, and an IgG 1 CH2 domain.
79.    The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are
each independently an Fcy receptor I, an Fcy receptor II, an Fcy receptor III or an Fcy receptor
IV.
80.    The stradobody of claim 64, wherein the first and second Fcy receptors are each Fcy
receptor Ila.
81.    A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
                                              130.

administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a serial stradomer of claim 1 and a carrier or diluent.
82.      A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a core stradomer of claim 33 and a carrier or diluent.
83.      A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a cluster stradomer of claim 47 and a carrier or diluent.
84.      A method of altering an immune response in a subject comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a stradobody of claim 64 and a carrier or diluent.
85.      The method of claim 81, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of serial stradomers and a carrier or
diluent
86.      The method of claim 82, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of core stradomers and a carrier or
diluent
87.      The method of claim 83, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of cluster stradomers and a carrier
or diluent
88.      The method of claim 84, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a
therapeutically effective amount of a heterogeneous mixture of stradobodies and a carrier or
diluent
89.      A method of screening an antibody for a specific activity on a cell of the immune system,
comprising:
         (a) contacting a homogenous population of cells of the immune system with a candidate
antibody,
         (b) measuring an activity of the population of cells of (a),
         (c) contacting a homogenous population of cells of the same cell type as in (a) with a
serial stradomer of claim 1,
                                                 131.

        (d) measuring an activity of the population of cells of (c), and (e) comparing the activity
measured in (b) with the activity measured in (d), thereby screening an antibody for a specific
activity on a cell of the immune system.
90.     The method of claim 89, wherein the candidate antibody and the serial stradomer are
species-matched and isotype-matched.
91.     The method of claim 89, wherein the comparison in (e) is a ratio of activity measured in
(d) versus the activity measured in (b).
92.     A method of inhibiting the activity of a monocyte-derived cell (MDC), the
method comprising contacting the cell with a composition comprising a substrate with an Fc
reagent bound thereto.
93.     The method of claim 92, wherein the contacting is in vitro, in vivo, or ex vivo.
94.     The method of claim 92, wherein the cell is in an animal.
95.     The method of claim 94, wherein the animal has or is at risk of developing a monocyte
derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC).
96.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is a dendritic cell.
97.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is a macrophage or a monocyte.
98.     The method of any of claims 92-95, wherein the cell is an osteoclast.
99.     A method of treatment, the method comprising administering to an animal a composition
comprising a substrate having an Fc reagent bound thereto, wherein the animal has or is at risk of
developing a monocyte-derived cell mediated condition (MDCMC).
100.    The method of claim 94 or 99, wherein the animal is a human.
101.    The method of any of claims 92-100, wherein the Fc reagent comprises a functional
portion of a human Fc fragment.
102.    The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fc fragment is an IgG 1 Fc fragment.
103.    The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fe fragment is an IgG3 Fc fragment.
104.    The method of claim 101, wherein the human Fe fragment is an IgG2 or IgG4 Fc
fragment.
105.    The method of any of claims 92-104, wherein the Fe reagent comprises an IgG molecule.
106. The method of any of claims 92-100, wherein Fc reagent comprises a functional portion of a
non-human Fc fragment.
                                                132.

107.      The method of any of claims 92-106, wherein the substrate comprises a synthetic
polymer.
108.      The method of claim 107, wherein the synthetic polymer is selected from the group
consisting of nylon, teflon, dacron, polyvinyl chloride, PEU (poly (ester urethane)), PTFE
(polytetrafluoroethylene), and PMMA (methyl methacrylate).
109.      The method of any of claims 92-107, wherein the substrate comprises a metal or a metal
alloy.
110.      The method of claim 109, wherein the metal or metal alloy is selected from the group
consisting of stainless steel, platinum, iridium, titanium, tantalum, nickel-titanium alloy, and
cobalt-chromium alloy.
111.      The method of any of claims 92-110, wherein the substrate comprises animal tissue or an
animal tissue product.
112.      The method of claim 111, wherein the animal tissue is a tissue or organ graft.
113.      The method of claim 111 or 112, wherein the animal tissue is bone (e.g., osteogenic
bone) or cartilage.
114.      The method of any of claims 92-113, wherein the substrate comprises a protein.
115.      The method of claims 92-114, wherein the substrate comprises collagen.
116.      The method of any of claims 92-115, wherein the substrate comprises keratin.
117.      The method of any of claims 92-116, wherein the substrate comprises a tissue matrix.
118.      The method of claim 117, wherein the tissue matrix is an acellular tissue matrix.
119.      The method of any of claims 92-118, wherein the substrate comprises an animal cell
(e.g., tissue repair cells such as fibroblasts; mesenchymal stem cells).
120.      The method of any of claims 92-119, wherein the substrate is a hair transplant plug.
121.      The method of any of claims 92-120, wherein the substrate comprises a polysaccharide.
122.      The method of any of claims 92-12 1, wherein the substrate comprises agarose.
123.      The method of any of claims 92-122, wherein the substrate comprises a salt.
124.      The method of any of claims 92-123, wherein the substrate comprises calcium sulfate.
125.      The method of any of claims 92-124, wherein the substrate comprises a gel or cream.
126.      The method of any of claims 92-125, wherein the substrate comprises silicon.
127.      The method of any of claims 92-126, wherein the substrate comprises silastic.
128.      The method of any of claims 92-127, wherein the substrate comprise a natural fiber.
                                                  133.

 129.    The method of claim 128, wherein the natural fiber comprises silk, cotton, or wool.
 130.    The method of any of claims 92-129, wherein the substrate is an implantable medical
device.
 131.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a stent (e.g., a
vascular stent such as a coronary artery stent; an airway stent such as an endotracheal or nasal
stent; a gastrointestinal stent such a biliary or pancreatic stent; a urinary stent such as a ureteral
stent)
 132.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a surgical suture (e.g., a
braid silk, chromic gut, nylon, plastic, or metal suture or a surgical clip (e.g., an aneurism clip)).
 133.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an artificial hip, an artificial
hip joint, an artificial knee, an artificial knee joint, an artificial shoulder, an artificial shoulder
joint, an artificial finger or toe joint, a bone plate, a bone dowel, a bone non-union implant, an
intervertebral disk implant, bone cement, or a bone cement spacer.
 134.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an arterialvenous shunt.
 135.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is implantable wire.
 136. The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is selected from the group
consisting of a pacemaker, an artificial heart, a heart assist device, a cochlear implant, an
implantable defibrillator, a spinal cord stimulator, a central nervous system stimulator, and a
peripheral nerve implant.
 137.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a dental prosthesis or a
dental crown.
 138.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a large vessel embolic
filtering device or cage.
 139.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a percutaneous device.
 140.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a dermal or submucosal
patch.
 141.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is an implantable drug
delivery device.
 142.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a large blood
vessel graft, wherein the blood vessel is, for example, a carotid artery, a femoral artery, or an
aorta.
                                                    134.

143.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a sub-dermal implant.
144.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a comeal implant, an
intraocular lens, or a contact lens.
145.    The method of any of claims 92-130, wherein the substrate is a sheet, a bead, a mesh, a
powder particle, a thread, a bead, or a fiber.
146.    The method of any of claims 92-145, wherein the substrate comprises a solid, a semi
solid or a gelatinous substance.
147.    The method of any of claims 92-146, wherein the substrate comprises a fatsoluble lipid.
148.    The method of any of claims 92-147, wherein the substrate comprises a liposome.
149.    The method of any of claims 95-148, wherein the MDCMC is an
inflammatory condition, an autoimmune disease, a cancer, a disorder of bone density, an acute
infection, or a chronic infection.
150.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a hematoimmunological
process.
151.    The method of any of claims 95-150, wherein the MDCMC is Idiopathic
Thrombocytopenic Purpura, alloimmune/autoimmune thrombocytopenia, Acquired immune
thrombocytopenia, Autoimmune neutropenia, Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Parvovirus B 19
associated red cell aplasia, Acquired antifactor VIII autoimmunity, acquired von Willebrand
disease, Multiple Myeloma and Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance, Sepsis,
Aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, hemolytic disease of the
newborn, Immune-mediated neutropenia, refractoriness to platelet transfusion, neonatal, post
transfusion purpura, hemolytic uremic syndrome, systemic Vasculitis, Thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura, or Evan's syndrome.
152.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a neuroimmunological
process.
153.    The method of any of claims 95-149 and 152, wherein the MDCMC is
Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy,
Paraproteinemic IgM demyelinating Polyneuropathy, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome,
Myasthenia gravis, Multifocal Motor Neuropathy, Lower Motor Neuron Syndrome associated
with anti-GM 1 antibodies, Demyelination, Multiple Sclerosis and optic neuritis, Stiff Man
Syndrome, Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration with anti-Yo antibodies, paraneoplastic
                                                 135.

encephalomyelitis, sensory neuropathy with anti-Hu antibodies, epilepsy, Encephalitis, Myelitis,
Myelopathy especially associated with Human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1, Autoimmune
Diabetic Neuropathy, or Acute Idiopathic Dysautonomic Neuropathy.
154.    The method of any of claims 94-149, wherein the MDCMC is a Rheumatic disease
process.
155.    The method of any of claims 95-149 and 154, wherein the MDCMC is Kawasaki's
disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, Felty's syndrome, ANCA-positive Vasculitis, Spontaneous
Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis, Antiphospholipid syndromes, Recurrent spontaneous abortions,
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, Raynaud's, CREST syndrome, or
Uveitis.
156.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a dermatoimmunological
disease process.
157.    The method of any of claims 95-149 and 156, wherein the MDCMC is Toxic Epidermal
Necrolysis, Gangrene, Granuloma, Autoimmune skin blistering diseases including Pemphigus
vulgaris, Bullous Pemphigoid, and Pemphigus foliaceus, Vitiligo, Streptococcal toxic shock
syndrome, Scleroderma, systemic sclerosis including diffuse and limited cutaneous systemic
sclerosis, Atopic dermatitis, or steroid dependent Atopic dermatitis.
158.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a musculoskeletal
immunological disease process.
159.    The method of any of claims 95-149 and 158, wherein the MDCMC is Inclusion Body
Myositis, Necrotizing fasciitis, Inflammatory Myopathies, Myositis, AntiDecorin (BJ antigen)
Myopathy, Paraneoplastic Necrotic Myopathy, X-linked Vacuolated Myopathy, Penacillamine
induced Polymyositis, Atherosclerosis, Coronary Artery Disease, or Cardiomyopathy.
160.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is a gastrointestinal
immunological disease process.
161.    The method of any of claims 95-149 and 160, wherein the MDCMC is pernicious
anemia, autoimmune chronic active hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, Celiac disease, dermatitis
herpetiformis, cryptogenic cirrhosis, Reactive arthritis, Crohn's disease, Whipple's disease,
ulcerative colitis, or sclerosing cholangitis.
162.    The method of any of claims 95-149, wherein the MDCMC is Graft Versus Host Disease,
Antibody-mediated rejection of the graft, Post-bone marrow transplant rejection, Post-infectious
                                                136.

disease inflammation, Lymphoma, Leukemia, Neoplasia, Asthma, Type 1 Diabetes mellitus with
anti-beta cell antibodies, Sjogren's syndrome, Mixed Connective Tissue Disease, Addison's
disease, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome, Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis,
Goodpasture's syndrome, Graves' disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Wegener's granulomatosis,
micropolyarterits, Churg-Strauss syndrome, Polyarteritis nodosa or Multisystem organ failure.
163. The method of claim 149, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of
fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma,
angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma,
synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, colon
carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, squamous cell
carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland
carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary
carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma,
choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical cancer, testicular
tumor, lung carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma,
glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, melanoma,
neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia, myelodysplastic disease, heavy chain disease,neuroendocrine tumors, and
Schwanoma,.
164.    The method of claim 149, wherein the disorder of bone density is selected from the group
consisting of osteoporosis, osteopenia, osteopetrosis, idiopathic hypogonadotropic
hypogonadism, anorexia nervosa, non-healing fracture, post-menopausal osteoporosis, Vitamin
D deficiency or excess, primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism, thyroid disease, or
bisphosphonate toxicity.
165.    The method of claim 149, wherein the acute infection is selected from the group
consisting of fungal disorders including Candidiasis, Candidemia, Aspergillosis; bacterial
disorders including staphylococcus including Methicillin Resistant Staph aureus, streptococcal
skin and oropharyngeal conditions, and gram negative sepsis; mycobacterial infections including
tuberculosis; viral infections including mononucleosis, Respiratory Syntitial virus, and Herpes
zoster; parasitic infections including malaria, schistosomiasis, and trypanosomiasis.
                                                 137.

166.    The method of claim 149, wherein the chronic infection is selected from
fungal disorders including onchyomycosis; bacterial disorders including Helicobacter pylori;
mycobacterial infections including tuberculosis; viral infections including Epstein Barr virus,
Human Papilloma Virus, and Herpes Simplex; parasitic infections including malaria and
schistosomiasis.
167.    The method of claim 95 or 99, wherein the MDCMC is caused by the substrate.
168.    A composition comprising an implantable or attachable medical device and a Fc reagent
bound thereto.
169.    A kit comprising an implantable or attachable medical device and an Fc.
170.    The kit of claim 169, further comprising a suitable container.
                                               138.

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
8/49

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
10/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
11/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
12/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
13/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
14/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
15/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
16/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
17/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
18/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
19/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
20/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
21/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
22/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
23/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
24/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
25/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
26/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
27/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
28/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
29/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
30/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
31/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
32/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
33/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
35/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
36/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
37/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
38/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
39/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
40/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
41/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
42/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
43/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
44/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
45/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
46/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
47/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
48/49

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
49/49

