                                             ABSTRACT
          The present disclosure is directed to lens, methods of making, designing lens and/or
  methods using lens in which performance may be improved by providing one or more steps in
5 the central portion of the optical zone and one or more steps in the peripheral portion of the optic
  zone. In some embodiments, such lens may be useful for correcting refractive error of an eye
  and/or for controlling eye growth.

                                                       1
               OPHTHALMIC OPTICAL LENS FOR VISION CORRECTION
             HAVING ONE OR MORE AREAS OF MORE POSITIVE POWER
                                                   Cross Reference
 5         Australian Provisional Application No. 2012905371, filed December 10, 2012, entitled
   "Optical Lens for Vision Correction Having One or More Areas of More Positive Power" is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. And U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/889,189,
   filed October 10, 2013 entitled "Ophthalmic Optical Lens for Vision Correction Having One or
   More Areas of More Positive Power" is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
10                                                   Field
            This disclosure relates to ophthalmic optical lenses designed to correct refractive errors of
   an eye and/or to control eye growth and/or additionally having one or more areas of more
   positive power, and methods of using such ophthalmic optical lens designs. This disclosure also
   relates to ophthalmic optical lenses designed to correct refractive errors of an eye and having one
15 or more areas of more positive power. Certain embodiments may be applied to or realized as, for
   example, contact lenses, intraocular lenses, corneal onlays and corneal inlays, and/or can be
   applied to or used to at least reduce refractive errors of the eye such as myopia, hyperopia,
   astigmatism and presbyopia, but is of particular interest in relation to contact lenses, especially to
   provide contact lenses designed for correction of myopia and/or control of the progression of
20 myopia. Certain embodiments may be applied to or realized as, for example, contact lenses,
   intraocular lenses, corneal onlays and corneal inlays, and/or can be applied to, especially
   optically connected to, the eye for the correction of presbyopia. In some embodiments, the
   disclosure is applicable to or is realized as bifocal and/or multifocal contact lenses.
25                                               Background
           Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
   knowledge in the field.
           A basic bifocal or multifocal ophthalmic lens such as an intraocular lens, a corneal onlay,
30 a corneal inlay, or a contact lens has a central area of the optical zone with an optical power that
   provides distance vision and an annular area about the central area with a power that gives near

                                                      2
   vision (i.e. center-distance bifocals or multifocals). Another basic bifocal or multifocal
   ophthalmic lens has a central area of the optical zone with an optical power that provides near
   vision and an annular area about the central area with a power that gives distance vision (i.e.
   center-near bifocals or multifocals). The optical zone of a contact lens may be approximately the
 5 size of the pupil. The pupil diameter may vary in the range 3 mm to 8 mm and the optical zone
   size of a contact lens may be selected accordingly. Some contact lenses designed for controlling
   the progression of myopia or correcting presbyopia rely on the use of an optical power in at least
   one area of the optical zone that is relatively positive compared to the distance power, wherein
   the distance power is for example defined as a power of a lens required to provide the
10 appropriate refractive correction to the eye when the eye is viewing distant visual objects. The
   one or more areas of this relatively more positive power can be located centrally or in the
   periphery of the optical zone or both, wherein periphery is for example the zone of the contact
   lens that lies at a greater distance from the optical axis than the central zone and/or the area with
   an optical power providing distance vision.
15         The presence of additional relatively positive power in the optical zone of the contact lens
   is often reported by wearers to be causing effects that diminish vision performance or visual
   performance. Such effects include subjective complaints of doubling, ghosting, looking through
   a fish bowl (i.e. distortion) and/or in some instances a decrease in high and low contrast visual
   acuity. A decrease in low contrast visual acuity may also be reported as a decrease in contrast. A
20 decrease in contrast may be identified and/or measured as a loss in contrast sensitivity.
           It is an object of the present disclosure to provide an ophthalmic lens that for the wearer
   results in suitable or improved vision performance or visual performance in one or more aspects
   of vision performance or visual performance. It is also an object of the present disclosure to
   provide an ophthalmic lens that for the wearer results in suitable or improvement in vision
25 performance or visual performance and has additional relatively positive power compared to
   distance power in the optical zone. It is also an object of the present disclosure to provide an
   ophthalmic lens that corrects refractive errors of an eye and has one or more areas of relatively
   positive power in the optical zone. It is another object of the present disclosure to provide an
   ophthalmic lens that corrects refractive errors of an eye, has one or more areas of relatively
30 positive power compared to distance power in the optical zone and provides suitable or improved
   visual performance or vision performance in one or more aspects of vision performance.
   Combinations of one or more of these objectives are also contemplated. It is also an object of the
   present disclosure to provide methods of using such lens. Suitable or improvement in vision

                                                    3
   performance or visual performance may be one or more of the following: clarity of vision,
   degree of doubling, degree of ghosting, distortion, contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and
   overall quality of vision.
           The prior art lenses and methods have the drawback that with the addition of more
 5 positive power in the optic zone, then vision performance or visual performance is affected. The
   present disclosure is directed to overcome and/or ameliorate at least one of the disadvantages of
   the prior art as will become apparent from the discussion herein by providing more positive
   power in the optic zone by use of steps in one or more regions of the optic zone. This results in
   lenses that may be used both for correction of myopia and/or control of the progression of
10 myopia. This also results in lenses that may be used to correct refractive errors of an eye such as
   myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and/or presbyopia without substantially affecting one or more
   aspects of vision performance or visual performance, for example without substantially changing
   ghosting. This also results in lens that may be used to correct refractive errors of an eye with
   suitable or improvement in vision performance or visual performance and to control of eye
15 growth. Accordingly, methods of designing, methods of use and lenses for solving these and
   other problems disclosed herein are desirable. The present disclosure is directed to overcome
   and/or ameliorate at least one of the disadvantages of the prior art as will become apparent from
   the discussion herein.
           Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
20 acknowledgment or form of a suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general
   knowledge in Australia or other jurisdictions or that this prior art could reasonably be expected
   to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
                                                Summary
25         It has been found that one or more of the aspects of visual performance or vision
   performance may be improved by providing one or more steps, two or more steps, or three or
   more steps, in the optical power transition between the areas of the optical zone having more
   negative and more positive optical powers. It has also been found that use of power profiles with
   step functions moderates distractive images leading to a positive effect to improve one or more
30 of the aspects of visual performance or vision performance. Suitable or improvements in vision
   performance or visual performance may be one or more of the following: clarity of vision,
   degree of doubling, degree of ghosting, distortion, contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity,
   and overall quality of vision. Clarity of vision may, for example, be assessed using a clinical

                                                       4
   questionnaire quantified by a I to 10 numerical rating scale where 1 = extremely good clarity
   and 10 = extremely poor clarity of vision. Degree of doubling may, for example, be assessed
   using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating scale where 1 = no
   observable doubling of visual image and 10 = extremely pronounced doubling of visual image.
 5 Degree of ghosting may, for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1
   to 10 numerical rating scale where 1 = no observable ghosting associated with the visual image
   and 10 = extremely pronounced ghosting associated with the visual image. Distortion may, for
   example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating scale
   where I   = no observable distortion of the visual image and 10     =  severe distortion of the visual
10 image. Contrast may, for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a I to
   10 numerical rating scale where I = extremely poor contrast in the visual image and 10 =
   excellent contrast in the visual image. Contrast sensitivity may, for example, be measured using
   a contrast sensitivity test chart such as a letter-based contrast sensitivity chart (e.g. Pelli-Robson
   chart) or a since-wave grating based contrast sensitivity chart (e.g. Functional Acuity Contrast
15 Test, or FACT, chart). Visual acuity may, for example, be measured using a visual acuity test
   chart such as a Snellen chart or a Bailey-Lovie chart, for which the test may be applied under
   high illumination or low illumination, and/or for which the chart may be high contrast, medium
   contrast, or low contrast. Overall quality of vision may, for example, be assessed using a clinical
   questionnaire quantified by a I to 10 numerical rating scale where I = extremely good overall
20 quality of vision and 10 = extremely poor overall quality of vision.
           In certain embodiments, one or more aspects of visual performance or vision performance
   may be positively affected or improved by providing one or more steps in the central portion of
   the optical zone and one or more steps in the peripheral portion of the optic zone. In certain
   embodiments, one or more aspects of visual performance or vision performance may be
25 positively affected or improved by providing two or more steps in the central portion of the
   optical zone and two or more steps in the peripheral portion of the optic zone. In certain
   embodiments, one or more aspects of visual performance or vision performance may be
   positively affected or improved by providing two or more steps in the central portion of the
   optical zone and three or more steps in the peripheral portion of the optic zone. In certain
30 embodiments, one or more aspects of visual performance or vision performance may be
   positively affected or improved by providing three or more steps in the central portion of the
   optical zone and three or more steps in the peripheral portion of the optic zone. In some
   embodiments, such lens designs may be useful for correcting refractive error of an eye and/or for

                                                      5
   controlling eye growth. In some embodiments, such lens designs may be useful for correction of
   myopia and for controlling of the progression of myopia. In some embodiments, such lens
   designs may be useful for correction of presbyopia. Presbyopia is the age-related progressive
   loss of the ability of the eye to accommodate thus resulting in blurred vision for near objects. It is
 5 said to be caused at least in part through hardening of the crystalline lens of the eye.
           Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an ophthalmic optical lens for
   correcting a refractive error of an eye and to control eye growth including an optical zone with a
   primary area having an optical power and one or more secondary areas, including at least one
   peripherally of the primary area, having an optical power that is more positive relative to the
10 optical power of the primary area, wherein between the primary area and the one or more
   secondary areas, the optical power progressively transitions between the more negative and more
   positive powers with at least one step, at least two steps, or at least three steps substantially
   between the primary and one or more secondary areas in which the magnitude (i.e. ignoring the
   sign or direction) of the rate of change of the power decreases and then increases by amounts and
15 over a distance sufficient to provide suitable or improved vision performance or visual
   performance in one or more aspects of vision performance or visual performance. Suitable or
   improvement in vision performance or visual performance experienced with the lens may be one
   or more of the following: clarity of vision, degree of doubling, degree of ghosting, distortion,
   contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity, and overall quality of vision. Clarity of vision may,
20 for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating
   scale where 1    =  extremely good clarity and 10    = extremely poor clarity of vision. Degree of
   doubling may, for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10
   numerical rating scale where I = no observable doubling of visual image and 10 = extremely
   pronounced doubling of visual image. Degree of ghosting may, for example, be assessed using a
25 clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating scale where 1        = no observable
   ghosting associated with the visual image and 10 = extremely pronounced ghosting associated
   with the visual image. Distortion may, for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire
   quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating scale where I = no observable distortion of the visual
   image and 10     =  severe distortion of the visual image. Contrast may, for example, be assessed
30 using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical rating scale where I = extremely
   poor contrast in the visual image and 10 = excellent contrast in the visual image. Contrast
   sensitivity may, for example, be measured using a contrast sensitivity test chart such as a letter
   based contrast sensitivity chart (e.g. Pelli-Robson chart) or a since-wave grating based contrast

                                                      6
   sensitivity chart (e.g. Functional Acuity Contrast Test, or FACT, chart). Visual acuity may, for
   example, be measured using a visual acuity test chart such as a Snellen chart or a Bailey-Lovie
   chart, for which the test may be applied under high illumination or low illumination, and/or for
   which the chart may be high contrast, medium contrast, or low contrast. Overall quality of vision
 5 may, for example, be assessed using a clinical questionnaire quantified by a 1 to 10 numerical
   rating scale where 1 = extremely good overall quality of vision and 10 = extremely poor overall
   quality of vision.
            The ophthalmic lens or ophthalmic system may be one or more of the following: a
   contact lens, an intraocular lens which may be an anterior chamber intraocular lens or a posterior
10 chamber intraocular lens, a corneal onlay and a corneal inlay.
            In certain embodiments, the optical power of the primary area is selected for myopia
   correction and has a distance power. In one or more embodiments, the secondary areas are
   arranged and their powers selected with the objective of controlling the progression of myopia.
   Myopia progresses through steady growth of the eye along the optical axis, causing the focal
15 point to be in front of the retina.
            In one or more embodiments, the optical power of the primary area is selected to provide
   distance, intermediate, or near correction for the eye, and the secondary areas have more positive
   powers than the primary area.
            In some embodiments, said progressive transitioning of the optical power is continuous,
20 at least to the extent of not having discontinuities in magnitude, but also to avoid discontinuities
   in the rate of change of power with respect to distance across the lens (i.e. a first derivative). In
   some embodiments, the progressive transitioning of the optical power is continuous or
   substantially continuous. By suitable or improved vision performance or visual performance
   herein is meant one or more of clarity of vision, degree of doubling, degree of ghosting, contrast,
25 contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and overall quality of vision.
            In one or more embodiments, there are one or more secondary areas centrally of the
   optical zone, as well as peripherally. In certain embodiments, the primary area may then be an
   annulus between central and peripheral secondary areas. In these embodiments, there may be at
   least one step as aforedescribed in each of the central and peripheral secondary areas and not
30 including the primary and secondary areas. By locating one or more of the secondary areas
   centrally of the optical zone, for example, a simultaneous correction of different optical defects
   may be reached.

                                                      7
            In some embodiments, there are at least two steps in a secondary area located peripherally
   of the primary area. Where there are two or more steps, the depths and/or the heights of the steps
   may each be equal or unequal. The depth and/or heights of the steps may for example be
   measured as the difference between an envelope of the surface of the lens and an actual surface
 5 of the lens. In other embodiments, where there are two or more steps, the depths and/or the
   heights of the steps may be one of the following: equal, substantially equal and unequal.
            In one or more embodiments, the step may include a point, or a finite portion, in which
   the rate of change of the optical power is zero, i.e. the step is flat. In other embodiments, the rate
   of change may reverse in the step. In one or more embodiments, the step may include a point, or
10 a finite portion, in which the rate of change of the optical power is zero or substantially zero, i.e.
   the step is flat or substantially flat. In other embodiments, the rate of change may reverse in the
   step.
            In some embodiments, the rate of change of the optical power may be similar or the same
   before and after the step. In other embodiments, it may be different before and after the step. In
15 some embodiments, there may be 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5 or 2 to 6 radially spaced
   steps in the power transitions between one or more of the secondary areas and one or more of the
   primary areas. In some embodiments, there may be 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5 or 2 to 6
   radially spaced steps in the power transitions between secondary areas. Radially means in a
   direction towards or away from the centre of the optical axis. Radial distances may sometimes be
20 referred to as half-chord distances. In some embodiments, there may be at least 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6
   radially spaced steps in one or more of the secondary areas or each secondary area. In some
   embodiments, there may be at least 2 or 3 radially spaced steps in the central portion of the
   optical portion and at least 4 or 5 radially spaced steps in the peripheral portion of the optical
   portion. In some embodiments, there may be between 1 to 2 radially spaced steps in the central
25 portion of the optical portion and between 2 to 6 radially spaced steps in the peripheral portion of
   the optical portion. In some embodiments, there may be between 2 to 3 radially spaced steps in
   the central portion of the optical portion and between 2 to 4 radially spaced steps in the
   peripheral portion of the optical portion. In some embodiments, there may be at least 2 or 3
   radially spaced steps per mm of the optical portion of the lens. The use of a plurality of steps has
30 for example an advantage of suitable or improved vision performance or visual performance in
   one or more aspects of vision performance or visual performance. In certain embodiments, the
   first power transition and the second power transition have between I to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2
   to 5 or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps. In certain embodiments, wherein at least one of the first

                                                         8
   power transition and the second power transition have between I to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5
   or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the secondary areas or between each
   secondary area. These steps may also be present in other power transitions. In certain
   embodiments, there is at least 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the
 5 secondary areas or between each secondary area.
            Typically, the lens optics is substantially axially symmetric. In some embodiments, the
   lens optics may be laterally asymmetric and/or rotationally asymmetric. These different
   symmetries have different advantages, for example an asymmetric lens optics may partially
   compensate or correct for certain asymmetric optical defects or aberrations of the eye.
10          The peripheral secondary area may commence at a radius in the range 0.5 to 3 mm, I to
   2 mm, or I to 1.5 mm.
            According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an ophthalmic lens
   comprising:
            an optic zone comprising:
15          at least one central portion having at least a first power profile and at least one peripheral
   portion having at least a second power profile;
            wherein the first power profile of the at least one central portion has at least a first step,
   the first step bounded on either side by a first junction and a second junction, the first power
   profile having a first change in the rate of change of power at the first junction and second
20 change in the rate of change of power at the second junction, and
                     the second power profile of the at least one peripheral portion has at least a second
   step, the second step bounded on either side by a third junction and a fourth junction, the second
   power profile having a third change in the rate of change of power at the third junction and a
   fourth change in the rate of change of power at the fourth junction.
25         According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an ophthalmic
   lens comprising:
            an optical zone comprising:
            at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
            at least two secondary areas comprising:
30                   a first secondary area with a first optical power and a second secondary area with
            a second optical power;

                                                        9
                    wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is
            peripheral of the at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are
            more positive than the at least one primary optical power; and
                    wherein there is a first power transition from the at least one primary optical
 5          power to the first optical power having at least a first step and a second power transition
            from the at least one primary optical power to the second optical power having at least a
            second step, the steps not including the at least one primary area and the first and second
            secondary areas, and wherein for at least one of the first step and at least one of the
            second step, the magnitude of the rate of change of the power transitions decreases at the
10         junction before the step and then increases at the junction after the step.
            It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
            As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and
   variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to
15 exclude further additives, components, integers or steps and should be construed in an inclusive
   sense.
                                       Brief description of the drawings
            The present disclosure will now be further described, by way of example only, with
20 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figures 1 to 4 are half-chord optical power diagrams for respective axially symmetric contact
   lenses constituting respective embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Figure 5 is a half-chord optical power diagram for an example of a conventional contact lens.
   Figure 6 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a power profile of an optic zone for a lens.
25 Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a power profile of an optic zone for a lens.
   Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a power profile of an optic zone for a lens.
   Figure 9 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a power profile of an optic zone for a lens.
   Figure 10 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a power profile of an optic zone for a lens.
   Figure II illustrates the magnitude of the rate of change of a power profile of an optic zone for
30 the exemplary embodiment of Figure 10.
                                             Detailed Description

                                                     10
            The present disclosure is described in further detail with reference to one or more
   embodiments, some examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The
   examples and embodiments are provided by way of explanation and are not to be taken as
   limiting to the scope of the disclosure. Furthermore, features illustrated or described as part of
 5 one embodiment may be used by themselves to provide other embodiments and features
   illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used with one or more other
   embodiments to provide further embodiments. The present disclosure covers these variations and
   embodiments as well as other variations and/or modifications.
            The subject headings used in the detailed description are included for the ease of reference
10 for the reader and should not be used to limit the subject matter found throughout the disclosure or
   the claims. The subject headings should not be used in construing the scope of the claims or the
   claim limitations.
            As used herein, step may be defined as, for example, a region on a lens in which the
   power is monotonically changing over the region, as a location within the region over which the
15 magnitude (i.e. ignoring the sign or direction) of the rate of change of the power over the region
   decreases and then increases. The rate of change of power within the location (i.e. within the
   step) may be zero (i.e. the power is constant along the step) or non-zero (i.e. the power continues
   to change along the step but at a lesser rate of change). A step may alternatively, be defined, for
   example, as a location over a lens in which the absolute value of the first derivative of power
20 with respect to distance across a lens decreases and then increases.
            Figures 1 to 4 are half-chord diagrams depicting the optical power radially of the optical
   zone (radius 4 mm) of contact lenses according to some of the disclosed embodiments. In the
   embodiments of Figures 1 and 2, the primary area 12 of the contact lens is located centrally and
   has a myopia correction power of -3 D, according to the prescription of an individual for whom
25 the contact lens is intended. The primary area thus has a diameter of about 2.1 to 2.2 mm.
            Peripherally of this central area is a secondary area 14 in which the optical power
   transitions to a power more positive than that of the central area resulting in an absolute power of
   -1.5 D for the Figure 1 embodiment, and -0.8 D for the Figure 2 embodiment. The power
   transitions continuously (that is without discontinuities in magnitude or rate of change), with a
30 number of steps in which the magnitude of the rate of change of the power decreases and then
   increases.
            A primary area may have a primary optical power associated, and a secondary area may
   have a secondary optical power associated. A power transition may exist between two adjacent

                                                     11
   areas. For example, the power transition may be between a primary area and a neighbouring
   secondary area. A power transition is a change in optical power that changes from the optical
   power of an area to the optical power of an adjacent area. For example, a power transition
   between a primary area with primary optical power of -3 D and a secondary area with a
 5 secondary optical power of +1 D may change from -3 D near the primary area in a continuous
   manner to +1 D near the secondary area.
            In the Figure 1 embodiment, there are two intermediate steps: the first is quite sharp and
   steep before and after the step, which is itself substantially flat, i.e. no change in power, over a
   width or depth of about 0.6 mm. Thus a sharp change, for example, means that the magnitude of
10 the change in the magnitude of the rate of change in power with respect to distance across the
   lens (expressed in dioptres per millimetre squared or D/mm 2 ) may be 20 D/mm       2 or greater, and
   may be up to 100 D/mm2 . A change in power before and after a step, may also be denoted as the
   absolute value of the derivative of the absolute value of the first derivative of power with respect
   to distance from the optical axis of a lens expressed in dioptres per millimetre squared. A sharp
15 change may also be called a rapid change. The change in power before and after a step may be
   gradual. A gradual change, for example, means that the magnitude of the change in the
   magnitude of the rate of change in power with respect to distance across the lens may be
   10 D/mm 2 or less. The change in power before and after a step may be moderate. A moderate
   change, for example, lies between a gradual change and a sharp or rapid change. A moderate
20 change, for example, means that the magnitude of the change in the magnitude of the rate of
   change in power with respect to distance across the lens may be between 10 D/mm 2 and
   20 D/mm2 .
            In the Figure 1 embodiment, the second step is also flat but over a shorter width or depth
   of about 0.25 mm and is followed by a less rapid increase in optical power to plateau at a radius
25 of about 2.5 mm at the more positive power of -1.5 D.
            In the Figure 2 embodiment, the first step is of less width or depth and the rate of change
   of the power is substantially similar before and after the two steps, and there is a third step at
   1.5 D before the optical power of the secondary area plateaus at -0.3 D at a radius of about
   3.3 mm.
30          The embodiment of Figure 3 differs from those of Figures 1 and 2 in at least two respects.
   Firstly, there is a circular secondary area 14A centrally of the optical zone so that the primary
   area in which the primary optical power is -3 D is reduced to an annulus of about 0.5 mm in
   width, centred at a radius of 1 mm. This centrally located secondary area 14A has one

                                                     12
   intermediate step in the power transition en route from the -3 D primary optical power to a
   central more positive secondary optical power of -2 D. The second difference is that in this case
   the spacings between the steps both in terms of the width or half-chord distance between steps
   and in terms of the difference in optical power between steps in the power transition from the
 5 primary area to the peripheral secondary area 14 are not substantially uniform as it may be in
   other embodiments.
            Figure 4 illustrates an embodiment combining elements             of the profiles of the
   embodiments of Figures 1 and 3. Here, a primary area has a distance power of about -I D, but
   this is a narrow annular region at a radius of about 1.4 mm.
10          Initial tests were carried out with contact lenses according to Figure 4 compared to
   conventional contact lenses of similar distance power in the primary area, but having a smooth,
   continuous, un-stepped monotonic increase to a peripheral power of 0.5 D. The half-chord power
   profile for these reference contact lenses is depicted in Figure 5. The four subjects were selected
   for exhibiting minimal cylindrical correction (i.e. requiring minimal astigmatic correction) - no
15 more than 0.75 DC - and were asked to assess a variety of elements or aspects of vision
   performance or visual performance one to four hours after fitting of the lenses. The subjects
   wore each design bilaterally and these were tested in the same order. Tasks performed by the
   subjects in assessing the lenses were mainly related to indoor office work. Assessment included
   vision specific questions including clarity of vision, degree of ghosting, and overall satisfaction.
20          A power profile of a lens may be based on the design of the lens or may be measured
   from a manufactured lens. For measurement of a manufactured lens, a number of measurement
   systems may be used. Some examples of measurement systems include but are not limited to
   power profiling instruments such as an SHSOphthalmic (Optocraft Gmbh, Germany), a Nimo
   (Lambda-X, Belgium) and a Phase Focus Lens Profiler (Phase Focus Ltd, UK). Suitably
25 configured, these measurement systems may be used to determine the power profile and the
   number of steps that are present in the power profile of a lens.
            Assessment of vision was by a I to 10 numerical rating scale where 1 = extremely
   unclear/blurred and 10 = extremely clear/sharp. In distance vision and near vision, the
   conventional reference lens rated about 6 on average, whereas the exemplary embodiments used
30 rated around 8. In vision overall, it was 5 vs 7.5 respectively. For reporting on the degree of
   ghosting the scale was I = no ghosting and 10 = severe ghosting. The ghosting at distance and
   near in the reference design achieved a rating of about 4.5, whereas the rating for the
   embodiment was 2.5 (i.e. less ghosting).

                                                     13
            In overall satisfaction, the score was 5 vs 7.5 with the higher performance score for the
   illustrated embodiment..
            The lens configuration of Figure 4 resulted in an observable subjective improvement of
   vision performance or visual performance relative to that of Figure 5.
 5          Certain embodiments are directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising: an optical zone
   comprising: at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power; at least one
   secondary areas comprising: at least one first optical power; wherein at least one of the
   secondary area is peripheral of the at least one primary area, and the at least one first optical
   power is more positive than the at least one primary optical power; and wherein there is a first
10 power transition from the at least one primary optical power to the at least one first optical power
   having at least a first step and a second step, the steps not including the at least one primary area
   and the at least one secondary area, and wherein for at least one of the first step and second step,
   the magnitude of the rate of change of the power transitions decreases at the junction before the
   step and then increases at the junction after the step.
15 Example 1
            Figure 6 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the power profile of an optic zone for a
   lens. Power across the optic zone is plotted against the half-chord distance from the centre of the
   optic zone. The example of Figure 6 is directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising:
   an optic zone comprising:
20 a primary area 101 having a primary optical power;
   a central portion 111;
   a first secondary area 102 within the central portion 111 having a first secondary optical power;
   a first power transition area 104 having a first power transition from the primary area 101 to the
   first secondary area 102;
25 a peripheral portion 110;
   a second secondary area 103 within the peripheral portion 110 having a second secondary optical
   power; and
   a second power transition area 105 having a second power transition from the primary area 101
   to the second secondary area 103;
30 wherein the primary optical power is selected according to a prescription for refractive
   correction, the first secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power and
   the second secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power;

                                                     14
   wherein the first power transition comprises: at least a first step 106 in the first power transition
   area 104 in which the rate of change in power, from the first secondary optical power in the first
   secondary area 102 to the primary optical power in the primary area 101, changes rapidly, that
   means for example that the magnitude of the change in the magnitude of the rate of change in
 5 power with respect to distance across the lens may be 20 D/mm 2 or greater, at a first junction 113
   between a first transition region 112 within the first power transition 104 and the first step 106
   followed by a rapid change in the rate of change in power at a second junction 114 between a
   second transition region 115 within the first power transition 104 and the first step 106, and
   at least a second step 107 in the second power transition area 105 in which the rate of change in
10 power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 103 to the primary
   optical power in the primary area 101, changes rapidly at a third junction 118 between a third
   transition region 119 of the second power transition 105 and the second step 107 followed by a
   rapid change in the rate of change in power at a fourth junction 117 between a fourth transition
   region 116 within the second power transition 105 and the second step 107. In certain
15 embodiments, the magnitude of the rate of change in power with respect to distance across the
   lens in a transition region may be at least 0.5 D/mm, 1 D/mm, 2 D/mm, 4 D/mm or 8 D/mm.
            In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the optic zone has a diameter of 8 mm (4 mm
   half-chord). In other embodiments, the optic zone diameter may be at least 3 mm, 5 mm, 6 mm,
   7 mm or 8 mm. In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the primary optical power of the
20 primary area 101 is plano (i.e. 0 D).
            In certain embodiments, the primary optical power may be selected according to the
   prescription for the wearer. In certain embodiments, the primary optical power may comprise a
   spherical power component. A spherical power component may be used for the correction of
   myopia, hyperopia, presbyopia or combinations thereof. Spherical power in the primary area
25 may be selected from the range of -20 D to +30 D, -20 D to +20 D, -15 D to +15 D or -10 D to
   +10 D. In certain embodiments, the primary optical power may further comprise a cylindrical
   power component. A cylindrical power component may be used for the correction of
   astigmatism. In certain embodiments, the cylindrical power in the primary area may be selected
   from the range of -10 D to +10 D or -5 D to +5 D.
30          In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the diameter of the centrally located first
   secondary area is approximately 0.7 mm (i.e. half-chord distance of approximately 0.35) and the
   width (half-chord distance) of the second secondary area is approximately 1.1 mm. In certain

                                                    15
   embodiments, the width of a secondary area may be between 0 mm and 2 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.75
   mm or 0.2 mm and 1.5 mm.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the width (half-chord distance) of the primary
   area 101 is approximately 0.6 mm.
 5         In certain embodiments, the width of a primary area may be between 0.2 mm and 2 mm,
   0.3 mm and 1.75 mm or 0.4 mm and 1.5 mm.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the power of the first secondary area is 1 D
   more positive than the primary optical power and the second secondary optical power is 2.75 D
   greater than the optical power of the primary area.
10         In certain embodiments, the power of a secondary area may be up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D
   more positive than a power of a primary area. In certain embodiments, the power of two or more
   secondary areas may be the same, substantially the same or different.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the width of the first step 106 is approximately
   0.2 mm and the width of the second step 107 is approximately 0.4 mm.
15         In certain embodiments, the width of a step may be between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm
   and 1.25 mm, 0.1 mm and 1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the power of the first step 106 is
   approximately 0.5 D more positive than the optical power of the primary area 101 and the power
   of the second step 107 is approximately 1.75 D greater than the optical power of the primary area
20 101. In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, the power of the first step 106 is approximately
   0.5 D less positive than the optical power of the first secondary area 102 and the power of the
   second step 107 is approximately 1 D less than the optical power of the second secondary area
   103.
           In certain embodiments, the power of a step may be up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive
25 than a power of a primary area. In certain embodiments, the power of a step may be up to 5 D,
   4 D or 3 D less positive or more negative than a power of a secondary area. In certain
   embodiments, the power of two or more steps may be the same, substantially the same or
   different.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6, changes in the rate of change in optical power
30 at junctions 113 and 114 that forms the first step 106 and changes in the rate of change in optical
   power at junctions 117 and 118 that forms the second step 107 are rapid.
           In certain embodiments, a change in the rate of change in optical powers may be
   considered "rapid" when the change in rate of change occurs over a junction width of less than

                                                      16
   0.3 mm, 0.25 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.15 mm. How rapid a change in the rate of change in optical
   power may occur may be constrained by lens manufacturing processes.
   Example 2
            Figure 10 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the power profile of an optic zone for a
 5 lens. Power across the optic zone is plotted against the half-chord distance from the centre of the
   optic zone. The example of Figure 10 is directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising:
   an optic zone comprising:
   a primary area 501 having a primary optical power;
   a central portion 511;
10 a first secondary area 502 within the central portion 511 having a first secondary optical power;
   a first power transition area 504 having a first power transition from the primary area 501 to the
   first secondary area 502;
   a peripheral portion 510;
   a second secondary area 503 within the peripheral portion 510 having a second secondary optical
15 power; and
   a second power transition area 505 having a second power transition from the primary area 501
   to the second secondary area 503;
   wherein the primary optical power is selected according to a prescription for refractive
   correction, the first secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power and
20 the second secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power;
   wherein the first power transition comprises: at least a first step 506 in the first power transition
   area 504 in which the rate of change in power, from the first secondary optical power in the first
   secondary area 502 to the primary optical power in the primary area 501, changes rapidly at a
   first junction 513 between a first transition region 512 within the first power transition 504 and
25 the first step 506 followed by a rapid change in the rate of change in power at a second junction
   514 between a second transition region 515 within the first power transition 504 and the first step
   506, and
   at least a second step 507 in the second power transition area 505 in which the rate of change in
   power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 503 to the primary
30 optical power in the primary area 501, changes rapidly at a third junction 518 between a third
   transition region 519 of the second power transition 505 and the second step 507 followed by a
   rapid change in the rate of change in power at a fourth junction 517 between a fourth transition
   region 516 within the second power transition 505 and the second step 507.

                                                       17
            Figure 11 is a plot of magnitude of the rate of change in power across the optical zone of
   the exemplary embodiment shown in Figure 10. The primary area 501, inner and outer portions
    511 and 510, secondary areas 502 and 503, power transitions 504 and 505 and first and second
    steps 506 and 507 of the exemplary embodiment are also shown in Figure 11. The magnitude of
 5 the rate of change in power is the absolute value of the rate of change in power, i.e. the absolute
   value of the slope of the power along the optic zone. This can be described by equation 1:
                  dP
             R=.. ..................................................................................... (1)
                  dX
    in which
            X is a half-chord distance, and
10          P is the power at half-chord distance X
            R is the magnitude of the rate of change in power P at half-chord distance X
            The unit for magnitude of the rate of change in power is D/mm (dioptres per millimetre).
            The units for the magnitude of the change in the magnitude of the rate of change in power
    (that is, the absolute value of the derivative of R with respect to X) is D/mm2 (dioptres per
15 millimetre squared).
   In Figure 10, the first step 506 has a gradual change in the rate of change in power at the first
   junction 513 between the first transition region 512 and the first step 506 and also a gradual
   change in the rate of change in power at the second junction 514 between the second transition
   region 515 and the first step 506. In Figure 11, magnitude of the rate of change in power
20 approaching the first step 506 from the first secondary area 502 and then departing the first step
   towards the primary area 501 can be seen as a decrease in the magnitude of the rate of change in
   power at the first transition region 512 and first junction 513 followed by an increase in the
   magnitude of the rate of change in power at the second junction 514 and second transition region
    515. In the exemplary embodiment, the change in the magnitude of the rate of change in power
25 at junctions 513 and 514 are gradual and is approximately 7 D/mm 2 for the first junction 513 and
    9 D/mm 2 for the second junction 514.
   In Figure 10, the second step 507 has a rapid change in the magnitude of the rate of change in
   power at the fourth junction 517 between the fourth transition region 516 and the second step
    507 and a more rapid change in the magnitude of the rate of change in power at the third junction
30  518 between the third transition region 519 and the second step 507. In Figure 11, magnitude of
   the rate of change in power approaching the second step 507 from the second secondary area 503
   and then departing the first step towards the primary area 501 can be seen as a decrease in the

                                                    18
   magnitude of the rate of change in power at the third transition region 519 and third junction 518
    followed by an increase in the magnitude of the rate of change in power at the fourth junction
    517 and fourth transition region 516. In the exemplary embodiment, the magnitude of the change
    in the magnitude of the rate of change in power at junctions 517 and 518 are rapid to very rapid
 5 and is approximately 20 D/mm 2 for the fourth junction 517 and 35 D/mm 2 for the third junction
    518.
            In certain embodiments, the change in the magnitude of the rate of change in power at a
   junction may be very rapid and may be up to 100 D/mm2.
            Thus, in the exemplary embodiment, for both first step and second step, the magnitude of
10 the rate of change of power decreases and then increases. That is, there is a point, or a width,
   where there is a local minimum in the magnitude of the rate of change in power. In Figure 11,
   the minimum corresponding to the first step 506 is at the point 606 and the minimum
   corresponding to the second step 507 is along the width 607.
            In certain embodiments, a power transition between a secondary area and a primary area
15 has a step when the magnitude of the rate of change in power along the power transition
   decreases and then increases. In certain embodiments, the decrease followed by increase in the
   magnitude of the rate of change in power along the power transition may occur one or more
   times (i.e. the power transition has one or more steps). In certain embodiments, a minimum in
   the magnitude of the rate of change in power along a power transition is one of a point,
20  substantially a point and a width. In certain embodiments, a minimum in the magnitude of the
   rate of change in power along a power transition has a width of between 0 and 1 mm, 0 and 0.75
   mm or 0 and 0.5 mm.
            In certain embodiments, the magnitude of the rate of change in power at a minimum of
   the magnitude of the rate of change in power of a step may be between 0 D/mm to 0.75 D/mm, 0
25 D/mm to 0.6 D/mm or 0 D/mm to 0.5 D/mm or 0 D/mm to 1 D/mm.
            In certain embodiments, the rate of change of the magnitude of the rate of change in
   power at a junction between a transition region and a step may be between 1 D/mm 2 to 100
   D/mm 2 or 5 D/mm 2 to 50 D/mm 2.
30 Example 3
            Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the power profile of an optic zone for a
    lens. Power across the optic zone is plotted against the half-chord distance from the centre of the
   optic zone. The example of Figure 7 is directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising:

                                                      19
   an optic zone comprising:
   a primary area 201 having a primary optical power;
   a central portion 211;
   a first secondary area 202 within the central portion 211 having a first secondary optical power;
 5 a first power transition area 204 having a first power transition from the primary area 201 to the
   first secondary area 202;
   a peripheral portion 210;
   a second secondary area 203 within the peripheral portion 210 having a second secondary optical
   power; and
10 a second power transition area 205 having a second power transition from the primary area 201
   to the second secondary area 203;
   wherein the primary optical power is selected according to a prescription for refractive
   correction, the first secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power and
   the second secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power;
15 wherein the first power transition comprises: at least a first step 206 in the first power transition
   area 204 in which the rate of change in power, from the first secondary optical power in the first
   secondary area 202 to the primary optical power in the primary area 201, changes rapidly at a
   first junction 213 between a first transition region 212 within the first power transition 204 and
   the first step 206 followed by a rapid change in the rate of change in power at a second junction
20 214 between a second transition region 215 within the first power transition 204 and the first step
   206, and
   at least a second step 207 and a third step 208,
   wherein the second step 207 lies within the second power transition area 205 in which the rate of
   change in power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 203 to
25 the primary optical power in the primary area 201, changes rapidly at a third junction 218
   between a third transition region 219 within the second power transition 205 and the second step
   207 followed by a rapid change in the rate of change in power at a fourth junction 217 between a
   fourth transition region 216 within the second power transition 205 and the second step 207, and
   the third step 208 lies within the second power transition area 205 in which the rate of change in
30 power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 203 to the primary
   optical power in the primary area 201, changes rapidly at a fifth junction 221 between a fifth
   transition region 221 within the second power transition 205 and the third step 208 followed by a

                                                     20
   rapid change in the rate of change in power at a sixth junction 220 between a third transition
   region 219 within the second power transition 205 and the third step 208.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7, the primary optical power of the primary area
   201 is 1.25 D.
 5         In certain embodiments, the primary optical power may be selected according to the
   prescription for the wearer. Such prescription may be provided for the correction of one or more
   of myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and presbyopia.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7, the diameter of the first secondary area is
   approximately 0.7 mm (i.e. half-chord distance of approximately 0.35 mm) and the width (half
10 chord distance) of the second secondary area is approximately 0.8 mm.
           In certain embodiments, the width of a secondary area may be between 0 mmn and 2 mm,
   0.1 mm and 1.75 mm or 0.2 mm and 1.5 mm.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7, the power of the first secondary area 202 is
   1 D more positive than the primary optical power and the second secondary optical power is
15 more than 3.25 D greater than the optical power of the primary area 201. In exemplary
   embodiment of Figure 7, the second secondary area 203 has a progression in optical power
   beginning from approximately 4.25 D then progressively increasing in positive power towards
   the periphery. Such peripheral progressive increase in power may reduce eye growth and/or
   reduce myopia progression.
20         In certain embodiments, the power of a secondary area may be constant, substantially
   constant, progressively increasing, progressively decreasing, modulated (i.e. undulating along its
   power profile), possess an aberration profile (e.g. spherical aberration) or combinations thereof.
           In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7, the inner or central portion 211 has a step 206
   in the first power transition 204 from the first secondary area 202 to the primary area 201 and the
25 outer or peripheral portion 210 has two steps 207 and 208 in the second power transition 205
   from the second secondary area 203 to the primary area 201.
           In certain embodiments, the number of steps within either an inner or central portion or
   an outer or peripheral portion may be equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5. In certain
   embodiments, the number of steps within an inner portion, meaning for example the central
30 portion, may be equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3 or 4. In certain embodiments, the number of steps
   within an outer portion, meaning for example the portion outside the central or inner portion,
   may be equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. In certain embodiments, the number of steps
   within either an inner or central portion or an outer or peripheral portion may be between 1 and

                                                     21
    6, 1 and 5, 2 and 6, 2 and 5 or 2 and 4. In certain embodiments, the number of steps in an inner
   portion may be equal to the number of steps in an outer portion. In certain embodiments, the
   number of steps in an inner portion and the number of steps in an outer portion may be unequal.
             In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7, the first power transition 204 between the first
 5  secondary area 202 and the primary area 201 has a step 206 and the second power transition 205
    from the second secondary area 203 to the primary area 201 has two steps 207 and 208. In
   certain embodiments, the number of steps within a power transition may be equal to or greater
   than 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
             In certain embodiments, the number of steps within a power transition adjacent to or
10 joining a secondary area may be equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6. In certain
   embodiments, the number of steps within a power transition adjacent to or joining a centrally
    located secondary area may be equal to or greater than 1, 2, 3 or 4. In certain embodiments, the
   number of steps in two or more power transitions may be equal. In certain embodiments, the
   number of steps in two or more power transitions may be unequal.
15
   Example 4
             Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the power profile of an optic zone for a
    lens. The example of Figure 8 is directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising:
   an optic zone comprising:
20 a primary area 301 having a primary optical power;
   a central portion 311;
   a first secondary area 302 within the central portion 311 having a first secondary optical power;
   a first power transition area 304 having a first power transition from the primary area 301 to the
    first secondary area 302;
25 a peripheral portion 310;
   a second secondary area 303 within the peripheral portion 310 having a second secondary optical
   power; and
   a second power transition area 305 having a second power transition from the primary area 301
   to the second secondary area 303;
30 wherein the primary optical power is selected according to a prescription for refractive
   correction, the first secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power and
   the second secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power;

                                                      22
   wherein the first power transition comprises: at least a first step 306 in the first power transition
   area 304 in which the rate of change in power, from the first secondary optical power in the first
    secondary area 302 to the primary optical power in the primary area 301, changes at a first
   junction 313 between a first transition region 312 within the first power transition 304 and the
 5  first step 306 followed by a change in the rate of change in power at a second junction 314
   between a second transition region 315 within the first power transition 304 and the first step
    306, and
   at least a second step 307 and a third step 308,
   wherein the second step 307 lies within the second power transition area 305 in which the rate of
10 change in power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 303 to
   the primary optical power in the primary area 301, changes at a third junction 318 between a
   third transition region 319 within the second power transition 305 and the second step 307
    followed by a change in the rate of change in power at a fourth junction 317 between a fourth
   transition region 316 within the second power transition 305 and the second step 307, and the
15 third step 308 lies within the second power transition area 305 in which the rate of change in
   power, from the second secondary optical power in the second secondary area 303 to the primary
   optical power in the primary area 301, changes at a fifth junction 321 between a fifth transition
   region 321 within the second power transition 305 and the third step 308 followed by a change in
   the rate of change in power at a sixth junction 320 between the third transition region 319 within
20 the second power transition 305 and the third step 308.
             In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 8, the power of the primary area 301 is
   approximately -2 D and has a progression in optical power progressively increasing in positive
   power towards the periphery. Such peripheral progressive increase in power may result in
   effective or improved visual performance or vision performance in one or more aspects of visual
25 performance or vision performance. For example, spherical aberration may be included in the
   primary area to correct, reduce or manipulate aberration of the eye and ophthalmic lens
   combined. Such an exemplary inclusion of spherical aberration may improve clarity of vision,
   contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity, and overall quality of vision or combinations thereof.
             In certain embodiments, the power of a primary area may be constant, substantially
30 constant, progressively increasing, progressively decreasing, modulated (i.e. undulating along its
   power profile), possess an aberration profile (e.g. spherical aberration) or combinations thereof.
             In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 8, the powers of the first step 306, second step
    307 and third step 308 are not constant within the steps.

                                                     23
            In certain embodiments, the power profile within a step may be constant, or substantially
   constant, or progressively changing. In certain embodiments in which the power of a step is
   progressively changing, the change in power across the width of the step may be between 0 and
   0.2 D, 0 and 0.15 D or 0 and 0.1 D. In certain embodiments in which two or more steps have
 5 progressively changing power profiles, the rate of change of the power profiles between the two
   or more steps may be equal or unequal.
            In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 8, the power profile along the first power
   transition 304 and the second power transition 305 are monotonic.
            Monotonic means that where a power transition decreases from one area to another area
10 (for example, between a first secondary area and a primary area), the power profile is either
   decreasing or constant or substantially decreasing or substantially constant along the power
   transition including steps within the power transition. Conversely, where a power transition
   increases from one area to another area (for example, from a primary area to a second secondary
   area), monotonic means the power profile is either increasing or constant or substantially
15 increasing or substantially constant along the power transition including steps within the power
   transition. In certain embodiments, a power transition will have a monotonic power profile.
            In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 8, changes in the rate of change in optical power
   at junctions 313 and 314 that forms the first step 306 and changes in the rate of change in optical
   power at junctions 317 and 318 that forms the second step 307 are less rapid and/or more
20 gradual.
            In certain embodiments, a change in the rate of change in optical powers may be
   considered "gradual" when the change in rate of change occurs over a junction width of between
   0.15 and 1 mm, 0.25 and 0.75 mm or 0.3 and 0.5 mm.
25 Example 5
            Figure 9 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the power profile of an optic zone for a
   lens. The example of Figure 9 is directed to an ophthalmic lens comprising:
   an optic zone comprising:
   a primary area 401 having a primary optical power;
30 a central portion 411;
   a first secondary area 402 within the central portion 411 having a first secondary optical power;
   a first power transition area 404 having a first power transition from the primary area 401 to the
   first secondary area 402;

                                                    24
   a peripheral portion 410;
   a second secondary area 403 within the peripheral portion 410 having a second secondary optical
   power; and
   a second power transition area 405 having a second power transition from the primary area 401
 5 to the second secondary area 403;
   wherein the first secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power and the
   second secondary optical power is more positive than the primary optical power;
   wherein the first power transition comprises: at least a first step 406 in the first power transition
   area 404, and
10 at least a second step 407 within the second power transition area 405, and
   the primary area 401 comprises an optical region 409 with a different optical power than the
   primary area.
   In the exemplary embodiment of Figure 9, the power of the primary area 401 is approximately
   2.5 D and has an annular optical region 409 with an optical power of approximately 0.75 D more
15 positive than the primary power. Such an optical region may provide improved near vision for
   the correction of presbyopia and/or the reduction of eye growth and/or reduction in myopia
   progression.
            In certain embodiments, a primary area may have one or more optical regions with
   optical power different or substantially different from the primary area. In certain embodiments,
20 a primary area may have one or more optical regions with optical power more positive or
   substantially more positive than the primary area. In certain embodiments, in which a primary
   area may have two or more optical regions, the optical power of the two or more optical regions
   within the primary area may be equal, substantially equal or different.
            Certain embodiments are direct to the use of a lens with the exception of such uses that
25 comprise or encompass an invasive step representing a substantial physical intervention on the
   body of a human or an animal which requires professional medical expertise to be carried out
   and which entail a substantial health risk even when carried out with the required professional
   care and expertise, for example uses comprising the step of introducing the lens into and/or onto
   a human or animal eye, invasively changing the optical characteristics and/or permanently
30 deforming of a lens comprised by a human or animal eye or exchanging at least a part of a lens
   comprised by a human or animal eye.
            Other Exemplary Non-limiting Embodiments

                                                     25
            Further advantages of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the
   following exemplary embodiments.
   Example Al. An ophthalmic lens comprising: an optical zone with a primary area having an
   optical power and one or more secondary areas;
 5  wherein at least one of the one or more of the secondary areas is located peripheral to the
   primary area;
   wherein the one or more secondary areas has an optical power that is more positive relative to
   the optical power of the primary area;
   wherein between the primary area and at least one or the one or more of the secondary areas, the
10 optical power progressively transitions between the more negative and more positive powers
   with at least one step that does not include the primary and the at least one of the one or more
   secondary areas in which the magnitude of the rate of change of the power decreases and then
   increases.
   Example A2. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
15 an optical zone comprising:
   at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
   a first secondary area with a first optical power; and
   a second secondary area with a second optical power;
   wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is peripheral of the
20 at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are more positive than the at
   least one primary optical power; and
   wherein between adjacent primary area and secondary areas, there is a transition in power from
   the primary optical power to the secondary optical power of the adjacent secondary area with at
   least one step that does not include the primary and secondary powers in the primary and
25 secondary areas in which the magnitude of the rate of change of the transition in power decreases
   and then increases.
   Example A3. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
   an optical zone comprising:
   at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
30 at least two secondary areas comprising: a first secondary area with a first optical power and
   a second secondary area with a second optical power;

                                                     26
   wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is peripheral of the
   at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are more positive than the at
   least one primary optical power;
   wherein there is a transition in power from the at least one primary optical power to at least one
 5 of the first optical power and the second optical power with at least one step that does not
   include the at least one primary optical power and the first and secondary optical in which the
   magnitude of the rate of change of the transition in power decreases rapidly and then increases
   rapidly when the at least one primary area is adjacent to one of the first secondary area and the
   second secondary area.
10 Example A4. An ophthalmic lens for correcting a refractive error of an eye and for controlling
   eye growth, including an optical zone with a primary area having an optical power and one or
   more secondary areas, including at least one peripherally of the primary area, having an optical
   power that is more positive relative to the optical power of the primary area, wherein between
   the primary area and the secondary area(s), the optical power progressively transitions between
15 the more negative and more positive powers with at least one step that does not include the
   primary and secondary area(s) in which the magnitude of the rate of change of the power
   decreases and then increases by amounts and over a distance sufficient to improve vision
   performance or visual performance experienced with the lens.
   A5. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A3, wherein the lens is for correcting
20 refractive error of an eye.
   A6. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A3, wherein the lens is for correcting
   refractive error of an eye and for controlling eye growth.
   A7. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A6, wherein the secondary optical
   power is more positive than the primary optical power by between 0.5D to 3.5D, 0.75D to 2.5D
25 or 1D to 2.5D.
   A8. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to Ax6 wherein the secondary optical
   power is more positive than the primary optical power by at least 0.5D, 0.75D, ID, 2D, 2.5D, 3D
   or 3.5D.
   A9. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A8, wherein the width of the primary
30 area is about 0.2 mm, 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm or 5mm.
   AlO. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A8, wherein the width of the primary
   area is between 0.2 mm to 5 mm, 0.5 to I mm, 0.5 mm to 2 mm, 0.5 mm to 3 mm, I mm to 4
   mm or 2 mm to 4 mm.

                                                      27
   All. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A10, wherein the width of a central
    secondary area is between 0 mm to 3mm, 0.5mm to 3 mm, 1 mm to 2.5 mm or 2 mm to 2.5 mm.
   A12. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to Al1, wherein the width of at least one
   of the steps is approximately 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
 5 A13. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to Al l, wherein the width of at least two
   of the steps is approximately 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A14. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to Al l, wherein the width of at least
   three of the steps is approximately 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A15. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to All, wherein the width of at least
10  four of the steps is approximately 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A16. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A11, wherein the width of at least one
   of the steps is about 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A17. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to Al l, wherein the width of at least two
   of the steps is about 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
15 A18. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to All, wherein the width of at least
   three of the steps is about 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A19. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to All, wherein the width of at least
    four of the steps is about 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.3 mm.
   A20. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A19, wherein the rate of change of the
20 progressive transitions of the optical power of one or more of the steps increases monotonically.
   A21. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A19, wherein the rate of change of the
   progressive transitions of the optical power of one or more of the steps decreases monotonically.
   A22. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A21, wherein the rate of change of the
   at least a portion of the optical power of one or more of the steps is flat or substantially flat.
25 A23. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A2 1, wherein the rate of change of the
   at least a portion of the optical power of one or more of the steps is zero or substantially flat.
   A24. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A23, wherein the rate of change of the
   at least a portion of the optical power of one or more of the steps is rapid and occurs over a junction
   width of less than 0.3 mm, 0.25 mm, 0.2 mm or 0.15 mm.
30 A25. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A23, wherein the rate of change of the
   at least a portion of the optical power of one or more of the steps is gradual and occurs over a
   junction width of between 0.15 and 1 mm, 0.25 and 0.75 mm or 0.3 and 0.5 mm.

                                                      28
   A26. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A25, wherein the lens is for correction
   of myopia and control of the progression of myopia.
   A27. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A25, wherein the lens is for correction
   of one or more of the following refractive errors of an eye: myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and
 5 presbyopia.
   A28. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A27, wherein the lens is a contact lens.
   A29. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A27, wherein the lens is an intraocular
   lenses.
   A30. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A29, wherein the lens is improves
10 vision performance or visual performance.
   A3 1. The ophthalmic lens of one or more of Examples Al to A29, wherein the lens is improves one
   or more of the following: clarity of vision, degree of doubling, degree of ghosting, distortion,
   contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and overall quality of vision.
   A32. A method for correction of myopia and control of the progression of myopia using the lens
15 of one or more of examples Al to A29.
   A33. A method for correction of one or more of the following refractive errors of an eye:
   myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and presbyopia using the lens of one or more of examples Al to
   A34. A method for improving vision performance or visual performance using the lens of one or
   more of examples Al to A29.
20 A35. A method for improving one or more of the following: clarity of vision, degree of doubling,
   degree of ghosting, distortion, contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and overall quality of
   vision using the lens of one or more of examples Al to A29.
   Example B 1. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
           an optic zone comprising:
25         at least one inner portion having at least a first power profile and at least one outer
   portion having at least a second power profile;
   wherein the first power profile of the at least one inner portion has at least a first step, the first
   step bounded on either side by a first junction and a second junction, the first power profile
   having a first change in the rate of change of power at the first junction and second change in the
30 rate of change of power at the second junction, and
                    the second power profile of the at least one outer portion has at least a second
   step, the second step bounded on either side by a third junction and a fourth junction, the second

                                                        29
   power profile having a third change in the rate of change of power at the third junction and a
   fourth change in the rate of change of power at the fourth junction.
   B2. The ophthalmic lens of example B1, wherein the at least one inner portion having at least a
   first step has between one and six, one and five, two and five or two and four steps.
 5 B3. The ophthalmic lens of examples B 1 or B2, wherein the at least one inner portion having at
   least a first step has between one and six, one and five, two and five or two and four steps.
   B4. The ophthalmic lens of examples BI to B2 or B3, wherein the changes in the rate of change
   of power at the junctions is rapid.
   B5. The ophthalmic lens of examples B I to B2 or B3, wherein the changes in the rate of change
10 of power at the junctions is gradual.
   B6. The ophthalmic lens of examples B 1 to B4 or B5, wherein the power within the steps one or
   more of the following: constant, substantially constant, decreasing and increasing.
   B7. The ophthalmic lens of examples B 1 to B5 or B6, wherein the power within the first step and
   the power within the second step is equal, substantially equal or unequal.
15 B8. The ophthalmic lens of examples BI to B6 or B7, wherein the width of the steps is between
   0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm, 0.1 mm and 1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
   B9. A method for correction of myopia and control of the progression of myopia using the lens
   of one or more of examples BI to B8.
   B10. A method for correction of one or more of the following refractive errors of an eye:
20 myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and presbyopia using the lens of one or more of examples BI to
   B8.
   B11. A method for improving vision performance or visual performance using the lens of one or
   more of examples BI to B8.
   B12. A method for improving one or more of the following: clarity of vision, degree of doubling,
25 degree of ghosting, distortion, contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and overall quality of
   vision using the lens of one or more of examples BI to B8.
   Example C1. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
            an optical zone comprising:
            at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
30          at least two secondary areas comprising:
                     a first secondary area with a first optical power and a second secondary area with
            a second optical power;

                                                      30
                   wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is
            peripheral of the at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are
            more positive than the at least one primary optical power; and
                   wherein there is a first power transition from the at least one primary optical
 5          power to the first optical power having at least a first step and a second power transition
            from the at least one primary optical power to the second optical power having at least a
            second step, the steps not including the at least one primary area and the first and second
            secondary areas, and wherein for at least one of the first step and second step, the
            magnitude of the rate of change of the power transitions decreases and then increases.
10 C2. The ophthalmic lens of example C1, wherein the magnitude of the rate of change of the
   power transitions decreases rapidly and then increases rapidly.
   C3. The ophthalmic lens of example C1, wherein the magnitude of the rate of change of the
   power transitions decreases gradually and then increases gradually.
   C4.      The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C2 or C3, wherein the at least one primary area
15 has a width between 0.2 mm and 2 mm, 0.3 mm and 1.75 mm or 0.4 mm and 1.5 mm.
   C5.      The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C3 or C4, wherein the first and second optical
   powers are more positive than the at least one primary optical power by an amount up to 5 D,
   4 D or 3 D.
   C6. The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C4 or C5, wherein at least one of the first secondary
20 area and the second secondary area has a width between 0 mm and 2 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.75 mm
   or 0.2 mm and 1.5 mm.
   C7. The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C5 or C6, wherein at least one of the first power
   transition and the second power transition has between one and six, one and five, two and six,
   two and five or two and four steps.
25 C8. The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C6 or C7, wherein for at least one of the first step
   and the second step, the width is between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm, 0.1 mm and
   1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
   C9. The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C7 or C8, wherein for at least one of the first step
   and the second step, the power may be up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive than the power of the
30 primary area.
   CIO.     The ophthalmic lens of examples C1 to C8 or C9, wherein for at least one of the first step
   and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of at least
   one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area.

                                                      31
   CI1. A method for correction of myopia and control of the progression of myopia using the lens
   of one or more of examples C1 to C10.
   C12. A method for correction of one or more of the following refractive errors of an eye:
   myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism and presbyopia using the lens of one or more of examples C1 to
 5 CIO.
   C13. A method for improving vision performance or visual performance using the lens of one or
   more of examples C1 to C10.
   CI1. A method for improving one or more of the following: clarity of vision, degree of doubling,
   degree of ghosting, distortion, contrast, contrast sensitivity, visual acuity and overall quality of
10 vision using the lens of one or more of examples C1 to C10.
   D1. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
           an optic zone comprising:
           at least one central portion having at least a first power profile and at least one peripheral
   portion having at least a second power profile;
15 wherein the first power profile of the at least one central portion has at least a first step, the first
   step bounded on either side by a first junction and a second junction, the first power profile
   having a first change in the rate of change of power at the first junction and second change in the
   rate of change of power at the second junction, and
                    the second power profile of the at least one peripheral portion has at least a second
20 step, the second step bounded on either side by a third junction and a fourth junction, the second
   power profile having a third change in the rate of change of power at the third junction and a
   fourth change in the rate of change of power at the fourth junction.
   D2. The ophthalmic lens of example D1, wherein the at least one central portion has between
   one to six, one to five, two to five, two to six, two to four steps, three to five steps or three to six
25 steps.
   D3. The ophthalmic lens of examples Dl or D2, wherein the at least one central portion has at
   least two, three, four, five steps.
   D4. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples Dl to D3, wherein the at least
   one peripheral portion has between one to six, one to five, two to five, two to four steps, three to
30 five steps or three to six steps.
   D5. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D4, wherein the at least
   one peripheral portion has at least two, three, four or five steps.

                                                      32
   D6. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to 5, wherein the changes
   in the rate of change of power at one or more of the junctions is rapid.
   D7. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the proceeding examples D1 to D6, wherein the
   changes in the rate of change of power at one or more of the junctions is gradual.
 5 D8. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D7, wherein a power
   within one or more of the steps is one or more of the following: constant, substantially constant,
   decreasing and increasing.
   D9. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D8, wherein the power
   within the first step and the power within the second step is equal, substantially equal or unequal.
10 D10. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D9, wherein one or
   more of the steps have a width that is between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm, 0.1 mm
   and 1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
   D 11. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D10, wherein one or
   more of the steps have a width that is at least 0.1mm, 0.15mm, 0.25mm, 0.5mm, 1mm or
15 1.25mm.
   D12. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D11, wherein the lens
   is for correction of myopia and/or control of the progression of myopia.
   D13. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D12, wherein the lens
   is for correction of presbyopia.
20 D14. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D13, wherein the at
   least one peripheral portion has at least 4 or 5 radially spaced steps and the at least one central
   portion has at least 2 or 3 radially spaced steps.
   D15. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D13, wherein the at
   least one peripheral portion has between 2 to 6 radially spaced steps and the at least one central
25 portion has between 1 to 2 radially spaced steps.
   D16. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples D1 to D13, wherein the at
   least one peripheral portion has between 2 to 4 radially spaced steps and the at least one central
   portion has between 2 to 3 radially spaced steps.
   E17. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
30         an optical zone comprising:
           at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
           at least two secondary areas comprising:

                                                      33
                   a first secondary area with a first optical power and a second secondary area with
            a second optical power;
                   wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is
           peripheral of the at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are
 5          more positive than the at least one primary optical power; and
                   wherein there is a first power transition from the at least one primary optical
           power to the first optical power having at least a first step and a second power transition
            from the at least one primary optical power to the second optical power having at least a
            second step, the steps not including the at least one primary area and the first and second
10          secondary areas, and wherein for at least one of the first step and at least one of the
            second step, the magnitude of the rate of change of the power transitions decreases at the
           junction before the step and then increases at the junction after the step.
   E18. The ophthalmic lens of example E17, wherein for the steps, the magnitude of the rate of
   change of the power transitions at the junction before the step decreases in one or more of the
15 following ways: moderate, rapid and gradual, and then increases at the junction after the step in
   one or more of the following ways: moderate, rapid and gradual.
   E19. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E18, wherein the magnitude of the
   rate of change of the power transitions decreases rapidly at the junction before the step and then
   increases rapidly at the junction after the step.
20 E20. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E18, wherein the magnitude of the
   rate of change of the power transitions decreases gradually at the junction before the step and
   then increases gradually at the junction after the step.
   E2 1. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E18, wherein the magnitude of the
   rate of change of the power transitions decreases moderately at the junction before the step and
25 then increases moderately at the junction after the step.
   E22. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E21, wherein the at least one
   primary area has a width between 0.2 mm and 2 mm, 0.3 mm and 1.75 mm or 0.4 mm and 1.5
   mm.
   E23. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E22, wherein the first and second
30 optical powers are more positive than the at least one primary optical power by an amount up to
   5 D, 4 D or 3 D.

                                                     34
   E24. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E23, wherein at least one of the first
   secondary area and the second secondary area has a width between 0 mm and 2 mm, 0.1 mm and
   1.75 mm or 0.2 mm and 1.5 mm.
   E25. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E24, wherein at least one of the first
 5 power transition and the second power transition has between one and six, one and five, two and
   six, two and five or two and four steps.
   E26. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E25, wherein at least one of the first
   power transition and the second power transition have between I to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5
   or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps.
10 E27. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E26, wherein the first power
   transition and the second power transition have between 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5 or 2 to
   6 radially spaced steps.
   E28. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E27, wherein at least one of the first
   power transition and the second power transition have between 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5
15 or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the secondary areas or between each
   secondary area.
   E29. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E28, wherein there is at least 2, 3, 4,
   5 or 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the secondary areas or between each
   secondary area.
20 E30. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E29, wherein for at least one of the
   first step and the second step, the width is between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm, 0.1
   mm and 1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
   E31. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E30, wherein for at least one of the
   first step and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive than the power of
25 the primary area.
   E32. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E30, wherein for the first step and
   the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive than the power of the primary
   area.
   E33. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E32, wherein for at least one of the
30 first step and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of
   at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area.

                                                     35
   E34. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E32, wherein for the first step and
   the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of at least one of
   the first secondary area and the second secondary area.
   E35. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of examples E17 to E32, wherein for the first step and
 5 the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of the first
   secondary area and the second secondary area.
   E36. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples E17 to E35, wherein the lens
   is for correction of myopia and/or control of the progression of myopia.
   E37. The ophthalmic lens of at least one of the preceding examples E17 to E35, wherein the lens
10 is for correction of presbyopia.
            It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification extends
   to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or evident
   from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various alternative
   aspects of the invention.
15

                                                      36
                                                   CLAIMS
   1. An ophthalmic lens comprising:
           an optic zone comprising:
           at least one central portion having at least a first power profile and at least one peripheral
 5 portion having at least a second power profile;
   wherein the first power profile of the at least one central portion has at least a first step, the first
   step bounded on either side by a first junction and a second junction, the first power profile
   having a first change in the rate of change of power at the first junction and second change in the
   rate of change of power at the second junction, and
10                  the second power profile of the at least one peripheral portion has at least a second
   step, the second step bounded on either side by a third junction and a fourth junction, the second
   power profile having a third change in the rate of change of power at the third junction and a
   fourth change in the rate of change of power at the fourth junction.
15 2. The ophthalmic lens of claim 1, wherein the at least one central portion has between one to
   six, one to five, two to five, two to six, two to four steps, three to five steps or three to six steps.
   3. The ophthalmic lens of claims I or claim 2, wherein the at least one central portion has at least
   two, three, four, five steps.
20
   4. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one peripheral
   portion has between one to six, one to five, two to five, two to four steps, three to five steps or
   three to six steps.
25 5. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one peripheral
   portion has at least two, three, four or five steps.
   6. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the changes in the rate of
   change of power at one or more of the junctions is rapid.
30
   7. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the proceeding claims, wherein the changes in the rate of
   change of power at one or more of the junctions is gradual.

                                                     37
   8. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a power within one or more
   of the steps is one or more of the following: constant, substantially constant, decreasing and
   increasing.
 5 9. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the power within the first
   step and the power within the second step is equal, substantially equal or unequal.
   10. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein one or more of the steps
   have a width that is between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm, 0.1 mm and 1 mm or 0.15
10 mm and 1 mm.
   11. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein one or more of the steps
   have a width that is at least 0.1mm, 0.15mm, 0.25mm, 0.5mm, 1mm or 1.25mm.
15 12. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lens is for correction of
   myopia and/or control of the progression of myopia.
   13. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lens is for correction of
   presbyopia.
20
   14. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one peripheral
   portion has at least 4 or 5 radially spaced steps and the at least one central portion has at least 2
   or 3 radially spaced steps.
25 15. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims I to 13, wherein the at least one
   peripheral portion has between 2 to 6 radially spaced steps and the at least one central portion
   has between 1 to 2 radially spaced steps.
   16. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims I to 13, wherein the at least one
30 peripheral portion has between 2 to 4 radially spaced steps and the at least one central portion
   has between 2 to 3 radially spaced steps.
   17. An ophthalmic lens comprising:

                                                        38
            an optical zone comprising:
            at least one primary area with at least one primary optical power;
            at least two secondary areas comprising:
                     a first secondary area with a first optical power and a second secondary area with
 5          a second optical power;
                     wherein at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area is
            peripheral of the at least one primary area, and the first and second optical powers are
            more positive than the at least one primary optical power; and
                     wherein there is a first power transition from the at least one primary optical
10          power to the first optical power having at least a first step and a second power transition
            from the at least one primary optical power to the second optical power having at least a
            second step, the steps not including the at least one primary area and the first and second
            secondary areas, and wherein for at least one of the first step and at least one of the
            second step, the magnitude of the rate of change of the power transitions decreases at the
15          junction before the step and then increases at the junction after the step.
   18. The ophthalmic lens of claim 17, wherein for the steps, the magnitude of the rate of change
   of the power transitions at the junction before the step decreases in one or more of the following
   ways: moderate, rapid and gradual, and then increases at the junction after the step in one or
20 more of the following ways: moderate, rapid and gradual.
   19. The ophthalmic lens of claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the magnitude of the rate of change of
   the power transitions decreases rapidly at the junction before the step and then increases rapidly
   at the junction after the step.
25
   20. The ophthalmic lens of claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the magnitude of the rate of change of
   the power transitions decreases gradually at the junction before the step and then increases
   gradually at the junction after the step.
30 21. The ophthalmic lens of claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the magnitude of the rate of change of
   the power transitions decreases moderately at the junction before the step and then increases
   moderately at the junction after the step.

                                                   39
   22. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 21, wherein the at least one
   primary area has a width between 0.2 mm and 2 mm, 0.3 mm and 1.75 mm or 0.4 mm and 1.5
   mm.
 5 23. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 22, wherein the first and
   second optical powers are more positive than the at least one primary optical power by an
   amount up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D.
   24. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 23, wherein at least one of the
10 first secondary area and the second secondary area has a width between 0 mm and 2 mm, 0.1
   mm and 1.75 mm or 0.2 mm and 1.5 mm.
   25. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 24, wherein at least one of the
   first power transition and the second power transition has between one and six, one and five, two
15 and six, two and five or two and four steps.
   26. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 25, wherein at least one of the
   first power transition and the second power transition have between 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2
   to 5 or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps.
20
   27. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 26, wherein the first power
   transition and the second power transition have between 1 to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2 to 5 or 2 to
   6 radially spaced steps.
25 28. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 27, wherein at least one of the
   first power transition and the second power transition have between I to 5, 2 to 4, 1 to 3, 2 to 3, 2
   to 5 or 2 to 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the secondary areas or between each
   secondary area.
30 29. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 28, wherein there is at least 2,
   3, 4, 5 or 6 radially spaced steps between one or more of the secondary areas or between each
   secondary area.

                                                     40
   30. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 29, wherein for at least one of
   the first step and the second step, the width is between 0 mm and 1.5 mm, 0.1 mm and 1.25 mm,
   0.1 mm and 1 mm or 0.15 mm and 1 mm.
 5 31. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 30, wherein for at least one of
   the first step and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive than the
   power of the primary area.
   32. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 30, wherein for the first step
10 and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D more positive than the power of the
   primary area.
   33. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 32, wherein for at least one of
   the first step and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power
15 of at least one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area.
   34. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 32, wherein for the first step
   and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of at least
   one of the first secondary area and the second secondary area.
20
   35. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 32, wherein for the first step
   and the second step, the power is up to 5 D, 4 D or 3 D less positive than the power of the first
   secondary area and the second secondary area.
25 36. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 35, wherein the lens is for
   correction of myopia and/or control of the progression of myopia.
   37. The ophthalmic lens of any one of the preceding claims 17 to 35, wherein the lens is for
   correction of presbyopia.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
