                                                         ABSTRACT
            A process to execute a marine survey of a subterranean formation located below a body
of water, the process comprising:
            determining a firing sequence for firing one or more sources in shot intervals of the
marine survey, the firing sequence designed such that energy output from the one or more
sources creates overlapping wavefields reflected from the subterranean formation and recorded
seismic data is separable into separate gathers, each gather associated with firing one of the
sources;
            firing the one or more sources in the shot intervals according to the firing sequence, each
source firing with a randomized firing time relative to firing times of the other sources or relative
to the beginning of a shot interval;
            recording seismic data generated by receivers in one or more data-storage devices, the
seismic data representing the overlapping wavefields emitted from the subterranean formation in
response to the energy output from the one or more sources; and
             separating the recorded seismic data into separate gathers, each gather associated with
firing one of the sources.
H:\der\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\16689691_1.docx - 22/3/18

                       1/15
                        a)
                        E
          El)
co   El -      CO E           D E
   0                     CD
                         0
                          C.)
                  CDC>
              CNN

R-~\d\rwove\NRR  rbDCC\DER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
            SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RANDOMIZING FIRING TIMES OF
                          SIMULTANEOUS SOURCES IN MARINE SURVEYS
                                                     BACKGROUND
[0001]          This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014201584, the
originally filed specification of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0002]          In the past few decades, the petroleum industry has invested heavily in the
development of marine seismic survey techniques that yield knowledge of subterranean
formations beneath a body of water in order to find and extract valuable mineral resources,
such as oil. High-resolution seismic images of a subterranean formation are essential for
quantitative seismic interpretation and reservoir monitoring. For a typical marine seismic
survey, an exploration-seismology vessel tows a seismic source and the same, or another
vessel, tows one or more streamers that form a seismic data acquisition surface below the
surface of the water and over a subterranean formation to be surveyed for mineral deposits.
The vessel contains seismic acquisition equipment, such as navigation control, seismic source
control, seismic receiver control, and recording equipment. The seismic source control causes
the seismic source, which is typically an array of source elements, such as air guns, to produce
acoustic impulses at selected times. The seismic source is often described as being "fired" or
"shot" to produce the acoustic impulse. Each acoustic impulse is a sound wave that travels
down through the water and into the subterranean formation. At each interface between
different types of rock, a portion of the sound wave is transmitted and another portion is
reflected back toward the body of water to propagate toward the surface. The streamers towed
behind the vessel are elongated cable-like structures. Each streamer may include a number of
seismic receivers or multi-component sensors that detect pressure and particle motion
wavefields associated with the sound waves reflected back into the water from the
subterranean formation. With conventional seismic data acquisition, seismic data generated
by the receivers is recorded over a finite period and is considered to emanate from a single
source. In a simultaneous source acquisition, multiple sources are fired within a small time
window called a "shot interval" and the recorded seismic data cannot be considered to
emanate from a single source but from multiple sources recorded with a time overlap.
Processing methods should take these overlapping recordings into account. One way to do so

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPrtb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
                                                               -2
is to actively separate the recorded data over the sources and for all gathers it can be assumed
that acoustic energy emanates from a single source. The petroleum industry seeks systems and
methods that reduce seismic interference in the seismic data generated by the receivers for
simultaneous source acquisition.
                                                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]           According to the present invention there is provided a process to execute a marine
survey of a subterranean formation located below a body of water, the process comprising:
                 determining a firing sequence for firing one or more sources in shot intervals of the
marine survey, the firing sequence designed such that energy output from the one or more
sources creates overlapping wavefields reflected from the subterranean formation and
recorded seismic data is separable into separate gathers, each gather associated with firing one
of the sources;
                 firing the one or more sources in the shot intervals according to the firing sequence,
each source firing with a randomized firing time relative to firing times of the other sources or
relative to the beginning of a shot interval;
                 recording seismic data generated by receivers in one or more data-storage devices, the
seismic data representing the overlapping wavefields emitted from the subterranean formation
in response to the energy output from the one or more sources; and
                  separating the recorded seismic data into separate gathers, each gather associated with
firing one of the sources.
[0004]           The invention also provides a computer system for executing a marine survey of a
subterranean formation located below a body of water, the computer system comprising:
                 one or more processors;
                 one or more data-storage devices; and
                 a routine stored in one or more of the one or more data-storage devices that when
executed by the one or more processors controls the system to carry out:
                            computing a firing sequence for firing one or more sources in shot intervals of
the marine survey, each source to fire with a randomized time delay after a beginning of a shot
interval;

R-~\d\trwove\NRrbDCC\DER\ 668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
                                                       -3
                       firing the one or more sources in the shot intervals according to the firing
sequence to generate overlapping source wavefields;
                       recording seismic data generated by receivers in one or more data-storage
devices, the seismic data representing overlapping wavefields emitted from the subterranean
formation in response to the overlapping source wavefields; and
                       separating the recorded data into separate gathers, each gather associated with
one of the sources.
                                           DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]        Figures 1A-1B show top and side elevation views of an example marine seismic data
acquisition system.
[0006]        Figure 2 shows a ship track and marine-survey-time line for a marine seismic
acquisition system.
[0007]        Figure 3 shows a histogram of an example of random seed time delays for the eight
sources.
[0008]        Figure 4 shows a representing of time delays using time dials.
[0009]        Figure 5A shows a shot interval divided into duration groups.
[0010]        Figure 5B shows an example listing of duration group time intervals.
[0011]        Figure 6 shows a random ordering of duration groups.
[0012]        Figure 7 shows a round-robin schedule of random ordered duration groups shown in
Figure 6.
[0013]        Figure 8 shows a marine-survey-time line with a first shot interval expanded to reveal
a sequence in which sources are fired.
[0014]        Figure 9 shows an example of shifting time delays of sources.
[0015]        Figure 10 shows a marine-survey-time line with first and second shot intervals
expanded to reveal a sequence in which sources are fired.
[0016]        Figure 11 shows an example of shifting time delays of sources.

R-~\d\trwove\NRrbDCC\DER\ 668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
                                                             -4
[0017]        Figure 12 shows a marine-survey-time line with three consecutive shot intervals
expanded to reveal a sequence in which sources are fired.
[0018]        Figure 13 shows a flow-control diagram of a method for randomizing firing times of
a simultaneous source.
[0019]        Figure 14 shows a flow-control diagram of a method for shifting time delays called in
block 1308 of the flow-control diagram of Figure 13.
[0020]        Figure 15 shows one illustrative example of a generalized computer system that
executes a method for randomizing firing times of simultaneous sources.
                                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]        This disclosure presents computational systems and methods for optimizing
randomization of the order in which multiple sources are fired in simultaneous source
acquisition ("SSA"). The multiple sources are fired in shot intervals separated by waiting
periods in which the sources are not fired. The systems and methods described below are
directed to pseudo randomizing the order in which the sources are fired within each shot
interval. The order in which the multiple sources are fired in a shot interval is pseudo
randomized so that receiver data processing methods can optimally separate recorded data
from individual source gathers. In other words, the methods and systems pseudo randomize
the firing times of the multiple sources in the shot intervals such that each source is fired at a
different time and the time difference between firing any two consecutive sources is greater
than a specified parameter.
[0022]        In conventional seismic data acquisition, data generated by the receivers and recorded
over a finite time period is considered to come from a single source. In SSA, the seismic
wavefields generated by multiple sources contribute to the data generated over a finite time
period by the same set of receivers. Alternatively, receiver data can be generated and recorded
continuously, where the recorded energy from different sources interferes with each other.
The aim of SSA is to reduce the time to acquire the seismic data, and/or to increase the
diversity of the data in terms of fold, azimuth, and offsets.

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortbADCC\)ER\668969_
                        I doc--22/03/2018
                                               -5
[0023]    One approach to processing receiver data is to separate the sources, such that single
source data gathers are obtained as if the interference between the sources never existed. This
approach is called "active separation," which benefits from randomly firing multiple sources.
With active separation, one of the multiple sources is selected as a primary source and the
receiver data are aligned with the firing time of the primary source and is sorted in an
appropriate domain, such as common receiver domain or common offset domain. Ideally,
randomized firing times for the multiple sources is manifest so that the energy from the
remaining secondary sources will interfere and appear incoherent, whereas the receiver data
from the primary source will appear as coherent energy. As a result, methods that separate the
sources in time based on coherency filtering can be used. However, strategies for randomizing
time delays for the sources in SSA may lead to secondary source energy that appears coherent
in the seismic data generated by the receivers, which may happen when, within a certain
number of shot intervals, two or more delay times for any of the simultaneous sources are
identical or close to each other. As a result, when coherency-based separation techniques are
used, the coherency filter acting over a certain time-space window is not able to determine that
the energy from the secondary sources is incoherent, leading to suboptimal results.
[0024]    By contrast, computational systems and methods described below use a multiple
source randomization technique where the order or sequence in which the multiple sources are
fired is randomized from shot interval to shot interval in order to avoid coherence in the
energy output from the secondary sources. The randomized firing order for the multiple
sources ensures that within the operator length of the separation technique, the firing time
differences between subsequent traces in the space-time window is large enough for the
secondary source energy to become incoherent.
[0025]    Figures IA-1B show a top view and side-elevation view, respectively, of an example
marine seismic data acquisition system composed of four exploration seismology survey
vessels 101-104. As illustrated, each of the survey vessels tows at least one of eight separate
sources denoted by Si, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6, S7, and S8. The sources S1-S8 are an example of a
"simultaneous source," the operation of which is described in greater detail below.           In
particular, survey vessel 101 tows the source SI, survey vessel 102 tows the sources S2 and
S3, survey vessel 103 tows the sources S4 and S5, and the survey vessel 104 tows the sources
S6, S7, and S8.       Different survey designs may entail various different number and

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I d-o-22/03/2O18
                                                          -6
distributions of sources amongst the survey vessels, which also may vary in number. In
Figure 1A, survey vessel 104 also tows six separate streamers 106-111 located in a body of
water. In this example, each streamer is attached at one end to the survey vessel 104 via a
streamer-data-transmission cable. The streamers 106-111 form a planar horizontal receiver
acquisition surface with respect to the free surface of the body of water. However, in practice,
the receiver acquisition surface can be smoothly varying due to active sea currents and
weather conditions. In other words, although the streamers 106-111 are shown as being
straight, in practice, the towed streamers may undulate as a result of dynamic conditions of the
body of water in which the streamers are submerged. It should be noted that a receiver
acquisition surface is not limited to having a horizontal orientation with respect to the free
surface 112. The streamers may be towed at depths that orient the receiver acquisition surface
at an angle with respect to the free surface 112 or so that one or more of the streamers are
towed at different depths. It should also be noted that a receiver acquisition surface is not
limited to six streamers. In practice, a receiver acquisition surfaces can be composed of as few
as one streamer to as many as 20 or more streamers. Certain embodiments include one or
more streamer towed by one or more of the survey vessels 101-104.
[0026]            Figure IA includes an xy-plane 112 and Figure 1B includes xz-plane 114 of a
Cartesian coordinate system having three orthogonal, spatial coordinate axes labeled x, y and
z. The coordinate system is used to specify orientations and coordinate locations within a
body of water. The x-direction specifies the position of a point in a direction parallel to the
length of the streamers and is referred to as the "in-line" direction. The y-direction specifies
the position of a point in a direction perpendicular to the x-axis and substantially parallel to the
free surface and is referred to as the "cross-line" direction.      The z-direction specifies the
position of a point perpendicular to the xv-plane (i.e., perpendicular to the free surface) with
the positive z-direction pointing downward away from the free surface. Streamer depth below
the free surface can be estimated at various locations along the streamers using depth
measuring devices attached to the streamers. For example, the depth measuring devices can
measure hydrostatic pressure or utilize acoustic distance measurements. The depth measuring
devices can be integrated with depth controllers, such as paravanes or water kites, that control
the depth and position of the streamers as the streamers are towed through a body of water.
The depth measuring devices are typically placed at about 300 meter intervals along each

 ~\dr\lterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                          -7
streamer. Note that in other embodiments buoys attached to the streamers 106-111 can be
used to maintain the orientation and depth of the streamers below the free surface.
[0027]           In Figures IA, shaded rectangles 116 represent receivers or sensors that are spaced
apart along the length of each streamer. The streamers 106-111 are long cables containing
power and data-transmission lines that connect the receivers 116 to seismic acquisition
equipment located on board the survey vessel 104. In one type of exploration seismology,
each receiver is a multi-component sensor including one or more geophones that each detect
displacement within the body of water over time by detecting particle motion, velocities or
accelerations, and a hydrophone that detects variations in water pressure over time. The
streamers 106-111 and the survey vessels 101-104 include sophisticated sensing electronics
and data-processing facilities that allow measurements from each receiver to be correlated
with absolute positions on the free surface and absolute three-dimensional positions with
respect to an arbitrary three-dimensional coordinate system.
[0028]           The sources SI-S8 are each composed of one or more sources elements, such as water
guns, air guns or marine vibrators, suspended from floats below the free surface. The air guns
and water guns can be selected with different chamber volumes and arranged in a particular
manner within the array to generate a resulting acoustic impulse. The marine vibrators may be
used in step function mode to generate a resulting acoustic impulse. In other embodiments,
the sources S1 -S8 can be electromagnetic ("EM") field sources. An EM-field source includes
two source electrodes located at opposite ends of a cable to form an electric bipole
transmission antenna, which is connected to a survey vessel via a source lead-in cable. An
EM-field source electrodes and cable can be horizontally or vertically arranged. Figure lB
shows a side-elevation view of the survey vessels 10 1-104 towing the sources S 1-S8 below a
free surface 118 and above a subterranean formation 120. The streamers 106-111 towed by
survey vessels 102-104 are omitted for convenience. Curve 122 represents a solid surface at
the bottom of a body of water located above the subterranean formation 120.                       The
subterranean formation 120 is composed of a number of subterranean layers of sediment and
rock. Curves 124, 126, and 128 represent interfaces between subterranean layers of different
compositions. A shaded region 130, bounded at the top by a curve 132 and at the bottom by a
curve 134, represents a hydrocarbon-rich subterranean deposit, the depth and positional
coordinates of which may be determined by analysis of seismic data collected during a marine

  ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
survey. As the survey vessels 101-104 move over the subterranean formation 120 the sources
S1-S8 produce short duration pressure waves called acoustic impulses at spatial and temporal
intervals as described in greater detail below.             For the sake of convenience, Figure 1B
illustrates an acoustic impulse expanding outward from the source S I as a pressure wavefield
 136 represented by semicircles of increasing radius centered at the source Si. The wavefronts
are, in effect, shown in vertical plane cross section in Figure lB. The outward and downward
expanding portion of the pressure wavefield 136 is called the "primary wavefield," which
eventually reaches the solid surface 122 of the subterranean formation 120, at which point the
primary wavefield is partially reflected from the solid surface 122 and partially refracted
downward into the solid, subterranean formation 120, becoming elastic waves within the
subterranean formation 120. In other words, in the body of water, the acoustic impulse is
composed of compressional pressure waves, or P-waves, while in the solid subterranean
formation 120, the waves include both P-waves and transverse waves, or S-waves, Within the
subterranean formation 120, at each interface between different types of materials or at
discontinuities in density or in one or more of various other physical characteristics or
parameters, downward propagating waves are partially reflected and partially refracted. As a
result, each point of the surface 122 and each point of the interfaces 124, 126, and 128
becomes a potential secondary point source from which acoustic and elastic wave energy,
respectively, may emanate upward toward the streamers (not shown) towed by the survey
vessel 104 in response to the acoustic impulse generated by the source SI and downward
propagating elastic waves generated from the pressure impulse. As shown in Figure 1B,
secondary waves of significant amplitude are generally emitted from points on or close to the
solid surface 122, such as point 138, and from points on or very close to interfaces in the
subterranean formation 120, such as points 140 and 142. Tertiary waves called "receiver
ghosts" are produced by secondary waves that are reflected from the free surface 118 back
towards the streamers and the subterranean formation 120.
[0029]             The secondary waves are generally emitted at different times within a range of times
following the initial acoustic impulse. A point on the solid surface 120, such as the point 138,
receives a pressure disturbance corresponding to the initial acoustic impulse more quickly than
a point within the subterranean formation 120, such as points 140 and 142. Similarly, a point
on the solid surface 122 directly beneath the source SI receives the acoustic impulse sooner

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
                                                                    -9
than a more distant-lying point on the solid surface 122. Thus, the times at which secondary
and higher-order waves are emitted from various points within the subterranean formation 120
are related to the distance, in three-dimensional space, of the points from the source SI. It
should be noted that acoustic impulses generated by the other sources S2-S8 expand outward
as pressure wavefields that interact with the subterranean formation 120 is the same manner as
the acoustic impulse generated by the source SI described above.
[0030]            Acoustic and elastic waves, however, travel at different velocities within different
materials as well as within the same material under different pressures. Therefore, the travel
times of the primary wavefield and secondary wavefield emitted in response to the primary
wavefield are complex functions of distance from the source 104 as well as the materials and
physical characteristics of the materials through which the primary wave travels. In addition,
the secondary expanding wavefronts may be altered as the wavefronts cross interfaces and as
the velocity of sound varies in the media are traversed by the wave. The superposition of
waves emitted from within the subterranean formation 120 in response to the primary
wavefield is a generally very complicated wavefield that includes information about the
shapes, sizes, and material characteristics of the subterranean formation 120, including
information about the shapes, sizes, and locations of the various reflecting features within the
subterranean formation 120 of interest to exploration seismologists.
[0031]            Subterranean formations located beneath a body of water can also be investigated
using ocean bottom seismic techniques. One example of these techniques is implemented with
ocean bottom cables ("OBCs"). The OBCs are similar to the towed streamer cables described
above in that the OBCs include a number of spaced-apart receivers, such as receivers deployed
approximately every 25 to 50 meters, but the OBCs are laid on or near the water bottom 122.
The OBCs may be electronically connected to an anchored recording vessel that provides
power, instrument command and control, and data telemetry of the sensor data to the recording
equipment on board the vessel.                             Alternatively, ocean bottom seismic techniques can be
implemented with autonomous systems composed of receiver nodes that are deployed and
recovered using remote operated vehicles. The receiver nodes may be placed on or near the
water bottom 122 in a fairly coarse grid, such as approximately 400 meters apart.
Autonomous receiver systems are typically implemented using one of two types of receiver
node systems. A first receiver node system is a cable system in which the receiver nodes are

  ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortbADCC\)ER\668969_
                        I doc--22/03/2O18
                                              - 10
connected by cables to each other and are connected to an anchored recording vessel. The
cabled systems have power supplied to each receiver node along a cable, and seismic data are
returned to the recording vessel along the cable or using radio telemetry. A second receiver
node system uses self-contained receiver nodes that have a limited power supply, but the
receiver nodes typically have to be retrieved in order to download recorded seismic data.
Whether using OBCs or autonomous receiver nodes, source vessels equipped with two or
seismic sources as described above with reference to Figures 1A and 1B can be used to
generate acoustic impulses at spatial and temporal intervals as the source vessels move across
the free surface.
[0032]    Simultaneous sources are not intended to be limited to eight sources S1-S8 towed by
four survey vessels 101-104, as shown in Figures IA and 1B. In practice, the number of
sources comprising a simultaneous source can range from as few as two sources to as many as
 10 or more sources, and the sources can be distributed over any suitable number of survey
vessels. For the sake of convenience and brevity, the example set of eight sources SI-S8 are
used to describe methods and systems for operating a simultaneous source in a pseudo
simultaneous manner to achieve temporal overlap in recording of the wavefields generated by
the sources. In general, the methods described below can be extended to n simultaneous
sources, where n is an integer greater than "1."
[0033]    Figure 2 shows the marine seismic acquisition system shown in Figures lA-1B
traveling a ship track represented by a directional arrow 202. Directional arrow 204 represents
a marine-survey-time line associated with operation of the sources SI-S8 as the seismic
acquisition system travels the ship track 202. Boxes represent shot intervals in which the
sources S1-S8 are fired, and double-headed directional arrows 210 represent waiting periods
between shot intervals. For example, the first three shot intervals 206-208 may have durations
of approximately 1 second and the waiting periods 210 may range from 6-8 seconds. As the
seismic acquisition system travels the ship track 202, the sources S1-S8 are fired in a pseudo
simultaneous manner described below within each shot interval, and the sources S 1-S8 are not
fired during the waiting periods. The pseudo-simultaneous manner described below for firing
the sources SI-S8 results in temporal overlap in recording the wavefields output by the
sources. Pseudo-simultaneous firing of the sources S 1-S8 means that each one of the sources
Sl-S8 is fired with a unique randomized time delay. The randomized firing time delays avoid

  ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                            - 11
constructive interference of the emitted wavefields.                      Methods for generating a random
distribution of the firing time delays for the sources S1-S8 are described below.
[0034]             Figure 3 shows a histogram of an example of random seed time delays for the eight
sources S1-S8. Vertical axis 302 identifies the eight sources SI-S8, and horizontal axis 304
represents an example of a shot interval that ranges from 0 to 1000 milliseconds (i.e., 1
second). All eight of the sources S 1-S8 are fired according to time delays represented by
shaded bars extending from the source axis 302. The random seed time delays are randomly
determined with the constraint that the random seed avoids constructive interference. Note
also that the time delays in the shot intervals are not the same and cannot be closer than a user
specified parameter. The duration of each time delay corresponds to the length of each bar
and is marked along the time axis 304. For example, the source S 1 is assigned a time delay of
 125 ms as represented by the length of bar 306 and the source S5 is assigned a time delay of
726 ms as represented by the length of the bar 308. As a result, the set of time delays shown
in Figure 3 is called the "random seed" and each time delay is called a "random seed time
delay." The random seed is used to determine random time delays for firing the sources SI-S8
in each shot interval.
[0035]             Figure 4 shows an alternative way of representing the random seed time delays with
respect to the shot interval using an inner time dial 402 and an outer time dial 404. The dials
402 and 404 are used below to illustrate the concept of shifting the random seed time delays
and wrapping the shifted time delays that are greater than the duration of the shot interval
described below.                    The inner time dial 402 represents the shot interval and is composed of a
circle with 20 regularly spaced marks separated by 50 ins. The marks are labeled with points
of time separated by 50 ms in the 1000 ms shot interval. The outer time dial 404 is composed
of a circle with 8 markings that represent the random seed time delays initially assigned to the
sources S1-S8. In the description below of pseudo-random ordering of the firing times of the
sources S I -S8 in each shot interval, the outer time dial 404 is rotated with respect to the fixed
position of the inner time dial 402 to illustrate how the time delays change for different shot
intervals.
[0036]             For each shot interval of a marine-survey-time line, the order in which the sources
S1-S8 are fired is pseudo-randomized. The pseudo-randomized order in which the sources Sl-

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 12
S8 are fired in a shot interval is determined by adding a pseudo-randomly selected time shift to
the random seed time delays of the sources SI-S 8. A method for pseudo-randomly selecting
the order in which the sources S1-S8 are fired in a shot interval is now described with
reference to Figures 5-12. The duration of the shot interval is divided by the operator length,
which can be the length of a local data window in which data generated by the receivers is
filtered for coherence. Because seismic data is generated in the form of traces, the operator
length can be defined in terms of the number of traces in a domain. For example, in order to
determine the filter results for a trace x, an example of a local data window is defined from
trace x -- 4 up to trace x + 4. From these 9 traces that lie within the local data window, a filter
result is determined for trace x. Thus, for every trace in a full gather, the filter output is
determined from a coherency filter with an operator length of 9 traces.            In the example
described below, the duration of the shot intervals are 0 - 1000 ms, which is divided by an
operator length of 20 traces. In practice, the operator length can be any desired number of
traces. As a result, the shot interval is divided into 20 sub-time intervals, called "duration
groups," where each duration group has a duration of about 50 ms. Figure 5A shows the shot
interval from 0 - 1000 ms divided into 20 duration groups with each duration group denoted
by gi, where m = 1, 2, 3, ..., 20 is the duration group index. Figure 5B shows a listing of the
20 duration groups and the time intervals associated with each of the 20 duration groups. Note
that for this example, the ratio of the number of duration groups to the number of traces in the
operator length of a data window is one-to-one, which may be appropriate for a source
receiver or common-offset domain.
[0037]           After the duration groups have been formed, the duration groups are placed in
random order using pseudo randomization. Figure 6 shows a random order of the 20 duration
groups shown in Figure 5A in a direction represented by directional arrow 602. For example,
duration group g7 is randomly selected as the first duration group, duration group g12 is
randomly selected as the second duration group and so on with duration group g17 randomly
selected as the last duration group. The duration groups are then arranged in a round-robin
schedule as represented in Figure 7. Figure 7 shows a circle 702 with 20 regularly spaced dots
labeled in a clockwise manner with the randomly sorted duration groups shown in Figure 6.
For example, dots 706-708 are identified by the first three duration groups g7, g12, and g5 in

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 13
the pseudo randomly sorted duration groups displayed in Figure 6, and dot 710 is identified by
the last duration group g17 in the pseudo randomly sorted duration groups in Figure 6.
[0038]            The round-robin schedule of the pseudo randomly sorted duration groups, shown in
Figure 7, and the random seed, shown in Figure 4, are used in combination to determine a
random firing sequence for the sources S1-S8 in each shot interval in a marine-survey-time
line as follows. For the first shot interval in a marine-survey-time line, the shortest time delay
in the random seed is identified and the duration group in which the shortest time delay falls
within is identified. For example, the random seed represented in Figures 3 and 4 reveals that
the source SI is assigned the shortest time delay of 125 ins, which falls within the duration
group g3 as indicated by the list of duration group sub-time intervals shown in Figure 5B. As
a result, firing the sources S1-S8 in the first shot interval begins in the round-robin schedule
shown in Figure 7 with the duration group g3. In Figure 7, the duration groups assigned to the
first three shot intervals are identified by circled numbers 1, 2, and 3 with duration group g3
labeled by circled number I to indicate that duration group g3 contains the source with the
shortest time delay.
[0039]            At the beginning of the first shot interval, the sources S1-S8 are fired according to the
random seed time delays. Figure 8 shows the marine-survey-time line 204 with the first shot
interval 206 expanded to reveal the sequence in which the sources S1-S8 are fired. In this
example, the sources S 1-S8 are fired according to the random seed time delays after the shot
interval 206 begins. For example, source S1 is fired 125 ms after the shot interval begins
followed by firing source S7 212 ms after the beginning of the shot interval, and the sources
S4, S2, S6 S5, and S8 are fired according to the random seed time delays until the source S3 is
fired 920 ms after the beginning of the shot interval. After the sources S1-S8 have been fired,
the sources are reset, and when the shot interval expires at 1000 ins, a waiting period is
allowed to pass before the second shot interval 207 begins.
[0040]            For the second shot interval 207, a time delay is selected for the source with the
shortest random seed time delay from the duration group that is next in the round-robin
schedule shown in Figure 7. For example, source S1 has the shortest random seed time delay
and is assigned a randomly selected time delay, t15, in the duration group g15. In other words,
the source S1 can be assigned any time tis in the time interval 701-750 ms. The time delays

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 14
for the remaining sources S2-S8 are shifted by adding the difference between time delay t 15
and the random seed time delay of 125 ms for the source SI (i.e., ti5        - 125 ms) to each of the
random seed time delays of the remaining sources S2-S8. When a shifted time delay is greater
than the duration of the shot interval, the shifted time delay is adjusted by subtracting the
duration of the shot interval so that the shifted time delay falls within the shot interval.
Suppose the time delay t 15 selected for the source SI in the duration group g15 is 725 ms.
The difference between the selected time delay tis = 725 ms for the source S1 and the
random seed time delay for the source S1 is 600 ms (i.e., 725 - 125 ms). Each of the random
seed time delays of the remaining sources S2-S8 are also shifted by 600 ms. For example, the
shifted time delays for the sources S7 and S4 are 812 ms (i.e., 212 + 600 ms) and 902 ms (302
+ 600 ms), respectively. However, adding 600 ms to the random seed time delays for the
sources S2, S6, S5, S8, and S3 produces shifted time delays that are greater than 1000 ins,
which are outside the duration of the shot interval. The shifted time delays that are greater
than the shot interval are corrected by subtracting the duration of the shot interval, which
places the shifted time delays back into the shot interval with the differences between shot
times maintained. In other words, the shifted time delays that are greater than the duration of
the shot interval are "wrapped" back into the shot interval and are also called "wrap-around
time delays." For example, the source S2 has a random seed time delay of 420 ms which is
shifted to 1020 ms (i.e., 420 + 600 ms). Because the shifted time delay of 1020 ms is greater
than 1000 ms, the shifted time delay is wrapped around back into the shot interval by
subtracting 1000 ms to get a wrap-around time delay of 20 ms.
[0041]            Figure 9 shows an example of shifting the time delays of the sources S1-S8 for the
second shot interval 207 using the time dials 402 and 404 described above with reference to
Figure 4. Assigning shifted time delays to the sources S1-S8 is equivalent to rotating the outer
time dial 404 in a clockwise direction by 600 ms as represented by directional arrow 902. The
locations of the marks associated with each of the sources S1-S8 with respect to the inner dial
402 can be used to assign the shifted time delays for the second shot interval 207. Shifted
time delays that fall within a region of the outer time dial 404 identified by a dashed
directional arrow 904 are also wrap-around time delays. At the beginning of the second shot
interval, the sources S1-S8 are fired according to their assigned shifted time delays.

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 15
[0042]            Figure 10 shows the marine-survey-time line 204 with the first and second shot
intervals 206 and 207 expanded to reveal the time sequence in which the sources S1-S8 are
fired. In the second shot interval 207, the sources S1-S8 are fired according to their assigned
shifted time delays after the shot interval 207 begins as represented on the outer time dial 404
in Figure 9. For example, source S2 is the first source fired at 20 ms after the shot interval
begins followed by firing source S6, which is fired 148 ms after the beginning of the shot
interval, and the sources S5, S8, S3 S1, and S4 are fired according to their associated shifted
time delays represented in Figure 9. After the sources S1-S8 have been fired, the sources are
reset, and when the shot interval expires at 1000 ins, a waiting period is allowed to pass before
the second shot interval 208 begins.
[0043]            For the third shot interval 208, the time delay for the source with the shortest assigned
time delay is chosen from the next duration group in the round-robin schedule shown in Figure
7. As described above with reference to Figure 3, source SI is the source with the shortest
random seed time delay and is assigned a shifted time delay ti in the duration group gI, which
is the time interval 0-50 ins, as shown in Figure 5B. Shifted time delays for the remaining
sources S2-S8 are calculated by first calculating the difference between the time delay t1 and
the random seed time delay of 125 ins for the source SI (i.e., ti - 125 ins) followed by adding
the difference to each of the random seed time delays associated with the remaining sources
S2-S8. For example, suppose the randomly selected time delay ti for the source SI is 25 ins,
which is in the duration group gl. The difference between the selected time delay ti = 25 ins
for the source SI and the random seed time delay for the source SI is -100 ms (i.e., 25 - 125
ins). Shifted time delays for the remaining sources S2-S8 are calculated by adding the
difference -100 ins to each of the random seed time delays for the sources S2-S8 described
above with reference to Figure 3. For example, the shifted time delays for the sources S7 and
S4 are 112 ins (i.e., 212 - 100 ins) and 202 ms (302 - 100 ins), respectively.
[0044]            Figure 11 shows an example of shifting the time delays of the sources 81-S8 for the
third shot interval 208 using the time dials 402 and 404 described above with reference to
Figure 4. Assigning shifted time delays to the sources S1-S8 is equivalent to rotating the outer
time dial 404 in a counterclockwise direction by -100 ins as represented by directional arrow
1102. The locations of the marks associated with each of the sources S1-S8 with respect to the
inner dial 402 can be used to assign shifted time delays to the sources S1-S8 for the third shot

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                                         - 16
interval 208. At the beginning of the third shot interval 208, the sources S1-S8 are fired
according to their assigned shifted time delays represented in Figure 11.
[0045]            Figure 12 shows the marine-survey-time line 204 with the first, second, and third shot
intervals 206-208 expanded to reveal the time sequence in which the sources S1 -S8 are fired
each of the shot intervals. In the third shot interval 208, the sources S1-S8 are fired according
to their assigned shifted time delays after the shot interval 208 begins. The shifted time delays
are represented on the outer time dial 404 in Figure 9. For example, source SI is the first
source fired at 25 ms after the shot interval begins followed by firing the source S7, which is
fired 112 ms after the beginning of the shot interval, and the sources S4, S2, S6, S5, S8, and
S3 are fired according to their associated shifted time delays represented in Figure 11.
[0046]            In general, when a shot interval expires, the sources are reset and a waiting period is
allowed to pass before the next shot interval begins. The method selects the next duration
group gm from the round-robin schedule and the time delays for the next shot interval are
shifted based on the time delay randomly selected for the source with the shortest random seed
time delay as follows. Let D represent the length of a shot interval, t, represents a shifted time
delay from the duration group gin for the source with the shortest random seed time delay, ts
represents the random seed time delay for the source with the shortest random seed time delay,
and ti represents the random seed time delay for the ith simultaneous source. Computation of
the shifted time delays for each source can be executed by the follow pseudo code:
                                           for (i = 1; i         < n; i++) {
                                                           Ti = tj + (tm - t;
                                                           if Ti > D, then
                                                                   Ti = Ti - D; /* wrap-around time delay */
                                                           return Ti;
                                           }
When the shot interval begins, the sources are fired according to the shifted time delays. The
process of selecting a duration group from the round-robin schedule and shifting the random
seed time delays can be repeated until the survey is completed.

  ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                                       - 17
[0047]            Figure 13 shows a flow-control diagram of a method for randomizing firing times of
a simultaneous source. In block 1301, a duration D of shot intervals in a marine-survey-time
line are divided by an operator length selected for a coherency filter, as described above with
reference to Figures 5A-5B. In block 1302, the duration groups are placed in a round-robin
schedule based on random ordering using pseudo randomization, as described above with
reference to Figures 6 and 7. In block 1303, a random seed of firing time delays is generated
for n simultaneous sources as described above with reference to Figure 3. In block 1304, the
source with the shortest random seed time delay is identified and the duration group in the
round-robin schedule in which the shortest random seed time delay falls is identified. In block
 1305, the simultaneous sources are fired according to the time delays. In block 1306, when
the survey is complete, the method stops; otherwise control flows to block 1307 and the
operations in blocks 1307-1309, 1305, and 1306 are executed.                                  In block 1307, the next
duration group in the round-robin schedule is selected. In block 1308, a routine "shift time
delays," described below with reference to Figure 9, is called to shift the time delays of the
sources according to the duration group selected in block 1307. In block 1309, the waiting
period between shot intervals is allowed to elapse as described above with reference to Figure
2.
[0048]            Figure 14 shows a flow-control diagram of a method for shifting time delays called in
block 1308 of the flow-control diagram of Figure 13. In block 1401, a time delay, tm, is
randomly selected time delay from the duration group selected in step 1304 or step 1307 of
Figure 13 for the source with the shortest random seed time delay. In block 1402, the source
index i is initialized to "1."                           In block 1403, when source index i is less than the number of
simultaneous sources n, control flows to block 1404 in which a shifted time delay, Ti, is
calculated; otherwise, a set of shifted time delays {Ti} for the shot interval are returned in
block 1308 of the method described in Figure 13. In block 1405, when the shifted time delay
Ti is greater than the duration of the shot interval D, control flows to block 1406 in which the
duration D is subtracted from the time delay Ti to obtain a wrap-around time delay that is
within the shot interval; otherwise, control flows to block 1407 in which the source index i is
incremented and the operations executed in blocks 1403-1407 are repeated.

 ~\dr\latrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           -  18
[0049]           In the above described example embodiment, the number of duration groups is the
same as the number of traces in the operator length of a data window. As a result, for each
shot interval, a duration group is pseudo randomly selected to determine the randomized time
delays within each shot interval, which is suitable for the source-receiver or common-offset
domain in which the ratio of number of duration groups to the number of traces in the operator
length is one-to-one. However, it should be noted that the separation operator may be applied
to other domains, such as the common-midpoint domain. The spacing of the traces in the
common-midpoint domain is larger than the common-offset domain, which depends on the
ratio between the distance between shots versus the distance between the different traces
within one shot (i.e., often 2 or 4). As a result, the number of traces in the operator length is
not necessarily equal to the number of duration groups used to execute the pseudo
randomization method described above.                        Embodiments include selecting the number of
duration groups based on the operator length in the domain where separation is accomplished.
In other words, in the common-midpoint domain the ratio of the number of duration groups to
the number of traces or the operator length may be two-to-one or four-to-one. For example,
when the operator length in the common-midpoint domain (i.e., number of traces in the
common-midpoint domain) is five with a source/trace spacing ratio of two-to-one, the number
of duration groups in the round robin schedule is 9. In particular, consider nine shots 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of dual sources (flip and flop) in the common-midpoint domain. For a
common-midpoint line belonging to the flip shots 2, 4, 6, and 8, only flop shots 1, 3, 5, 7, and
9 contribute to the operator length of 5 traces.                  A shot 10 would contribute to the flop
common-midpoint line. As a result, only 9 consecutive shots would have to be pseudo
randomized. Note that the ratio returns to 1:1 when the flips and flop shots are treated
separately. Alternatively, when the operator length in the common-midpoint domain is five
with a source/trace spacing ratio of four-to-one, the number of duration groups in the round
robin schedule is 20.
[0050]           Figure 15 shows one illustrative example of a generalized computer system that
executes an efficient method for randomizing firing times of simultaneous sources and
therefore represents a data-processing system. The internal components of many small, mid
sized, and large computer systems as well as specialized processor-based storage systems can
be described with respect to this generalized architecture, although each particular system may

 ~\dr\lterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                          - 19
feature many additional components, subsystems, and similar, parallel systems with
architectures similar to this generalized architecture. The computer system contains one or
multiple central processing units ("CPUs") 1502-1505, one or more electronic memories 1508
interconnected with the CPUs by a CPU/memory-subsystem bus 1510 or multiple busses, a
first bridge 1512 that interconnects the CPU/memory-subsystem bus 1510 with additional
busses 1514 and 1516, or other types of high-speed interconnection media, including multiple,
high-speed serial interconnects. The busses or serial interconnections, in turn, connect the
CPUs and memory with specialized processors, such as a graphics processor 1518, and with
one or more additional bridges 1520, which are interconnected with high-speed serial links or
with multiple controllers 1522-1527, such as controller 1527, that provide access to various
different types of computer-readable media, such as computer-readable medium 1528,
electronic displays, input devices, and other such components, subcomponents, and
computational resources. The electronic displays, including visual display screen, audio
speakers, and other output interfaces, and the input devices, including mice, keyboards, touch
screens, and other such input interfaces, together constitute input and output interfaces that
allow the computer system to interact with human users. Computer-readable medium 1528 is
a data-storage device, including electronic memory, optical or magnetic disk drive, USB drive,
flash memory and other such data-storage device. The computer-readable medium 1528 can
be used to store machine-readable instructions that encode the computational methods
described above and can be used to store encoded data, during store operations, and from
which encoded data can be retrieved, during read operations, by computer systems, data
storage systems, and peripheral devices.
[0051]           After the sources have been fired in a shot interval, each source is aligned with a set
of recorded data. Consider, for example, a simultaneous source with n different sources. A
data set recorded in a shot interval is aligned with a source Sm by shifting the time associated
with the recorded data set by the same time delay assigned to the source Sm in the shot
interval. When sorting to a particular domain, such as the common-receiver domain or
common-midpoint domain, the energy produced by the source Sm is coherent while the energy
produced by the remaining sources is incoherent. The same holds for alignment of the
recorded data with each of the other sources. The recorded data can be aligned with any of the
sources, making that energy coherent and energy from the other sources incoherent.

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                                   - 20
[0052]            Various embodiments described herein are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit
this disclosure to the precise forms described above. For example, any number of different
computational-processing-method implementations that carry out the methods for randomizing
firing times of simultaneous source may be designed and developed using various different
programming languages and computer platforms and by varying different implementation
parameters, including control structures, variables, data structures, modular organization, and
other such parameters.                               The systems and methods for randomizing firing times of
simultaneous source can be executed in near-real time while conducting a marine survey of a
subterranean formation.                             The term "near-real time" refers to a time delay due to data
transmission and data processing that is short enough to allow timely use of the firing time
delays computed during a seismic data acquisition survey. For example, near-real time can
refer to a situation in which generating the time delays and transmitting corresponding firing
signals to the simultaneous source is insignificant. In other embodiments, the time delays for
each shot interval and waiting periods of a seismic data acquisition survey can be calculated in
advance and stored in a computer-readable                               medium.    When the survey begins, the
simultaneous sources can be fired according to the predetermined sequence of time delays and
waiting periods. Embodiments include other randomization implementations provided the
randomized time delays for the secondary sources are within one operator length and cannot
be identical or within a user-specified minimum length of time. The data window may also
have a cross-line component, such as a component that is perpendicular or angular to the in
line direction. As a result, when the data window has in-line and cross-line components, the
data window is not limited to a one-dimensional operator length, but instead has an "operator
area." The methods described above can be used with any kind of marine survey, such as
surveys with straight survey tracks or coil-shooting surveys.
[0053]            It is appreciated that the previous description of the disclosed embodiments is
provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various
modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the
generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from
the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus, the present disclosure is not intended to be limited
to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the
principles and novel features disclosed herein.

E:\dr\ltrwoven\NRPortbf\DCC\)ER\6689691_- Udoc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 21
[0054]            The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0055]            Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

  ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPrtbDCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2018
                                                          - 22
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.             A process to execute a marine survey of a subterranean formation located below a
body of water, the process comprising:
                determining a firing sequence for firing one or more sources in shot intervals of the
marine survey, the firing sequence designed such that energy output from the one or more
sources creates overlapping wavefields reflected from the subterranean formation and
recorded seismic data is separable into separate gathers, each gather associated with firing one
of the sources;
                firing the one or more sources in the shot intervals according to the firing sequence,
each source firing with a randomized firing time relative to firing times of the other sources or
relative to the beginning of a shot interval;
                recording seismic data generated by receivers in one or more data-storage devices, the
seismic data representing the overlapping wavefields emitted from the subterranean formation
in response to the energy output from the one or more sources; and
                separating the recorded seismic data into separate gathers, each gather associated with
firing one of the sources.
2.              The process of claim 1, wherein determining the firing sequence for firing the one or
more sources comprises:
                assigning a seed time delay to each source of the sources, each seed time delay having
a duration that is less than a duration of the shot intervals; and
                for each shot interval, pseudo-randomly shifting each seed time delay to generate a
corresponding shifted time delay having a duration that is less than the duration of the shot
interval, each shifted time delay corresponding to the randomized firing time of the source.
3.              The process of claim 2, wherein assigning the seed time delays comprises randomly
generating the seed time delays with the constraint that no two seed time delays are the same
and a difference between each pair of the seed time delays is greater than a specified
parameter.

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 23
4.             The process of claim 2, wherein pseudo-randomly shifting each seed time delay
comprises:
               selecting a duration group from a set of pseudo-randomly sorted duration groups,
wherein each duration group is a sub-time interval of the duration of the shot intervals;
               randomly selecting a time delay within the duration group;
               assigning the time delay to the source with the shortest seed time delay;
               calculating a difference between the time delay and the shortest seed time delay;
               for each source, adding the difference to the seed time delay assigned to the source to
generate an associated shifted time delay that corresponds to the randomized time delay the
source is fired with after the beginning of the shot interval; and
               when a shifted time delay is greater than the duration of the shot intervals, subtracting
the duration of the shot intervals from the shifted time delay to generate a wrap-around shifted
time delay that is within the duration of the shot intervals.
5.             The process of claim 4, wherein selecting the duration group from the set of pseudo
randomly sorted duration groups comprises:
               dividing the duration of the shot intervals into duration groups;
               pseudo-randomly sorting the duration groups to generate the set of pseudo-randomly
sorted duration groups;
               arranging the pseudo-randomly sorted duration groups into a round-robin schedule;
and
               selecting the duration group from the set of pseudo randomly sorted duration groups in
accordance with the round-robin schedule.
6.             The process of claim 5, wherein dividing the duration of the shot intervals into the
duration groups comprises dividing the duration of the shot intervals by an operator length that
corresponds to a selected number of traces.
7.             The process of claim 1, wherein firing the one or more sources within the shot interval
comprises firing the sources in order from a shortest shifted time delay to a longest shifted
time delay with respect to a beginning of the shot interval.

  ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                            - 24
8.              A computer system for executing a marine survey of a subterranean formation located
below a body of water, the computer system comprising:
                one or more processors;
                one or more data-storage devices; and
                a routine stored in one or more of the one or more data-storage devices that when
executed by the one or more processors controls the system to carry out:
                             computing a firing sequence for firing one or more sources in shot intervals of
the marine survey, each source to fire with a randomized time delay after a beginning of a shot
interval;
                             firing the one or more sources in the shot intervals according to the firing
sequence to generate overlapping source wavefields;
                             recording seismic data generated by receivers in one or more data-storage
devices, the seismic data representing overlapping wavefields emitted from the subterranean
formation in response to the overlapping source wavefields; and
                             separating the recorded data into separate gathers, each gather associated with
one of the sources.
9.              The computer system of claim 8, wherein computing the firing sequence for the one or
more sources comprises:
                assigning a seed time delay to each source of the sources, each seed time delay having
a duration that is less than a duration of the shot intervals; and
                for each shot interval, pseudo-randomly shifting each seed time delay to generate a
corresponding shifted time delay having a duration that is less than the duration of the shot
interval, each shifted time delay corresponding to the randomized time delay a source is fired
with after the beginning of a shot interval.
 10.            The computer system of claim 9, wherein assigning the seed time delays comprises
randomly generating the seed time delays with the constraint that no two seed time delays are
the same and a difference between each pair of the seed time delays is greater than a specified
parameter.

 ~\dr\laterwoven\NRPortb\DCC\)ER\668969_ I doc--22/03/2O18
                                                           - 25
11.            The computer system of claim 9, wherein pseudo-randomly shifting each seed time
delay comprises:
               selecting a duration group from a set of pseudo-randomly sorted duration groups,
wherein each duration group is a sub-time interval of the duration of the shot intervals;
               randomly selecting a time delay within the duration group;
               assigning the time delay to the source with the shortest seed time delay;
               calculating a difference between the time delay and the shortest seed time delay;
               for each source, adding the difference to the seed time delay assigned to the source to
generate an associated shifted time delay that corresponds to the randomized time delay the
source is fired with after the beginning of the shot interval; and
               when a shifted time delay is greater than the duration of the shot intervals, subtracting
the duration of the shot intervals from the shifted time delay to generate a wrap-around shifted
time delay that is within the duration of the shot intervals.
12.            The computer system of claim 11, wherein selecting the duration group from the set of
pseudo-randomly sorted duration groups comprises:
               dividing the duration of the shot intervals into duration groups;
               pseudo-randomly sorting the duration groups to generate the set of pseudo-randomly
sorted duration groups;
               arranging the pseudo-randomly sorted duration groups into a round-robin schedule;
and
               selecting the duration group from the set of pseudo randomly sorted duration groups in
accordance with the round-robin schedule.
13.            The computer system of claim 12, wherein dividing the duration of the shot intervals
into the duration groups comprises dividing the duration of the shot intervals by an operator
length that corresponds to a selected number of traces.
14.            The computer system of claim 8, wherein firing the one or more sources within the
shot interval comprises firing the sources in order from a shortest shifted time delay to a
longest shifted time delay with respect to a beginning of the shot interval.

                                                      <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                                        106
  102           S2
                                                        107
                S3
  survey
                                                        108
  vessel                   S6
                            S7
                                 source
                                           receiver     109        streamer
                                                                              1/15
                     104   S8
103        S4                             116           110
                                                        111
           S5
                                FIG. 1A

                                                      <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                   104                               free surface
                  102                                         118
      S1                S2   S3                  S7
                  S4 S5                  S6 S8
                 136
                                                              water bottom
                                                                                    122   2/15
                       138
124
                                                                     hydrocarbon
                                           140          130            deposit
                                                                    132
126
           142
128                                                                       134
                             FIG. 1B

                                                               <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
amer           survey
   source      vessel
                                                         202
                                                                      Ship track
                          Waiting       Randomized
                                                                                           3/15
            210           periods       shot intervals
                                                                            204
              shot
                        206 shot 207     shot
                                              208
                                                               Survey time line
            interval      interval     interval
               1             2             3
                                       FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                                                                                  4/15
                                                                            Random seed
                                      S8                                                                                      838ms
               Simultaneous sources
                                      S7                       212ms
                                                                                                                      308
                                      S6                                                       548ms
                                      S5                                                                             726ms
<removed-apn>
                                      S4                                 302ms
                                      S3                                                                                                920ms
                                      S2                                           420ms
                                      S1            125ms                                                                                        304
                                           306     S1   S7           S4          S2           S6                 S5          S8      S3
              302                          0     100         200    300      400        500        600         700      800       900     1000
                                                                                 Time (ms)
                                                                                FIG. 3
                                                                                                               404
                                                                S3
                                                               920ms
                                                                                  0
                                                                           950 (1000)          50                  S1
                                                                                                                 125ms
                                                                   900                                   100
                                                S8                                          402
                                               838ms         850                                                150
                                                                                                                                S7
                                                       800                                                            200     212ms
                                                       750                                                             250
                                             S5
                                           726ms
                                                       700                                                            300
                                                                                                                              S4
                                                                                                                             302ms
                                                             650                                                350
                                                                   600                                   400
                                                                          550                 450           S2
                                                                                      500
                                                                                                          420ms
                                                                      S6
                                                                     548ms
                                                                                FIG. 4

                                                                                                 <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                g5         g6         g7         g8         g9     g10   g11   g12   g13   g14   g15   g16   g17   g18    g19   g20
                     250        300        350        400        450   500   550   600   650   700   750   800   850   900   950    1000
                                                                                                                         Time(ms)
0  1000ms
  s over 20 groups
                                                                                                                                           5/15
                                                                       FIG. 5A

<removed-date>
                   6/15
<removed-apn>
              Group durations
              g1=0-50ms
              g2=51-100ms
              g3=101-150ms
              g4=151-200ms
              g5=201-250ms
              g6=251-300ms
              g7=301-350ms
              g8=351-400ms
              g9=401-450ms
              g10=451-500ms
              g11=501-550ms
              g12=551-600ms
              g13=601-650ms
              g14=651-700ms
              g15=701-750ms
              g16=751-800ms
              g17=801-850ms
              g18=851-900ms
              g19=901-950ms
              g20=951-1000ms
               FIG. 5B

                                                                      <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                         Pseudo randomly sorted groups
g3   g15    g1     g10     g13    g2        g18    g20   g6     g14    g11          g9   g16   g19    g4   g17
                                 FIG. 6                               602
                                                  706
                                       g7
                 710       g17                     g12    707
                   g4                                    g5      708
           g19                                                   g8
                                                                            702
     g16                                                              g3 1                                       7/15
     g9                                                                g15      2
     g11                                                              g1
                                                                            3
           g14                                                  g10
                  g6                                     g13
                          g20                      g2
                                    g18
                                 FIG. 7

                                                               <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
          210       Waiting    Randomized
                    periods    shot intervals
       206
           shot       shot       shot     208                           Survey time line
         interval   interval   interval                  204
            1          2          3
                                  207
                    1000ms                                                                 8/15
 S6       S5 S8 S3       6-8s
                        Waiting
                        period
ot
 val
                                                FIG. 8

<removed-date>
                                                       9/15
<removed-apn>
                                         404            S2                           wrap
                                                       20ms                         around
                          S4
                         902ms                    0
                                           950 (1000)         50
                                   900                               100            S6
                                                                                   148ms
                             850     402                                    150
                 S7
               812ms
                       800                                                        200
                       750                                                         250
                S1
              725ms
                       700                                    600ms               300
                                               902                                        S5
                             650                                            350         326ms
                                   600                                400
                                          550                 450
                                                     500
                                                                     S8                         904
                                                 S3                 438ms
                                               520ms
                                                     FIG. 9

                                                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          Waiting    Randomized
                          periods    shot intervals
             shot           shot             208
    206                                                                    204     Survey time line
           interval       interval    207
              1              2
                                     725ms
      1000ms          0                                      1000ms                                   10/15
S5 S8 S3    6-8s S2         S6       S5 S8 S3         S1 S7 S4    6-8s
           Waiting                                               Waiting
           period                 wrap                           period
                                 around
                                            shot
                                          interval
                                              2
                                             FIG. 10

<removed-date>
                                                      11/15
<removed-apn>
                                                              S1
                                                             25ms
                                                      0                       S7
                                               950 (1000)      50           112ms
                                         900                          100
                     S3           850                                       150
                    820ms                                    -100ms
                                                               1102                        S4
                            800                                                   200     202ms
                            750                                                    250
                 S8
                738ms
                            700                                                   300
                                        402                                                S2
                                                                                         320ms
              404                 650                                       350
                              S5         600                          400
                            626ms              550             450
                                                       500
                                                                 S6
                                                                448ms
                                                     FIG. 11

                                                                       <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                        Waiting      Randomized
                        periods      shot intervals
                                   207         208
           shot           shot        shot                                                Survey time line
 206     interval       interval    interval
                                                                             204
            1               2           3
                                    725ms                             25ms
    1000ms          0                                        1000ms    0                                   1000ms
                                                                                                                    12/15
 S8 S3    6-8s S2         S6        S5 S8 S3          S1 S7 S4    6-8s S1 S7 S4 S2   S6         S5 S8 S3
         Waiting                                                 Waiting
         period                 wrap                             period
                               around
                                            shot                                       shot
                                          interval                                   interval
                                              2                                         3
                                         FIG. 12

<removed-date>
                                                 13/15
                  Method for randomizing firing times of
                         simultaneous sources
              Divide duration D of shot intervals into groups         1301
<removed-apn>
                      based on an operator length
              Randomly arrange groups into a round-robin              1302
                             schedule
              Generate a random seed of time delays ti for n          1303
                         simultaneous sources
              Identify group in the round-robin schedule that         1304
                     contains the shortest time delay ts
                                                                      1305
                   Fire sources based on time delays
                                                           1306
                            Survey complete                     yes
                                                                      Stop
                                   ?
                                       no
                                                                      1307
              Select next group in the round robin schedule
                                                                      1308
                             Shift time delays
                                                                             FIG. 13
                                                                      1309
                        Let waiting period elapse

<removed-date>
                               14/15
                              Shift time delays
<removed-apn>
                              Select tm in group
                                                            1401
                                                            1402
                                      i=1
                       no
                                                     1403
              Return                 i       n
               {Ti}                      ?
                                             yes
              1404             Ti = ti + (tm  ts)
                       no
                                                     1405
                                    Ti       D
                                         ?
                       1406                  yes
                                  Ti = Ti - D
                                 Increment i
                       1407
                              FIG. 14

<removed-date>
                                                                15/15
                                                      1502               1503
                                               CPU               CPU
<removed-apn>
                                                                                             MEMORY
                   1510                                                                            1508
                                               CPU               CPU
                           1504
                                                                                      1505
                                                                               1512
              SPECIALIZED
                                                      BRIDGE
              PROCESSOR
                                     1514
                                                                       1516
                                                                          1520
                                                      BRIDGE
              CONTROLLER          CONTROLLER      CONTROLLER      CONTROLLER          CONTROLLER          CONTROLLER
                                                                                                                       1527
                           1522                1523             1524            1525
                                                                                                            MASS
                                                                                  1526                    STORAGE
                                                                                                           DEVICE
                                                                                                           1528
                                                               FIG. 15

