Abstract
A face shield for shielding a user's face and neck from a light or radiation source, the face
shield comprising a base member upon which a person lying in a supine position can place
their head, a shade member arranged for positioning between the light source and the user's
face and at least one elongate substantially upright member extending between the base
member and the shade member.

 A FACE SHIELD
 TECHNICAL FIELD
 100011      The present invention relates to protective devices for bodies and in particular to
shields to protect a person's face and surrounding areas from the sun or other light source.
BACKGROUND ART
[00021       Shields for protecting a person's face from the sun are generally well known and
there are many different types of shields available.
[0003]       The general concept of a compact shade that blocks the face of someone sunbathing
or lying in the sun, while allowing the circulation of air to flow naturally on and around that
persons face and head while laying out tanning the rest of their body is known. The shade
portion of the shield is usually made from protective material to assist with keeping the skin
healthy and protected from the sun's rays and its many harmful effects that occur when the face
is over exposed to the sun.
[00041       The devices are used to protect a sunbather's face from the suns harmful rays,
providing maximum protection for the face from the sun while allowing the rest of the body to
remain exposed. More people are becoming conscious of the damage that the sun can do to one's
face and are taking various precautions to protect themselves from the fatal and/or irreversible
damages such as; premature aging, sun spots, permanent scars from blemishes, skin cancer, heat
stroke, and 2nd degree bums. The general concept allows sunbathers who enjoy lying in the sun,
maximum protection from the sun for their face, while getting the circulation of air about the
face and head that creates comfort while sunbathing.
[00051       The simplest precautions taken by sunbathers protecting their face from the sun
while lying outside include placing a piece of clothing, a hat, cloth or some sort of
fabric/material directly on one's face, which can cause a level of discomfort by not allowing the
natural circulation of air. Therefore, the sunbather becomes hot, uncomfortable and may begin to
sweat. Another common form of protection from the sun is sunscreen. Sunscreens are not 100%
effective and are often heavy and may cause discomfort and/or skin irritations when applied to
the face.
[00061       More advanced shields which allow air to circulate around a user's face were
developed as a substitute. One such shield is a cloth covered framework having three panel

sections hingedly attached to each other. The three panels include a horizontally positioned base
panel on which the head is rested, a vertical header panel which supports a shade panel hingedly
arranged for positioned in parallel alignment with the base panel as a sun shade. There are
pockets on the outer surfaces of the panels and the framework can be folded up into a carrying
package. The shade panel has side flaps for additional shading and as a retainer for the folded
framework. Handles for carrying and fasteners for the side flaps as a retainer are provided.
100071       Another configuration used is provided by a pair of rigid upright support members
and a cross member connected to their upper ends from which a panel of flexible material is
suspended by one edge. When the lower ends of the support members are pushed into the ground
along a line perpendicular to the direction from which the wind blows, the panel is blown by the
wind to a substantially horizontal position to provide a shaded area of a size to protect the face of
a sun bather lying prone on the ground.
[00081       A third type of shade is provided by a face shield formed of a rigid transparent
material, containing pigmenting or surface films to block the transmission of damaging
ultraviolet rays from the sun. In cross-section, this material is formed into an arc. From each end
of the arc, simple support legs are provided such that the face shield will rest on the earth surface
with room for motion of the user's head beneath the shield. Air circulation is enhanced by such
support and by ventilation holes in the face shield near the support legs. The support legs are
foldable toward the concave centre of the face shield, and are useful as carrying handles for the
face shield in an inverted position which can be used as a device to carry items.
[0009]       A further relatively simple apparatus is a foldable face shade for a sunbather
comprising a first U-shaped frame component, a second U-shaped frame component, a hinge
movably connecting the tips of said first U-shaped frame component to the tips of said second U
shaped frame component, whereby said two U-shaped frame components form a frame foldable
in half, and UV deflecting material attached to said frame.
[00101       The most common problem with the devices listed above is that the user does not
have a high comfort level or level of support for their heads when using the shields. Incorrect
support can lead to neck pain when the devices are used for extended periods of time.
(00111       They also tend to leave a person's head on the ground. It is well known that people
who lie on the beach for instance and simply use a towel leaves the user's head on the towel at
ground level and it is very common to get sand on the towel. When a person lies down on the
towel, the sand on the towel is transferred to the person's head.

[0012]        The present invention is directed to providing a shade device that not only protects a
user's face from the sun and any ultraviolet rays while still allowing a user to have air circulate
over their face, but also providing a comfortable head rest keeping a user's head off the ground
and in alignment with the supine body.
[00131        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
100141        The present invention is directed to a face shield, which may at least partially
overcome the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer with a useful or
commercial choice.
[00151        In one form, the invention resides in a face shield for shielding a user's face and neck
from a light or radiation source, the face shield comprising a base member upon which a person
lying in a supine position can place their head, a shade member arranged for positioning between
the light source and the user's face and at least one elongate substantially upright member
extending between the base member and the shade member.
 [00161       The face shield is particularly adapted to block the sun from the face of the user
while sunbathing or lying in the sun, while allowing the circulation of air to flow naturally on
and around that persons face and head and allowing tanning to occur over the rest of their body.
 [00171       The face shield comprises a base member upon which a person may place their head.
 [00181       The base member may preferably be substantially similar to the shade member. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the base member may be inflatable and be disk-shaped or
 substantially circular. In this embodiment, the base member may suitably have a thicker outer
annular portion and a thinner central portion. The thinner central portion may preferably be
 formed from a material which is substantially impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays. It is
particularly preferred that the base member and the shade member are substantially similar as
 this will allow the user to locate their head on either member and still have a shade member
 located above their face. The central portion may preferably be recessed into the base member
 so as to allow a person's head to be comfortably located thereon.

[00191        The base member is preferably attached to the bottom of the upstanding member.
Alternatively the base member may not be attached to the bottom of the outstanding member but
may be attached part of the way down the upstanding member allowing the insertion of the
remainder of the upstanding member into the ground until the base member is located adjacent
the ground. This may prevent the face shield from moving when such is not required.
[00201        The base member is suitably similar in size to the shade member.
[00211        The shade member may preferably be a substantially planar member. As the shade
member may be suitably located at an upper portion of the upstanding member, the shade
member may preferably be quite light in weight. The shade member may suitably comprise one
or more frame members with a material which is at least partially but preferably substantially
impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays attached to or otherwise associated with the one or more
frame members. In a particularly preferred form, there may be a single substantially circular
frame member with the material attached to the frame member in order to provide shade.
 (00221       The shade member is preferably large enough to provide shade to a user's head
 and/or part of their upper torso as well.
 [00231       The shade member may preferably be movable with respect to the upstanding
 member between a first use positioned in which the shade member is configured to provide
 shade to a person's face and a second travel position wherein in the shade member or the face
 shield as a whole is configured to be more compact and therefore easily transportable.
                                                                                         least
  [0024]      In a particularly preferred embodiment, the shade member may be an at
 partially inflatable member. In this embodiment, it is preferred that the shade member is disk
 shaped or substantially circular. The inflatable shade member may suitably have a thicker outer
  annular portion and a thinner central portion. The central portion may be formed from a material
  which is substantially impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays but still allow person to see
  through the portion. This material may preferably be an ultra violet impermeable fabric for
  example. The central portion may preferably be recessed into the shade member so as to allow a
  person's head to be comfortably located thereon when the shade member is used as the base
  member.
  [00251       The upstanding member may preferably be of any shape provided that the member is
  shaped so as not to prevent the airflow about the user's head.
   (00261      The upstanding member may preferably be attached to a peripheral portion of the

shade member. The outstanding member may suitably be pivotably attached to the peripheral
portion of the shade member.
[0027]       The upstanding member may be of any height suitable to allow a user to locate their
head beneath the shade member. Most preferably, the upstanding member may be
approximately between 20 and 50 cm in length.
[00281       The upstanding member may preferably be provided with a pointed or otherwise
shaped lower portion in order to allow the upstanding member to be inserted into the ground.
The lower portion may suitably be a wedge shaped portion.
10029]       The upstanding member may suitably be provided with a flattened or enlarged upper
portion to allow a force to be exerted easily on the upstanding member in order to locate the
upstanding member in the ground. The flattened or enlarged upper portion may be adapted to be
struck with a hammer or pushed by a user's hand, for example.
[00301       The upstanding member may typically be wide enough to offer shade to a user's face
from the sun when the sun is that a small angle of inclination to the horizon. In this situation, the
upstanding member may be positioned between the sun and the user's face.
 [0031]      The upstanding member in the most preferred embodiment may be substantially
vertical, but it should be clear that this is a preferred configuration only. The upstanding
member may not be vertically oriented but instead be diagonal or even helical in nature.
 [00321      In a most preferred aspect, the upstanding member may be inflatable. The
upstanding member may suitably be resilient and may also be deformable. Ideally, the inflatable
upstanding member may be manufactured from a strong but pliable plastic material, capable of
 maintaining its shape when inflated, but malleable when deflated.
 [00331      Each of the members and preferably all of the members comprising the face shield
 may preferably be formed in discrete portions and may be separately inflatable and deflatable.
 Each member may further comprise a valve to inflate or deflate the member. Of course, one
 valve may allow inflation and deflation of the entire face shield simultaneously. Each valve may
 be adapted for use by means to inflate the member such as, a user's mouth or other means for
 example a pump. The valves on each of the members may be of a substantially similar type so
 that more than one means to inflate or deflate the member is not required.
  [00341     The members may be detachably secured to one another in their assembled form.

 The members may be detached from one another in order to facilitate more convenient storage or
transport of the face shield. There may be means for attachment located on each member to
 facilitate attachment to the other members.
 [0035]        The face shield may preferably further comprise a peg member associated with the
face shield base portion adapted to be inserted into the ground to prevent the face shield from
moving or blowing away.
{00361        The upstanding member may be rotatably connected to the base member and/or the
shade member. The rotatable connection provided between any of the members may be adapted
to be releasably secured in a particular position or orientation so as not to move when movement
is not desired. For example, a means for releasably securing the rotatable connection in a
particular position may be a pin member extending through the connection. Preferably the
upstanding member may be rotatable about the horizontal only, in order to allow the user to
maintain the face shield between the face and the sun as the sun moves across the sky during the
day.
[00371        In order to further increase the adaptability of the face shield, the upstanding member
may be provided with rotatable connections to both the base member and the shade member.
The rotatable connections may be capable of rotating the attached members in a 360 degree arc
with respect to the upstanding member.
100381        In a broad form, the invention resides in a face shield for shielding a user's face and
neck from a light or radiation source, the face shield comprising at least one elongate,
substantially upright member, and a shade member arranged for positioning between the light
source and the user's face. Any of the features described herein can be combined in any
combination with any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the
invention.
[00391        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00401        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the

  scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed"Description will
  make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
  [00411      Figure 1 is a perspective view of the face shield according to an aspect of the
  invention shown in use.
  (0042]      Figure 2 is a perspective view of the face shield according to a second aspect of the
 invention in the travel configuration.
 100431       Figure 3 shows the face shield of Figure 2 in the use position.
 [00441      Figure 4 is a perspective view of the face shield according to a third aspect of the
 invention.
 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
 [00451      According to an aspect of the invention, a face shield 10 is provided.
 100461      The face shield 10 shown in Figure 1 is a first particular embodiment of the
invention. The face shield of the first embodiment comprises a base member 11, an upstanding
member 12 and a shade member 13. The face shield 10 is shown with a user 14 in position with
their head placed on the base member 11 and shielded from sun by the shade member 13.
 [00471       Both the base member 11 and the shade member 13 are substantially similar in this
embodiment as the user 14 can then use the face shield in either orientation without sacrificing
protection or comfort. The structure of both the base member 11 and the shade member 13 are
described with reference to the shade member 13.
(00481       The shade member 13 is substantially circular in shape when viewed from above.
The shade member 13 has an enlarged outer annular shaped portion 15 and a thinner central
portion 16. The enlarged outer annular shaped portion 15 is inflatable. The thinner central
portion 16 may be inflatable but need not be. Indeed, in the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the
thinner central portion is shown as an at least partially transparent or see-through section which
is attached to the outer annular shaped portion 15.
[0049]       According to the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the three members, the base
member 11, the upstanding member 12 and the shade member 13 are all attached to each other in
a permanent fashion. While each member may have a separate valve for inflation and deflation
of the member, the embodiment shown in Figure 1 has only one valve 17 located on the

upstanding member 12. This valve is used to inflate or deflate all three members simultaneously.
[00501       The face shield shown in Figure 1 is manufactured from a lightweight, but strong and
pliable material such as plastic.
[00511       According to the second embodiment of the invention shown in Figures 2 and 3, the
face shield 10 has an elongate upstanding member 12 having a sharpened or pointed lower end
18 adapted for insertion into the ground. The upstanding member 12 also has a flattened upper
end 19 adapted for the application of a force thereto, in order to force or drive the lower end 18
of the upstanding member 12 into the ground.
[00521       The shade member as shown in Figures 2 and 3 is shown as a substantially circular
frame member 20 with ultraviolet impermeable fabric 21 associated with the frame member 20.
The shade member is rotatably mounted adjacent the upper end of the upstanding member 12.
The shade member can be moved from the travel position or stored position shown in Figure 2
into the shade position or use position shown in Figure 3. According to this embodiment of the
upstanding member 12 may be manufactured from a lightweight but strong and rigid plastic
material, and the frame member 20 is manufactured from a lightweight but strong and rigid
metal such as wire.
[00531       According to the third embodiment of the invention shown in Figure 4, the base
member 11 and the shade member 13 are again substantially similar. According to this
embodiment, both the base member 11 and the shade member comprise a substantially circular
frame member 20 with ultraviolet impermeable fabric 21 associated with the frame member 20.
The upstanding member in this embodiment comprises a rigid lightweight member 22 extending
diagonally or helically between the base member 11 and the shade member 13 and maintaining
the spacing between them. The lightweight diagonal member 22 also provides additional
support for an upstanding member comprising two substantially vertical frame members 23 with
a portion of ultraviolet impermeable fabric 21 secured to and extending between the frame
members 23.
 [00541      The particular embodiment shown in Figure 4 also comprises a peg member 24
 secured to the frame member 20 of the base member 11 by a length of wire or string 25 or the
like. The peg member 24 is adapted to be inserted into the ground to prevent the face shield 10
 from moving or blowing away when the user leaves it for example, for an activity.

CLAIMS
  1. A face shield for shielding a user's face and neck from a light or radiation source, the face
      shield comprising a base member upon which a person lying in a supine position can place
      their head, a shade member arranged for positioning between the light source and the user's
      face and at least one elongate substantially upright member extending between the base
     member and the shade member,
 2. A face shield as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base member is inflatable.
 3. A face shield as claimed in either one of the preceding claims wherein the base member is
     disk-shaped.
4. The face shield as claimed in either claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the base member has a
     thicker outer annular portion and a thinner central portion.
5. The face shield as claimed in claim 4 wherein the central portion is recessed into the base
     member so as to allow a person's head to be comfortably located thereon.
6. The face shield as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5 wherein the thinner central portion is
     formed from a material which is substantially impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays.
7. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the base member is
     attached to the bottom of the upstanding member.
8.    The face shield as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein the base member is
     substantially similar to the shade member.
9. A face shield as claimed in any one of claims I to 8 wherein the base member is attached
     part of the way down the upstanding member allowing insertion of a lower portion of the
     upstanding member into the ground until the base member is located adjacent the ground.
10. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the shade member
    comprises one or more frame members with a material which is at least partially
    impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays associated with the one or more frame members.
11. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the shade member is
    inflatable.
12. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the shade member is
    disk-shaped.
13. The face shield as claimed in either claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the shade member has a
    thicker outer annular portion and a thinner central portion.
14. The face shield as claimed in claim 13 wherein the central portion is recessed into the shade
    member.
15. The face shield as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the thinner central portion is

    formed from a material which is substantially impermeable to ultraviolet light or rays.
16. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the shade member is
    attached to an end of the upstanding member opposite the base member.
17. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the upstanding member
    is attached to a peripheral portion of the shade member.
18. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the upstanding member
    is provided with a shaped lower portion in order to allow the upstanding member to be
    inserted into the ground.
19. A face shield as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein any one or more of the
    base member, shade member and upstanding member are inflatable and deflatable.
20. The face shield as claimed in claim 19 wherein each member includes a valve to inflate or
    deflate the member.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

