                                 ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to telescopes and in particular to terrestrial
and/or astronomical reflecting telescopes having multiple focal lengths/focal
ratios. The presently disclosed telescopes can be used for more than one
purpose, has more than one focal length and/or focal ratios, reduces the cost
of buying multiple telescopes, and reduces the storage issues.

D    100
                                  104
                                  M02112
           1z::t
  'II
         IOM     -I
                               A'
                       110   A
                     108
                    FIGURE 1

FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to the field of telescopes and in particular to
terrestrial and/or astronomical reflecting telescopes having multiple focal
lengths/focal ratios.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Reflecting telescopes facilitate a way to view and observe distant objects,
both terrestrial and astronomical with greater clarity. The quality of the
image of the object under consideration, being viewed by a particular
"reflecting telescope" largely depends on its design.
More specifically, with reference to the reflecting telescopes, the "focal
ratio" is the key aspect/parameter that determines the light-gathering
power, field of view, and magnification. Different telescopes having
different focal ratios provide certain advantages and certain disadvantages
depending upon distance between the observer and the object being
observed.
The mirror, which can be parabolic or spherical, is the utmost significant
element that determines the light-gathering power, and is also the

focusing element in the reflecting telescope. Typically, the mirror is cut
and/or grinded to a perfect surface camber/curvature. Further, the surface
that is cut and/or grinded is coated with high reflective coating, such as
aluminium coating, which reflects the light incident onto it and is focused
to a focal point due the curvature/camber of the mirror. The curve of the
mirror defines the telescope's focal ratio. The focal ratio, in turn, defines
point of focus, effective light gathering, and magnification.
Further, the curved mirror surface is supported by a firm substrate to
provide the stiffness essential to maintain the accurately cut and finished
curve. Alteration in magnification of the image of the object is achieved by
providing arrangements secluded from the mirror, which include, but are
not limited to, lenses, additional mirrors, eyepieces and the like.
Thus, any reflecting telescope, essentially have a single reflecting element
(the mirror) with a single focal ratio. This means, a particular reflecting
telescope having a particular focal ration will essentially serve the only
purpose for which it is made/manufactured. The same reflecting telescope
cannot be used for some other purpose.
For example, a reflecting telescope having a wide field of view cannot be
used for observing deep sky objects or faint objects, as the mirror
diameter and focal length has to be small to have wide field of view,
                                       2 of 9

whereas for observing deep sky objects or faint objects, a mirror with large
diameter (and hence large light collecting capacity) and long focal length
is required.
From the above, it can be gathered that more than one telescope is
required for different types of object viewing. This in turn means that more
investment and more number of telescopes are required.               Further,
increased number of telescopes also leads to issues relating to storage,
and maintenance.
Hence, there is a need to provide a reflecting telescope that overcomes
the aforementioned drawbacks associated with the conventional reflecting
telescopes.
OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
Some of the objects of the presently disclosed invention, of which at the
minimum one embodiment herein fulfills, are as follows:
An object of the present invention is to remove or reduce one or more
deficiencies encountered in the prior art or to at the minimum deliver a
beneficial substitute;
                                     3 of 9

Another object of the present invention is to provide a reflecting telescope;
Still another object of the present invention is to provide a reflecting
telescope, which has more than one focal ratio; and
Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a reflecting
telescope that can be used for more than one purpose.
Other objects and benefits of the present inventions will be more apparent
from the following description, which is not intended to bind the scope of
the present invention.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to the field of telescopes and in particular to
terrestrial and/or astronomical reflecting telescopes having multiple focal
lengths and/or focal ratios.
More specifically, the present invention relates to a multiple focal length
reflecting telescope comprising a telescope tube assembly having walls
that define an internal cavity and a side cavity; a first mirror, operatively
disposed within the internal cavity, having a reflective surface cut to result
                                    4 of 9

in a first focal length; a second mirror, operatively disposed within the
internal cavity, having a reflective surface cut to result in a second focal
length; wherein the second mirror: is spaced apart from the first mirror by
a predetermined distance; and is displaceable from a first operative
position to a second non-operative position, wherein in second operative
position the second mirror is housed in the side cavity.
In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, the second
mirror is hingeably secured or removably secured to the wall of the
telescope tube assembly.
In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, the focal
length of the first mirror is greater than that of the second mirror.
In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, the second
mirror is displaceable from a first operative position to a second non
operative position, such that the optical path of the first mirror is non
obstructed by the second mirror.
In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, the
reflecting telescope further comprises eye pieces operatively disposed on
the walls of the telescope tube assembly for forming image.
                                       5 of 9

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ACCOMPANYING DRAWING
The present invention will now be described with the help of the
accompanying drawing, in which:
Figure 1 illustrates a schematic cross sectional view of a reflecting
telescope having multiple focal-ratios and/or focal lengths in accordance
with the embodiments of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
In order to overcome at least one drawback encountered with the
conventional telescopes, the inventors of the present invention envisage a
terrestrial and/or astronomical reflecting telescopes having multiple focal
lengths/focal ratios.
More    specifically, the present    invention provides  terrestrial and/or
astronomical reflecting telescopes having multiple focal lengths/focal
ratios, wherein the present invention affords a possibility of using the
same telescope and components without need for having more than one
                                    6 of 9

telescope for different purposes.
 In accordance with the embodiments of the present invention, a multiple
focal length reflecting telescope (100) is provided, the reflecting telescope
comprises a telescope tube assembly (102) having walls (104) that define:
an internal cavity (106a); and a side cavity (106b); a first mirror (108),
operatively disposed within said internal cavity (106a), having a reflective
surface (108a) cut to result in a first focal length; a second mirror (110),
operatively disposed within said internal cavity (106a), having a reflective
surface (110a) cut to result in a second focal length; wherein said second
mirror   (110):  is spaced apart from       said first mirror    (108)   by a
predetermined distance; and is displaceable from a first operative position
to a second non-operative position A, wherein in second non-operative
position A' said second mirror (110) is housed in said side cavity (106b).
 In accordance with the embodiments of the present disclosure, the second
mirror (110) is hingeably secured or removably secured to said wall (104)
of said telescope tube assembly (102). More specifically, the second
mirror (110) is hinged to the wall (104) of the telescope tube assembly
(102) such that the second mirror (110) can be moved from first operative
position A to second non-operative position A', wherein in the second non
operative position A', the second mirror (110) is housed in the side cavity
                                    7 of 9

(106b).
Typically, the side cavity (106b) can be a protrusion configured on the
walls of the telescope tube assembly (102). The protrusion can have any
shape and preferably can have a shape that is complimentary to the
shape of the second mirror (110). The size of the side cavity (106b) or the
protrusion can be somewhat greater than that of the second mirror (110)
so that the second mirror (110) can be safely and securely loaded/stored
in the second non-operative position A' within the side cavity (106b). More
specifically, said second mirror (110) is displaceable from said first
operative position A to said second non-operative position A', such that
the optical path of said first mirror (108) is unobstructed by said second
mirror (110).
 In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the focal
length of said first mirror (108) is greater than that of said second mirror
(110).
 In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the
reflecting telescope further comprises eye pieces (112)           and other
functionally necessary components          (such as   reflecting mirrors M)
operatively disposed on said walls (104) or inside said internal cavity
                                     8 of 9

(106a) of said telescope tube (102) assembly for forming image.
The present invention is described with an embodiment, wherein only two
mirrors are included. Other embodiments with more than two mirrors are
also envisaged within the ambit of the present invention.
ADVANCES AND ECONOMICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PRESENTLY
DISCLOSED INVENTION
The presently disclosed invention, as described herein above, provides
several advances including, but that are not limited to, the realization of a
reflecting telescope which:
    -   can be used for more than one purpose;
    -   has more than one focal length and/or focal ratios;
    -   reduces the cost of buying multiple telescopes; and
    -   reduces the storage issues.
                                    9 of 9

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There are only
     2 pages of
      Claims.

We Claim:
1. A multiple focal length reflecting telescope (100) comprising:
   a telescope tube assembly (102) having walls (104) that define:
       an internal cavity (106a); and
       a side cavity (106b);
   a first mirror (108), operatively disposed within said internal cavity
   (106a), having a reflective surface (108a) cut to result in a first focal
   length;
   a second mirror (110), operatively disposed within said internal cavity
   (106a), having a reflective surface (11 0a) cut to result in a second focal
   length;
   wherein said second mirror (110):
       is spaced apart from said first mirror (108) by a predetermined
       distance; and
       is displaceable from a first operative position to a second non
       operative position A, wherein in second non-operative position A'
       said second mirror (110) is housed in said side cavity (106b).
2. The telescope as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second mirror (110)
   is hingeably secured or removably secured to said wall (104) of said
   telescope tube assembly (102).

3. The telescope as claimed in claim 1, wherein the focal length of said first
   mirror (108) is greater than that of said second mirror (110).
4. The telescope as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second mirror (110)
   is displaceable from said first operative position A to said second non
   operative position A', such that the optical path of said first mirror (108)
   is unobstructed by said second mirror (110).
5. The telescope as claimed in claim 1 further comprises eye pieces (112)
   operatively disposed on said walls (104) of said telescope tube (102)
   assembly for forming image.

<removed-date>
              Editorial Note
                <removed-apn>
                 There is only 1
<removed-apn>
                    page of
                   Drawings.

<removed-date>
              100
<removed-apn>
                                                        104
                           M
                    102                                     112
                    106a                                      106b
                                                 <U+2701>
                                      110a
                                110          A
                                                     108a
                                108
                               FIGURE 1

