                                         ABSTRACT
A computer-implemented method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based
on a user profile for said user, said method comprising: (i) accessing, from said user profile,
target value data representing a target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a
predetermined future timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said
portfolio; (ii) generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of
said assets; (iii) accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including data
representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said strategies and -data
representing rules for generating a value of said portfolio based on one or more of said
parameters, said user preference data from said user profile including data representing a range
of user defined values associated with each of said parameters; (iv) generating, based on said
configuration data and said user preference data, recommended values for each of said
parameters for increasing said projected value to minimise a difference between said projected
value and said target value; and (v) generating a user display interface for displaying one or
more of said recommended values to said user.
ME 127685555_1 (W2003x)

                                                             3/16
                                                                                                226
                                       -                                                       270
                           Access Clent Investment Risk Profle
                  272                                                              - -         -..
                                        Growth ProW'$.                      Use 1 Year performance
                  274
                                          danced Profile?         e    '    Use 3 Year performance
                                        NO
                  276
                                          M     oeate     >                 Use 5 Year performance
280
                      Use Member AvailableData (MAD) performance
282
                               Access Fund Fees (ifavailable )
2 8 ,......
                       -1     Access Adviser Fee (iavalulabe)
286
         Calculate return using years to retirement. selected performance and fees
                                              End
                                                          Figure 3

                             INVESTMENT MONITORING SYSTEM
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The field relates to a system and method of optimising a value of a user's investment
   portfolio based on a user profile for that user. The invention is particularly useful in
   relation to optimising the value of a superannuation investment portfolio, and it will
 5 therefore be convenient to describe the invention in that environment. However, it should
   be understood that the invention is intended for broader application and use.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   A financial investment refers to an arrangement where an investor (e.g. an entity or person)
   provides a sum of money to an investment vehicle with the expectation of receiving a
10 profit or gain after a certain period of time. For example, the profit or gain from an
   investment may include an increase in the value of an asset over an investment period.
   However, investments are often associated with an element of risk representing the
   potential for an investment to produce an undesirable result for the investor, such as
   resulting in loss (e.g. a decrease in monetary value invested in an asset) or liability to the
15  investor,   Assessing such risk is difficult as it may involve considering a variety of
   objective factors, many of which may not be generally relevant to all types of financial
    transactions.   Further, such assessment of risk may also depend on subjective factors,
    which will differ between investors as each may have different investment objectives
    and/or different perceptions or sensitivities to risk
20  An investment portfolio is the term commonly used to describe the collection or pool of
    financial investments held by an investor, In order to mitigate the risks and uncertainty
    associated with investing, an investment portfolio may comprise a diversity of financial
    investments. This is particularly true of investment portfolios that are structured to provide
    an investor with income upon retirement.          Such investment portfolios will commonly
25  comprise combinations of different risk-reward financial investments, ranging from "low
    risk, low yield" to "high risk, high yield", or different types of income streams.
    In many developed countries, governments have instituted compulsory schemes which
    require individuals to contribute regular investments, in order to provide themselves with
    an income upon retirement.        One such country is Australia, which implemented the
30  'Superannuation Guarantee' system in 1992. This system includes a compulsory element
    whereby employers are required by law to pay an additional amount, based on a proportion

                                                   2
   (currently 9%) of an employee's salary, into an approved superannuation fund.                 In
   addition, the system also allows employees to make voluntary contributions to the
   superannuation fund. The accrued investment, made up of compulsory and voluntary
   superannuation contributions, can then be accessed by the employee upon reaching a
 5 certain age, which is prescribed in the relevant legislation.
   While such compulsory investment schemes force employees to invest for their retirement,
   it is left up to the individual to calculate whether their superannuation investment will be
   sufficient to support their financial needs in their retirement. Even if an individual has
   some concept of the superannuation investment they will likely require to meet their
10 financial needs at retirement, it is often difficult to calculate the contributions that will be
   required in order to realise that investment target.
   It is therefore desired to address one or more of the above problems, or to at least provide a
   useful alternative to existing investment monitoring systems.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15 According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
   implemented method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
   profile for said user, said method comprising:
   (i)       accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value of
             said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
20           portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
   (ii)      generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
             valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of return
             for each of said assets;
   (iii)     accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
25           predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including
             data representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said
             strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of said portfolio based
             on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
             including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
30           said parameters;

                                                   3
   (iv)     generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
            and
 5 (v)      generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said recommended
            values to said user.
   According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided _a computer
   implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
   profile for said user, said system comprising:
10 (i)      means for accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target
            value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
   (ii)     means for generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe
            based on valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate
15          of return for each of said assets;
   (Iii)    means for accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including
            data representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said
            strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of said portfolio based
20          on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
            including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
            said parameters;
   (iv)     means for generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference
            data, recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
25          value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
            and
   (v)      means for generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said
            recommended values to said user.
   According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
30  implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
   profile for said user, said system comprising one or more computers including:

                                                  4
   at least one processor;
   an interface between said processor and a data network;
   a database for containing information relating to said user profile and said user's
   investment portfolio; and
 5 at least one storage medium operatively coupled to said processor, said storage medium
   containing program instructions for execution by said processor, said program instructions
   causing said processor to execute the steps of:
   (i)      accessing, from said user profile stored in said database, target value data
            representing a target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined
10          future timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said
            portfolio;
   (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within' said timeframe based on
            valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of return
            for each of said assets;
15 (iii)    accessing from said database, configuration data and user preference data for a
            plurality of predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration
            data including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
            each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of said
            portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from
20          said user profile including data representing a range of user defined values
            associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)    generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
25           and
    (v)      generating a user display interface for displaying, via said data network, one or
             more of said recommended values to said user.
    According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a tangible
    computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon for
30  performing a method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
    profile for said user, said method comprising:

                                                     5
   (i)      accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value of
            said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
   (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
 5          valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of return
            for each of said assets;
   (iii)    accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including
            data representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said
10          strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of said portfolio based
            on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
            including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
            said parameters;
    (iv)    generating, based on. said configuration data and said user preference data,
Is          recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
            and
    (v)     generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said recommended
            values to said user.
20  According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
    implemented method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
    profile for said user, said method comprising:
    (i)     accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value of
             said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
25           portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on risk
             profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including performance data
             representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)    accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
30           predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including
             data representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said

                                                  6
           strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for said portfolio based
           on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
           including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
           said parameters;
 5 (iv)    generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
           recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
           value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
           and
   (v)     generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said recommended
10         values to said user.
   According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a coniputer
   implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
   profile for said user, said system comprising:
   (i)      means for accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target
15          value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
   (ii)     means for generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe
            based on risk profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including
            performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
20 (iii)    means for access configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data including
            data representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said
            strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for said portfolio based
            on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
25          including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
            said parameters;
    (iv)    means for generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference
            data, recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
30          and

                                                     7
   (v)      means for generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said
            recommended values to said user.
   According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
   implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
 5 profile for said user, said system comprising one or more computers including:
   at least one processor,
   an interface between said processor and a data network;
   a. database for containing information relating to said user profile and said user's
   investment portfolio; and
10 at least one storage medium operatively coupled to said processor, said storage medium
   containing program instructions for execution by said processor, said program instructions
   causing said processor to execute the steps of:
   (i)      accessing, from said user profile stored in said database, target value data
            representing a target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined
15          future timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said
            portfolio;
   (ii)      generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on risk
             profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including performance data
             representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
20  (iii)    accessing from said database, configuration data and user preference data for a
             plurality of predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration
             data including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
             each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for said
             portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from
25           said user profile including data representing a range of user defined values
             associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)     generating, based on said configuration data and said usei preference data,
             recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
             value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
30           and

                                                     8
    (v)      generating a user display interface for displaying, via said data network, one or
             more of said recommended values to said user.
    According to a still further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a tangible
    computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon for
 5  performing a method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user
    profile for said user, said method comprising:
    (i)      accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value of
             said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
             portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
10  (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on risk
             profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including performance data
             representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)    access configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of predetermined
             investment optiniisation strategies, said configuration data including data
15           representing one or more variable parameters associated with each of said
             strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for said portfolio based
             on one or more of said parameters, said user preference data from said user profile
             including data representing a range of user defined values associated with each of
             said parameters;
20   (iv)    generating based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
             recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
             value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target value;
             and
     (v)     generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said recommended
25           values to said user.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     Representative embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference
     to the accompanying drawings. These embodiments are given by way of illustration only
     and other embodiments of the invention are possible. Consequently, the particularity of
 30  the accompanying drawings is not to be understood as superseding the generality of the
     preceding description. In the drawings:

                                                 9
   Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of a system of optimising a value of a user's
   investment portfolio in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2 is a flow chart illustrating a preferred method of optinising a value of a user's
   investment portfolio in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
 5 Figure 3 is a flow chart illustrating the calculation of a projected value of an investment
   portfolio in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 4 is a flowchart illustrating a user notification monitoring process used in a
   preferred form of the method of the present invention;
   Figure 5 to 16. are examples of graphical user interfaces generated and used in a preferred
10 form of the method of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF REPRESENTATIVE EMBODIMENTS
   Representative embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference
   to the accompanying drawings.         The invention is particularly useful in relation to
   optimising the value of a superannuation investment portfolio, and it will therefore be
15 convenient to describe the invention in that environment:           However, it should be
   understood that the invention is intended for broader application and use.
   A superannuation investment portfolio commonly includes a collection or pool of financial
   investments held by an investor.        In many instances, an investor's superannuation
   investment portfolio is managed by a registered superannuation fund that, at least partly,
20 controls the way in which an investor's funds are invested.
   Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary system 100 in which preferred embodiments of the
   invention may be implemented. The system includes a server 102 and at least one user
   terminal 104, both of which are connected to a network 106, which may be, for example,
   the Internet. Also connected to the network 106 are a plurality of user terminals and/or
25 servers, e.g. 108, 110.
   It will be appreciated that Figure 1 depicts the system 100 schematically only, and is not
    intended to limit the technology employed in the servers, user terminals and/or
   communication links. The user terminals in particular may be wired or wireless devices,
    and their connections to the network may utilize various technologies and bandwidths. For
30  example, applicable user terminals include (without limitation): PC's with wired (e.g.
    LAN, cable, ADSL ,dial-up) or wireless (e.g. WLAN, cellular) connections; and wireless

                                                    10
    portable/handheld devices such as PDA's or mobile/cellular telephones. These devices
    also include input means, such as a mouse and keyboard, stylus or other pointing device or
    system, to enable the users to make selections and input data. The protocols and interfaces
    between the user -terminals and the servers may also vary according to available
 5  technologies, and include (again without limitation): wired TCP/IP (Internet) protocols;
    GPRS, WAP and/or 3G protocols (for handheld/cellular devices); Short Message Service
    (SMS) messaging for digital mobile/cellular devices; and/or proprietary communications
    protocols.
    The server 102 includes at least one processor 112 as well as a database 114, which would
10  typically be stored on a secondary storage device of the server 102, such as one or more
    hard disk drives. Server 102 further includes at least one storage medium 116, typically
    being a suitable type of memory, such as random access memory, for containing program
     instructions and transient data related to the operation of the valuation system as well as
     other necessary functions of the server 102. In particular, memory 116 contains a body of
15   program instructions 118 implementing the method and system in accordance with
     preferred embodiments of the invention. The body of program instructions 118 includes
     instructions for optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio based on a user profile
     for said user, the operation of which will be described hereafter.
     It should be appreciated that the hardware used to implement the method of the invention
20   may be conventional in nature or specifically designed for the purpose. The hardware
      structure shown in Figure 1 is merely one possible embodiment and any other suitable
      structure may be utilised.
      Figure 2 is a flowchart 200 which illustrates a preferred method of optimising a value of a
      user's investment portfolio based on a user profile for that- user, in accordance with the
25    present invention. In accordance with this general method, a preliminary step 210 includes
      obtaining information from a user in order to complete a user profile. A user's profile data
      may include:
      *        personal data representing personal details of the user. These details may include
               user authentication details (e.g. a unique user identifier and password), details
 30            contact address, billing address, contact number, gender, income bracket, contact
               details of the user's financial adviser/planner, a consent authorisation allowing the
               system 100 to generate alert messages to the user's financial adviser/planner;

                                                   II
            portfolio data representing the details of one or more investment products that
            make up the user's investment portfolio.        These details may include a unique
            product identifier or product name (e.g. the APIR code of the superannuation fund),
            and any other user-specific parameters associated with the investment portfolio;
 5  *       target value data representing a target value of the user's superannuation
            investment portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframne;     and
    e        risk profile data representing the user's sensitivity to investment risk (e.g. based
            on data representing a total score value, risk category and/or risk allocation as
             described below).
10  The collection of such information from the user, and subsequent presentation of
    information to the user, is preferably facilitated through a website. The step 212 of
    collecting the user's personal data involves presenting the user with a webpage, one
    example of which is illustrated in Figure 6. On this webpage the user will typically enter
    their personal data, such as their name, date of birth, contact information, and the name and
15  contact details of their financial adviser (if available). On a further webpage, an example
    of which is illustrated in Figure 7, the user will be required to enter details relating to their
    current superannuation investment portfolio, including the name of their superannuation
    fund and preferably the corresponding APIR code. A large proportion of this information
    may already be stored in the database 114 if the user has an existing account with the
20  monitoring service operating the webpage, in which case a number of these fields would be
    pre-populated by the system 100.
     On a series of further webpages, examples of which are illustrated in Figures 8 and 9, the
     user will be required to enter their income details. Such information may include a
     description of the income source (e.g. the user's occupation), an indication of whether this
25   income source is derived from the user's primary occupation, annual gross income or
     annual net income, the desired monitoring frequency, the compulsory superannuation rate
     (e.g. Superannuation Guarantee Levy), details of their superannuation fund (including the
     APIR code), and . Additionally, the user may also provide details of their non-compulsory
     superannuation investment contributions as either a fixed amount or a percentage of their
 30  gross or net income.
      A further step 214 of collecting a user's personal data involves presenting the user with a
      webpage, one example of which is illustrated in Figure 10, in order to obtain information

                                                   12
   related to their expenses. This information may include the type of expense (e.g. home
   expenditure, living expenditure, transportation expenditure etc.), and the desired
   monitoring frequency (e.g. fortnightly, monthly, quarterly, annually).       In a particularly
   preferred embodiment of the present invention, this expense information may be presented
 5 to the user in a graphical form, an example of which is shown in Figure 11
   An optional step 216 involves obtaining information from the user in relation to their
   superannuation insurance details. This information may -include the amount of cover
   secured by the insurance policy, the rate amount required to be payed on the policy, and
   the desired monitoring frequency (e.g. fortnightly, monthly, quarterly, annually).
10 In addition to the personal data, the user is also required to enter target value data
   representing a target value of the user's superannuation investment portfolio to be achieved
   within a predetermined future timeframe. In this step 218, the user is required to provide
   details of their retirement goal (i.e. the amount of superannuation investment they hope to
   have accrued by the time of retirement), the planned date of their retirement (i.e. their
15 desired retirement age), the desired monitoring frequency (e.g. fortnightly, monthly,
   quarterly,- annually), and their date of birth (if not already provided). An example of a
    webpage used to collect such information is illustrated in Figure 12.
    The risk profile data, which is optionally provided by the user, may represent the user's
    sensitivity to risk in different ways. In one representative embodiment, the risk profile data
20  represents a number (e.g. a total score value) generated, by the system 100 based on the
    user's selected response to one or more questions (or activities or challenges) for assessing
    the user's likely investment period, investment objectives, expected outcome from
    investments, and likely sensitivity or aversion to investment risk (e.g. the risk of a loss in
    the value of an investment). The number represented by the risk profile data can be used to
25  generate respective upper bound and lower bound values for each attribute of the product
    defined in the configuration data of the system 100 (or alternatively a single comparison
    value) based on the acts described with references to Tables.1 to 5.
    In another. representative embodiment, the number generated by the system 100 (as
    described above) is compared with a general range of possible scores. The general range is
30  divided into several discrete brackets, each bracket being associated with a different risk
    category (e.g. as one of defensive, moderately defensive, balanced, growth or high
    growth). An example is show in Table I below for a general range of 0 to 5. Depending

                                                 13
   on the value of the number generated by the system 100, the number will fall into a
   different bracket, which determines the risk category applicable to the user. In this
   embodiment, the risk profile data includes risk category data representing a risk category
   applicable to the user. The risk category can be used to generate respective upper bound
 5 and lower bound values for each attribute of the product defined in the configuration data
   of the system 100 (or alternatively a single comparison value) based on the acts described
   with reference to Tables 2 to 5.
                        Score range                            Risk category
                              0                                     Cash
                           0- 1.5                                Defensive
                         1,51 -2.5                         Moderately defensive
                         2.51-3.5                                 Balanced
                         3.51 - 4.5                                Growth
                         4.51  - 5.0                            High growth
                                              Table 1
10 Inanother representative embodiment, the risk profile data includes risk allocation data
   representing a different predetermined value for each attribute defined in the configuration
   data for the system 100. Table 2 provides an example of the predetermined values for
   different attributes defined based on asset type (e.g. based on Table 1) for different risk
   categories of a user (e.g. based on the total score value). Table 3 provides an example of
15 the predetermined values for different attributes defined based on asset performance for
   different risk categories of a user (e.g. based on the total score value). The respective
    range for each attributes represented by the risk allocation data can be used to generate
    respective upper bound and lower bound values for each attribute of the product defined in
    the configuration data of the system 100 (or alternatively a single comparison value) based
20  on the acts described with reference to Table 4 to 5.

                                                  14
    Asset                  Defensive      Moderately      Balanced       Growth        High
                                           defensive                         -        growth
    Cash                      20%              10%           4%             2%           1%
    Domestic fixed            30%             23%            15%            8%           0%
    interest
    International fixed        8%              17%           11%            5%          0%
    interest
    Domestic property          14%             10%           10%           10%           5%
    Domestic shares            8%             22%            34%           43%         45%
    International shares       8%              18%           26%           32%          49%
                                                Table 2
    Asset                   Defensive     Moderately      Balanced       Growth         High
                                            defensive                                 growth
    Defensive                  70%             50%           30%            15%           1%
    Growth                     30%             50%            70%           85%=         99%
                                                Table 3
   In another representative embodiment, the risk profile data includes risk allocation data
 5 representing a different range of values for each of the attributes defined in the
   configuration data for the system 100. Table 4 provides an example of the predetermined
   ranges of values associated with each attribute defined in the configuration data for the
   system 100. Each range is defined by a respective upper bound value and lower bound
   value. A fixed predetermined range may be defined for each attribute based on the risk
10 category of the user (e.g. based on the Table 1). Alternatively, the range for each attribute
   may be defined relative to the predetermined values for each attribute (e.g. based on either
   Tables 2 or 3) for a user of a particular risk category (e.g. based on Table 1). For example,
   depending on the risk category of the user, the relative difference between the upper bound
   value and lower bound value for each attribute (relative to the reference value for the
15 attribute from Tables 2 or 3) may each be different and may be independently defined by
   the configuration data for the system 100.

                                                 I5
    Asset                                            Balanced              Acceptable Range
    Cash                                                4%                       3 - 6%
    Domestic fixed interest                            15%                     10 - 20%
    International fixed interest                       11%                     10 - 12%
    Domestic property                                  10%                      8-12%
    Domestic shares                                    34%                     25-50%
    International shares                               26%                     20 - 35%
                                               Table 4
   As an alternative to Table 4, the risk profile data may include risk allocation data
   representing a single comparison value (shown as the "Average" value in Table 5)
   generated by the system 100. The comparison value may be generated based on the actual
 5 relative allocation of the assets of the product across each of the attributes defined in the
   configuration data for the system 100 (which may be defined by product allocation data in
   the product data for a product), and also the predetermined values for each attribute (e.g.
   based on either Tables 2 or 3) for a user of a particular risk category (e.g. based on Table
    1). The values in the sector deviation column in Table 5 can be generated based on an
10 absolute percentage difference between the values in the product allocation field and the
   values in the balanced field. For example, the sector deviation value for the cash attribute
   can be generated by dividing an absolute difference between the values in the product
   allocation and balanced fields (i.e. 2.7% - 4%) by the value in the balanced field (i.e. 4%),
   and then multiplying the result by 100%. The values in the balanced field in Table 5 can
15 be substituted with the values for the corresponding attributes defined in either Tables 2 or
   3. The comparison value (corresponding to the average field in Table 5) can be generated
   by taking an average of the sector deviation values for each attribute in Table 5.
      Asset                        Product allocation       Balanced         Sector deviation
      Cash                                 2.7%                 4%                 32.5%
      Domestic fixed interest             17.2%                 15%                 14.7%
      International fixed                  9.1%                 11%                 173%
      interest
      Domestic property                   10.0%                 10%                  0%
      Domestic shares                     37.5%                34%                  10.3%
      International shares               23.5%                 26%                  9.6%
      AVERAGE                                                                      14.1%
                                               Table 5

                                                  16
   As is it common foi individual investors to use financial advisory services, it should be
   understood that any of the above user profile information, portfolio data, target value data,
   or risk profile data could be provided by a financial adviser on behalf of the individual
   investor. As such information is received, the system 100 causes such information to be
 5 stored in the database 114 for future use.
   Once this information has been received, the system 100 then performs the step 220 of
   generating a projected value of the user's superannuation investment portfolio.             This
   includes the initial step 222 of retrieving, from the database 114, the user's date of birth,
   retirement goal amount, and desired retirement age. It is then necessary to perform the
10 step 224 of accessing the performance data of the user's superannuation fund, which
   includes the historical rate of return for each of the assets in the user's superannuation
   investment portfolio. The final step 226, which is detailed in Figure 3, involves the
   calculation of the estimated funds (i.e. the projected value) that will be available to the user
   upon retirement, based upon the current information.
15 As shown in Figure 3, the calculation of the estimated retirement funds includes the
   optional preliminary step 270 of accessing the user's investment risk profile, which
   includes the risk profile data outlined above. This data is used to determine the most
   appropriate period of return for which to complete the projection value calculations. For
   example, if the user's investment risk profile indicates that they have a 'High Risk'
20 investment portfolio (i.e. an investment portfolio focused on asset growth), then the system
    100 at step 272 will use a i-year return when calculating the estimated retirement funds. If
   the user's investment risk profile indicates that they have a balanced investment portfolio,
   then the system 100 at step 274 will use a 3-year return when calculating the estimated
   retirement funds. Finally, if the user's investment risk profile indicates that they a 'Low
25 Risk' investment portfolio (i.e. a moderately defensive, low growth, investment portfolio),
   then a 5-year return will be used when calculating the estimated retirement funds.
   Additionally, at steps 272, 274 or 276, the system 100 takes into account the performance
   data of the user's specified superannuation fund, which includes the fund unit pricing for
   the period of the calculation. For example, the system 100 may use performance data for a
30 historical period of 1, 3 or 5 years. Alternatively, and provided that such information
   exists, the system 100 at step 280 may use all available historical performance data
   corresponding to the user's specified superannuation fund.

                                                   17
   In calculating the estimated retirement funds based on the above information, the system
    100 at step 286 may also take into account available data related to one or more of the
   following factors:
   *       superannuation       fund fees (as shown at step 282) which represent the
 5         administration and/or management fees that are payable by the user to their
           specified superannuation fund;
   *       financial advisory fees (as shown at step 284) which represent the fixed or
           variable service fees that are payable to the user's financial adviser;
   e       concessional contribution requirements which, for example, specify that the
10         concessional cap for individuals under 50 is indexed to the average weekly
           ordinary time earnings (AWOTE), and then rounded- down to the nearest multiple
           of $5,000, and that the concessional cap for individuals over 50 is $50,000 per
           annum;
   e       non-concessional restrictions which, for example, specify that individuals are
15         allowed to contribute $150,000 per annum, or $450,000 over three years (with a
           maximum possible contribution of $450,000 in a single year under the "bring
           forward" rule);
   *       government co-contribution schemes which can be used to develop an alternate
           contribution strategy for a user that satisfies the relevant eligibility criteria;
20 o       lump-sum contributions which take into account both the concessional and non
           concessional contribution caps stipulated by the relevant regulatory body;
   e       aged pension qualification requirements which specify the age at which
           individuals become eligible for the aged pension;
   0       aged pension assettincome tests which specify an individual's (or couple's)
25         eligibility for the aged pension based upon an assessment of their measured income
           and/or assets;
   *       aged pension payment rates which specify the pension amount that is payable to
           an eligible individual upon reaching the qualification age for the aged pension;
   *       deeming rates which take into threshold limits on income sources from financial
30         investments; and

                                                   I8
   *        individual income tax rates which are used to calculate the amount of income tax
            payable on an individual's fixed income.
   Based upon a combination of this information, the system 100 at step 286 calculates the
   estimated retirement funds (i.e. the projected value of a user's superannuation investment
 5 portfolio at their desired date of retirement).
   Referring again to Figure 2, the system 100 at step 230 performs a comparison of the target
   value for the user's superannuation investment portfolio, with the projected value of the
   user's superannuation investment portfolio.           If the projected value of the user's
   -superannuation investment portfolio is less than the target value, the system 100 generates
10 a number of investment optimisation strategies which, also at step 230, are presented to the
   user in the form of an alert message. These investment optimisation strategies take into
   account the information used to calculate the projected value of the investment portfolio,
   and provide the -user with option to increase their contributions as to meet their desired
   retirement goal (i.e. the target value of their superannuation investment portfolio).
15  Preferably, the alert message will be transmitted to the user by short message service
    (SMS) and/or email message. It is also preferable that the email message contains a URL
    link to a webpage containing the various investment optimisation strategies. An example
    of such a webpage is illustrated in Figure 13.
    The investment optimisation strategies presented to the user may include one or more of
20  the following:
    (1)     an option to increase concessional contributions by a specified amount (e.g. $41 per
            week), as shown at step 242;
    (2)     an option to increase non-concessional contributions by a specified amount (e.g. 35
            per week), as shown at step 244;
25  (3)     an option to customise the investment optimisation strategy by combining or
            modifying the various contribution options, as shown at step 232; and
    (4)     an.option to maintain the current investment contribution strategy, as shown at step
            248.
    If the user selects either of options (1) or (2), then the system 100 at step 250 presents the
30  user with a webpage which requires the user to confirm their selection. An example of
    such a webpage is illustrated at Figure 141 This webpage may also include a graphical

                                                  19
   representation of the new projected value of the user's superannuation investment portfolio
   based upon the implementation of the selected investment optimisation strategy.
   If the user selects option (3), then the system 100 at step 246 presents the user with a
   webpage which allows a user to customize their superannuation investment contributions.
 5 An example of such a webpage is illustrated at Figure 15. The user then has the ability to
   make adjustments to one or more of their concessional contributions, non-concessional
   contributions, and lump-sum contributions. It is preferable that the system 100 will alert
   the user if their selection of desired contributions exceeds the government contribution
   caps. It is also possible for the user to make adjustments with respect to the historical
10 performance data of their specified superannuation fund that is used in the projected value
   calculations.   Finally, the user may 'also be provided with the option to delay their
   customized investment contribution strategy by a predefined number of years. Based upon
   the user's modifications to these various options, the system 100 performs a real-time
   calculation of the new projected value of the user's superannuation investment portfolio,
15 and this new projected value is presented to the user on the webpage. Once the user has
   decided upon a desirable investment contribution strategy, it is then possible for the user to
   confirm this strategy.
   If option (4) is selected by the user, then no further action will be taken, and the user will
   be re-directed to the homepage.
20 For each of options (1), (2) or (3), once the user has confirmed their optimisation
   investment strategy, they are presented, at step 260, 'with a webpage which includes one or
   one or more of:
   *       verification of the optimisation investment strategy selected, and confirmation of
           the time and date on which the selection was made; and
25 *       an option to send notification of the selection to the user's specified financial
           adviser, together with a request for a Statement of Advice.
   An example of such a webpage is illustrated at Figure 16. If the user selects the option to
   send the notification to their specified financial adviser, then the system 100 causes an
   email message (or similar alert message) to be transmitted to the financial adviser. This
30 email message contains details of the user's selection of optimisation investment strategy,
   together with the request for a Statement of Advice.

                                                   20
   As discussed above, at step 230, if the projected value of the user's superannuation
   investment portfolio is less than the target value, the system 100 generates an alert message
   to the user in the form of an email message and/or SMS. An optional process 400 of
   monitoring the alert message sent -to the user is shown in Figure 4.              This process
 5 commences with the step 402 of generating and transmitting an alert message (e.g.
   'Quickview' notification) to the user. The system 100 then monitors the status of the alert
   message and, preferably, whether an embedded URL link in the alert message has been
   activated by the user. More specifically, at step 404, the system 100 monitors whether the
   user has taken any action (i.e. a selection of an optimised investment strategy or a rejection
10 of proposed options) within 7 days from the date of transmittal of the alert message. If
   such an action been performed by the user, then at step 410 the system 100 sends
   notification of the user's selection to their specified financial adviser.
   If the user does not take any action within 7 days from transmittal of the alert message,
   then the system 100 at step 406 sends a reminder alert message to the user via email and/or
15  SMS. If the system 100 at step 408 determines that the user has taken action within 7 days
    from the transmittal of this reminder alert message, then the process 400 proceeds to step
   410 as described above. Alternatively, if the system 100 at step 408 determines that the
    user has not taken action with 7 days from the transmittal of the reminder alert message,
    then the system 100 at step 412 sends an alert contact message to the user's specified
20  financial adviser including a request for the financial adviser to contact the user.
    Optionally, after either step 410 or step 412, and in response to notification of the user's
    selection of investment optimisation strategy, the user's financial adviser generates a
    Statement of Advice and sends this to the user. In a particularly preferred embodiment of
    the present invention, the system 100 may send an send a preliminary SMS message to the
25  user to notify them that their financial adviser has reviewed their selected investment
    optimisation strategy, and desired retirement goal amount.
    When an existing user returns to the homepage, they will preferably be provided with a
    summary of their current superannuation investment portfolio, including an indication of
    whether the projected value of their superannuation investment portfolio meets with their
30  target value (i.e. desired retirement goal amount). An example of such a webpage is
     illustrated at Figure 5.

                                                 21
   Modifications and improvements to the invention will be readily apparent to those skilled
   in the art. Such modifications and improvements are intended to be within the scope of this
   invention.
   The word 'comprising' and forms of the word 'comprising' as used in this description and
 5 in the claims does not limit the invention claimed to exclude any variants or additions.
   In this specification, including the background section, where a document, act or item of
   knowledge is referred to or discussed, this reference or discussion is not an admission that
   the document, act or item of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority
   date, publicly available, known to the public, part of common general knowledge, or
10 known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is
   concerned.

                                              22
CLAIMS
 .   A computer-implemented method of optimising a value of a user's investment
     portfolio based on a user profile for said user, said method comprising:
     (i)     accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value
             of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
             portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
     (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
              valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of
              return for each of said assets;
     (iii)    accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
              predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
              including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
              each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of
              said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
              data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
              values associated with each of said parameters;
     (iv)     generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
              recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
              value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
              value; and
     (v)      generating a user display interface- for displaying one or 'more of said
              recommended values to said user.
2.    The method according to claim 1, wherein step (ii) includes:
      accessing, from said user profile, risk profile data representing said user's threshold
      level of investment risk for said portfolio; and
      generating said projected value based on said performance data and said risk profile
      data, wherein said projected value is generated based on said performance data
      captured over a shorter period of time when said user's risk profile data represents a
      higher threshold for risk, and said projected value is generated based on said

                                           23
   performance data captured over a longer period of time when said user's risk profile
   data represents a lower threshold for risk.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said valuation data further includes fees
   data representing a total value of any fees and disbursements associated with the
   management of said portfolio.
4: The method according to claim            1, wherein said predetermined investment
   optimisation strategies include one or more of the following:
   increasing said user's concessional contributions to said portfolio;
   increasing said user's non-concessional contributions to said portfolio; and
   increasing a lump sum contribution to said portfolio;
   wherein, said configuration data includes data representing a value of said
   contributions corresponding to each of said strategies.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said recommended values for each of said
   parameters are generated to fall within the corresponding ranges for each of said
   parameters defined by said user preference data.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said user display interface includes one or
   more adjustable user interface components to allow said user to modify said
   recommended values for one or more of said parameters, said method further
   including generating an updated projected value in response to an adjustment to any of
   said user interface components.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said user interface components allow said
   user to set a new recommended value for each of said parameters, said new
   recommended value being outside of the range of values defined in said user
   preference data.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (v) includes generating a report instead
   of said user display interface.
9. A computer-implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment
   portfolio based on a user profile for said user, said system comprising:

                                               24
    (i)       means for accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a
              target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future
              timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)      means for generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe
              based on valuation data, including performance data representing a historical
              rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)     means for accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality
              of predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
              including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
              each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of
              said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
              data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
              values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)      means for generating, based on said configuration data and said user
              preference data, recommended values for each of said parameters for
              increasing said projected value to minimise a difference between said
              projected value and said target value; and
    (v)       means for generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of
              said recommended values to said user.
10.  A computer-implemented. system of optimising a value of a user's investment
     portfolio based on a, user profile for said user, said system comprising one or more
     computers including:
     at least one processor;
     an interface between said processor and a data network;
     a database for containing information relating to said user profile and said user's
     investment portfolio; and
     at least one storage medium operatively coupled to said processor, said storage
     medium containing program instructions for execution by said processor, said
     program instructions causing said processor to execute the steps of:

                                             25   .
    (i)     accessing, from said user profile stored in said database, target value data
            representing a target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a
            predetermined future timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more
            assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)    generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timefrnme based on
            valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of
            return for each of said assets;
    (iii)   accessing from said database, configuration data and user preference data for a
            plurality, of    predetermined      investment   optimisation    strategies, said
            configuration data including data representing one or more variable parameters
            associated with each of said strategies and data representing rules for
            generating a value of said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters,
            said user preference data from said user profile including data representing a
            range of user defined values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)    generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
            value; and
    (v)     generating a user display interface for displaying, via said data network, one or
            more of said recommended values to said user.
11.  A tangible computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored
     thereon for performing a method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio
     based on a user profile for said user, said method comprising:
    (i)     accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value
            of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
             valuation data, including performance data representing a historical rate of
             return for each of said assets;

                                            26
    (iii)   accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
            including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
            each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value of
            said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
            data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
            values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)    generating, based on said configuration data and said user reference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
            value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
            value; and
    (v)     generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said
            recommended values to said user.
12. A computer-implemented method of optimising a value of a user's. investment
    portfolio based on a user profile for said user, said method comprising:
    (i)     accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value
            of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio; .
    (ii)    generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
            risk profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including
            performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)   accessing configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
            including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
            each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for
            said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
            data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
            values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)     generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected

                                            27
              value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
              value; and
    (v)       generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said
              recommended values to said user.
13, The method according to claim 12, wherein said step (ii) includes generating said
     projected value based on said performance data and said risk profile data, wherein said
    projected value is generated based on said performance data captured over a shorter
     period of time when said user's risk profile data represents a higher threshold for risk,
     and said projected value is generated based on said performance data captured over a
     longer period of time when said user's risk profile data represents a lower threshold
     for risk,
    said risk profile data representing said user's threshold level of investment risk for
     said portfolio.
14.  The method according to claim 12, wherein said valuation data further includes fees
     data representing a total value of any fees and disbursements associated with the
     management of said portfolio.
15.  The method according to claim 12, wherein said predetermined investment
     optimisation strategies include one or more of the following:
     increasing said user's concessional contributions to said portfolio;
     increasing said user's non-concessional contributions to said portfolio;.and
     increasing a lump sum contribution to said portfolio;
     wherein, said configuration data includes data representing a value of said
     contributions corresponding to each of said strategies.
16.  The method according to claim 15, wherein said recommended values for each of said
     parameters are generated to fall within the corresponding ranges for each of said
     parameters defined by said user preference data.
17.  The method according to claim 12, wherein said user display interface includes one or
     more adjustable user interface components to allow said user to modify said

                                            28
    recommended values for one or more of said parameters, said method further
    including generating an updated projected value in response to an adjustment to any of
    said user interface components.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said user interface components allow said
    user to set a new recommended value for each of said parameters, said new
    recommended value being outside of the range of values defined in said user
    preference data.
19. The method according to claim 12, wherein said step (v) involves generating a report
    instead of said user display interface.
20. A computer-implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment
    portfolio based on a user profile for said user, said system comprising:
    (i)     means for accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a
            target value of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future
            timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)    means for generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe
            based on risk profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including
            performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)   means for access configuration data and user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
            including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
            each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for
            said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
            data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
            values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)    means for generating, based on said configuration data and said user
            preference data, recommended values for each of said parameters for
             increasing said projected value to minimise a difference between said
            projected value and said target value; and
    (v)      means for generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of
             said recommended values to said user.

                                             29
21.  A computer-implemented system of optimising a value of a user's investment
     portfolio based on a user profile for said user, said system comprising one or more
     computers including:
     at least one processor;
     an interface between said processor and a data network;
     a database for containing information relating to said user profile and said user's
     investment portfolio; and
     at least one storage medium operatively coupled to said processor, said storage
     medium containing program instructions for execution by said processor, said
     program instructions causing said processor to execute the steps of:
    (i)       accessing, from said user profile stored in said database, target value data
              representing a target value of said portfolio to -be achieved within a
              predetermined future timeframe, and portfolio data identifying one or more
              assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)      generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
              risk profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including
             performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)     accessing from said database, configuration data and user preference data for a
             plurality    of   predetermined    investment   optimisation    strategies, - said
             configuration data including data representing one or more variable parameters
             associated with each of said strategies and data representing rules for
             generating a value for said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters,
             said user preference data from said user profile including data representing a
             range of user defined values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)     generating, based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
             recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
             value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
             value; and

                                              30
    (v)      generating a user display interface for displaying, via said data network, one or
             more of said recommended values to said user.
22.  A tangible computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored
     thereon for performing a method of optimising a value of a user's investment portfolio
     based on a user profile for said user, said method comprising:
    (i)      accessing, from said user profile, target value data representing a target value
             of said portfolio to be achieved within a predetermined future timeframe, and
            portfolio data identifying one or more assets of said portfolio;
    (ii)     generating a projected value of said portfolio within said timeframe based on
             risk profile data from said user profile, and valuation data including
            performance data representing a historical rate of return for each of said assets;
    (iii)   access configuration data and -user preference data for a plurality of
            predetermined investment optimisation strategies, said configuration data
             including data representing one or more variable parameters associated with
            each of said strategies and data representing rules for generating a value for
             said portfolio based on one or more of said parameters, said user preference
            data from said user profile including data representing a range of user defined
             values associated with each of said parameters;
    (iv)     generating based on said configuration data and said user preference data,
            recommended values for each of said parameters for increasing said projected
             value to minimise a difference between said projected value and said target
             value; and
    (v)      generating a user display interface for displaying one or more of said
            recommended values to said user.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
