                                        ABSTRACT
       A method of forming a duct section from a web of material includes the steps of
forming a series of perforations in a web of material, the series of perforations defining
an outline of one of a hole or notch in a finished duct section, forming a male lock bend
and a female lock seam in first opposed edges of the web of material, forming flanges in
second opposed edges of the web of material, removing the portion of material interior
to the series of perforations to form the hole or notch, and bending the web of material
to form the finished duct section.

         3/4
K-zn
             C
             (C
     (Ni

                                               1
    METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANIPULATING METAL WORKPIECES
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]  This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
62/425,297, filed on November 22, 2016, which is herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]  The present invention relates generally to manipulating metal workpieces and,
more particularly, to a method and apparatus for forming features in a sheet of material
for subsequent bending into an HVAC duct section.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]  A plasma cutter is a cutting tool used in manufacturing industries for cutting
electrically conductive materials such as steel, aluminum, brass and copper. Plasma
cutters work by creating an electrical channel of superheated, electrically ionized gas
("plasma") from the plasma cutter, through the material to be cut, thus forming a
completed circuit back to the plasma cutter via a grounding clamp. This is
accomplished by forcing a compressed gas (e.g., oxygen, nitrogen, argon shop air, etc.)
through a focused nozzle at high speed toward the workpiece/ material to be cut. An
electrical arc is then formed within the gas, between an electrode near or integrated into
the gas nozzle and the work piece itself. The electrical arc ionizes some of the gas,
thereby creating an electrically conductive channel of plasma. As electricity from the
torch travels down this plasma, it delivers sufficient heat to melt through the
workpiece. At the same time, much of the high velocity plasma and compressed gas
blow the hot molten metal away, thereby separating i.e. cutting through the work piece.

                                               2
In recent years, plasma cutters have been integrated with computer numeric control
systems, providing greater flexibility for the plasma cutter to cut diverse shapes in
workpiece, based on the instructions programmed into the machine's numerical control.
[0004]  In HVAC industry, box-shaped ducts are extensively used in heating and
ventilating systems to distribute heated or cooled air throughout a structure. The ducts
are commonly formed in sections of predetermined length, which are then connected
end-to-end to form a continuous air distribution duct. The material from which the
duct sections are formed is typically sheet of material of a desired gauge fed from a roll
or coil of material. Recently, plasma cutters have been employed in the duct fabrication
process, such as to cut the sheet material into shapes and configurations necessary for
forming the duct sections, and to form notches, taps, access doors and the like in such
duct sections. Typically, these cuts are made in the sheet material prior to bending into
a completed duct section. As will be readily appreciated, forming structures such as
notches, taps, and access doors in the sheet material requires flexible moving of the
plasma cutter over the sheet material.
[0005]  While the use of plasma cutters has proven advantageous to the duct fabrication
process, certain drawbacks do exist. For example, removing quantities of material from
the sheet material to form notches, taps, access doors and like features prior to bending
into a completed duct section can greatly reduce the integrity of the sheet material,
rendering it less structurally sound and making the subsequent rolling and bending
processes much more difficult.
[0006]  In view of the above, there is a need for an improved method and apparatus for
fabricating HVAC duct sections using a plasma cutter
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

                                               3
[0007] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for
manipulating a metal workpiece.
[0008] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for
fabricating HVAC duct sections.
[0009] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for
forming notches, taps, access doors and related features in HVAC duct sections.
[0010] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for
forming notches, taps, access doors and related features in HVAC duct sections, which
does not compromise the integrity of the sheet material prior to bending.
[0011] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for
fabricating HVAC duct sections more quickly and efficiently, and at a lower cost, as
compared to existing methods and devices.
[0012] These and other objects are achieved by the present invention.
[0013]      According to an embodiment of the present invention, a method of
manipulating a sheet of material includes loading cutting parameter data into a
controller, the cutting parameter data defining an architecture of at least one feature to
be formed in a sheet of material, and forming a series of perforations in the sheet of
material in accordance with the cutting parameter data, the series of perforations
forming an outline of the at least one feature.
[0014] According to another embodiment of the preset invention an apparatus for
manipulating a sheet of material includes a cutting table for supporting a sheet of

                                               4
material, a cutting device positioned adjacent to the cutting table, and a controller
operatively connected to the cutting device and configured to control a position of the
cutting device with respect to the cutting table. The controller is further configured to
control the cutting device to form a series of perforations in the sheet of material,
wherein the series of perforations define an architecture of at least one feature to be
formed in the sheet of material.
[0015] According to yet another embodiment of the present invention, a method of
forming a duct section from a web of material includes the steps of forming a series of
perforations in a web of material, the series of perforations defining an outline of one of
a hole or notch in a finished duct section, forming a male lock bend and a female lock
seam in first opposed edges of the web of material, forming flanges in second opposed
edges of the web of material, removing the portion of material interior to the series of
perforations to form the hole or notch, and bending the web of material to form the
finished duct section.
[0016]
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]     The present invention will be better understood from reading the following
description of non-limiting embodiments, with reference to the attached drawings,
wherein below:
[0018]     FIG. 1 is a top plan view of a sheet of material having features produced
using a plasma cutter of the prior art.
[0019]     FIG. 2 is a schematic plan view of a production line on which a workpiece is
manipulated and formed into ventilation duct.

                                                5
[0020]     FIG. 3 is a simplified schematic illustration of a plasma cutting station of the
production line of FIG. 2.
[0021]     FIG. 4 is a top plan view of a sheet of material having features produced
using the method and apparatus of the present invention.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0022]     FIG. 1 illustrates a sheet of material processed by a plasma cutter of the prior
art. The sheet of material 10 may take the form of any type of electrically conductive
material known in the HVAC industry for manufacturing a ventilation duct such as, for
example, steel, aluminum, brass, copper, etc. As is known in the art, when a plasma
cutter (not shown) is applied to the sheet of material 10, an electrical channel of
superheated, electrically ionized gas is continuously blown through a focused nozzle at
high speed toward the surface of the sheet of material 10, melting through the sheet of
material 10 by delivering sufficient heat toward its surface, while the head of the plasma
cutter moves above the sheet of material. A plasma cutter can therefore be used to
create various features in a sheet of material such as sheet metal. As illustrated in FIG. 1,
for example, a continuous hole seam 12 can be created by the plasma cutter to form a
hole 11 in the material, and/or a continuous notch seam 14 can be cut on the corner of
the sheet of material 10 by the plasma cutter to create a notch 13. Therefore, by
controlling the moving pathway of the plasma cutter, various types of structures and
features can be created on the sheet of material 10 including, but not limited to, holes,
notches, taps, access doors, etc. With existing methods and apparatuses, however, all
the cutting seams created by the plasma cutter are continuous, and hence the cut off
portion of the sheet of material 10, such as the portion of material within the hole 11 or
notch 13, are removed completely upon conclusion of the plasma cutting process.

                                                  6
[0023]      Turning now to FIG. 2, a system 100, in the form of a production line for
forming metal HVAC ducts from a thin sheet of material according to an embodiment
of the present invention is illustrated. As shown therein, the system 100 includes at
least, a start end 110, a first station 120, a second station 140, a third station 160, and a
finish end 180. At the start end 110, a sheet of material, preferably sheet metal, of a
desired gauge and width is supplied in large rolls or coils. As is well known to those
skilled in the art, the sheet of material from one of the coils is fed by a feeder (not
shown) into the first station 120.
[0024]      In an embodiment, the first station 120 may include a coil straightener, a
plasma cutting table, a shearing section, and a plasma cutter, which each may take one
of various forms known in the art. The coil straightener contains a plurality of rolls that
will remove the set in the material caused by it being wound on a coil. The coil
straightener thus straightens the sheet of material and feeds the sheet of material to the
plasma cutting table where the sheet is cut to size and various features are cut in the
material, as discussed below.
[0025]      As best shown in FIG. 3, the plasma cutting section of the first station 120
includes a plasma cutting table 210 supporting a sheet of material 212 after it has been
unwound from the rolls and straightened with the coil straightener. The plasma cutting
section also includes a plasma cutter 214 suspended above, and spaced from, the
plasma cutting table 210. As shown therein, the plasma cutter 214 is preferably
mounted on a track for movement along a pair of axes 216, 218 such that plasma cutter
214 is capable of being positioned over any point above the table 210 and sheet of
material 212. The plasma cutter may generally take the form of any plasma cutting
device known in the art, and is electrically connected to a power source (not shown)
and a controller 220 (or otherwise in communication with the controller 220). As
discussed in detail hereinafter, the controller 220 is configured to control the movement
of the plasma cutter 220 along the axes 216, 218. In addition, in certain embodiments,

                                               7
the controller 220 may also be configured to control the height of the plasma cutter 214
with respect to the sheet of material 212. Importantly, the controller 220 is configured to
control operation of the plasma cutter 214, and the position thereof with respect to the
sheet of material 212, according to a schematic diagram and/or cutting diagram for the
sheet of material 212 stored in memory, as discussed hereinafter.
[0026]     In the preferred embodiment, the controller 220 and/or plasma cutter 214 is
capable of downloading a blueprint or other technical drawings, diagrams or cutting
positional data (also referred to as cutting parameter data that defines an architecture of
features to be formed in a finished duct section) for cutting the sheet of material from
most CAD MEP/Revit software packages. In an embodiment, the controller 220 has
input/output capabilities so that user can also design and input the blueprints or
technical drawings for plasma cutting into the controller 220, allowing for custom
cutting of features and other structures on the sheet of material 212. The
blueprints/cutting data can be either pre-entered from the controller prior to the
plasma cutting process, or entered simultaneously while the plasma cutting is
conducted on the sheet of material. The moving pathway of the plasma cutter during
the plasma cutting process is determined by the cutting data it receives from the
controller 220.
[0027]     In an embodiment, during the plasma cutting process, the plasma cutter 214
selectively moves, under control of the controller 220, in at least two directions. In
particular, the plasma cutter 214 is capable of moving along one X axis (e.g., axis 216)
and one Y axis (e.g., axis 218). In an embodiment, The X axis neither overlaps nor is
parallel to the Y axis. In an embodiment, the X axis is orthogonal to the Y axis. In
another embodiment, the angle formed by the X axis and Y axis can be any degree
between zero to one hundred and eighty degrees. Being capable of moving along
unparalleled X axis and Y axis, the moving range of the plasma cutter 214 covers the
entire area of the plasma cutting table 210. Therefore, the plasma cutter can be

                                               8
positioned automatically to reach to any single point on the sheet of material 212 for
cutting any desired structures, without manually adjusting the position of the sheet of
material 212.
[0028]     The controller 220 is operable to control the plasma cutter 214 to make
continuous cuts in the sheet of material 212, so as to completely remove a portion of
material from the sheet to form hole 21 and notch 23, as shown in FIG, 1, as well as
other shapes and structures. Importantly, however, the controller 220 and plasma
cutter 220 are also operable to create perforated cuts (more generally, perforations) in
the sheet of material 212. In this respect, the plasma cutter 214 is operable in both a
continuous cutting mode or a perforated cutting mode.
[0029]     For example, as shown in FIG. 4, during operation, plasma created by the
plasma cutter 214 is directed toward the surface of a sheet of material (e.g., sheet of
material 20) and melts through the sheet of material 20 to create a cutting seam 22.
However, in the perforated cutting mode, instead of a continuous seam such as those
formed by known systems and devices, such as continuous hole seam 12 and
continuous notch seam 14, the cutting seam 22 created by the plasma cutter of the
present invention may be intermittent or perforated. In particular, the perforated seam
22 includes a series of perforations 25, cut by the plasma cutter 214, and small webs 26
of material which are not removed from the sheet 20 (but which remain intact after the
plasma cutting process). Hence, the outline of a hole 21 is formed by the perforated
seam 22. The web of material 28 (also referred to as a blank or knock-out) interior to the
perforated seam 22 remains partially attached to the metal sheet 20 due to the small
webs 26 of material connected the blank 28 to the larger sheet of material. A perforated
outline for a notch 23 can also be created by the plasma cutter in the same manner, by
forming a series of perforations and interposed webs in the shape of the notch 23. Like
the hole 21, importantly, the web of material forming undetached notch 23 remains
attached to the sheet of material 20 after the plasma cutting process is complete.

                                               9
[0030]     Perforated cutting may be carried out by selectively activating and
deactivating the plasma cutter 214 as it moves along the pre-programmed pathway. In
an embodiment, deactivating the plasma cutter may include, for example, interrupting
the supply of power to the plasma cutter or interrupting the supply of gas to the plasma
cutter. In other embodiments, perforated cuts may be made by increasing the spacing
distance of the plasma cutter 214 from the sheet of material so that the plasma cutter
does not cut through the sheet.
[0031]     Importantly, by preserving the partial attachment between the web of
material defining the undetached holes 21 or undetached notch 23 and the metal sheet
20, the structural integrity of the metal sheet 20 is maintained, which has heretofore not
been possible with prior art systems and methods. In particular, existing methods of
cutting various features such as holes, doors, notches and the like in the sheet of
material (where the material is completely removed during the cutting process) can
compromise the structural integrity of the sheet, making it difficult to perform
downstream manipulations of the sheet. By maintaining the structural integrity of the
sheet after the formation of holes, doors, notches and the like, by creating a perforated
outline of such features, however, subsequent processing of the material such as by
rolling and bending into completed duct sections, can be more easily effected.
[0032]     Referring once again to FIG. 2, after the plasma cutting of the features in
accordance with the stored cutting data is completed, the sheet of material 212 then
moves forward, from bottom to top in FIG. 2, into the shearing section of the first
station 120. The processed portion of the sheet of material 212 is sheared off from the
coil by the plasma cutter 214 (e.g., by making a continuous cut across the sheet). It
should also be noted that, in the present invention, cutting of all types of structures and
features, including shearing, can be accomplished by one plasma cutter on the plasma

                                                 10
cutting table in the first station, thereby saving time and reduce the number of the
plasma cutter needed.
[0033]      After the processed portion of the sheet of material is sheared off at the
shearing section of the first station 120, the sheet of material moves forward along an
axis of travel and enters into the second station 140. The second station 140 is
positioned in line orthogonal to the first axis of travel of the sheet of material. At the
second station 140, the pathway traveled by the sheet of material defines a second axis
of travel that is orthogonal to the first axis of travel of the sheet of material. The second
station 140 includes a male lock seam rolling former and a female lock seam roll former.
A pair of male and female lock seams formed by the rolling formers in a manner known
in the art. The roll former may generally take the form of any roll former commonly
known in the art that is utilized to form various style lock seams. In particular, the roll
former may be configured to form any style of lockseam, such as a Pittsburg seam or
Snaplock seam. The male and female lock seam are formed on opposite sides of the
sheet of material by the rolling former. In one embodiment, the male and female lock
seams are formed on the upper and bottom edges of the sheet of material. In another
embodiment, the male and female lock seams are formed on the right and left side of
the sheet of material.
[0034]      After formation of the male and female lock seams, the sheet of material
forward to the third station 160. As illustrated in FIG. 2, the third station 160 is
arranged substantially parallel to the first station 120 and is orthogonal to the second
station 140. Within the third station 160, the sheet of material moves along a third axis
that is orthogonal to the second axis of travel of sheet of material, and is parallel but in
an opposite direction as to the first axis of travel of the sheet of material. At the third
station 160, duplex flanges are formed by flange roll formers on a pair of opposite sides
of the sheet of material. The flange roll formers may take any form known in the art for
forming any type of transverse flange known in the art. It should be noted that the

                                                11
duplex flanges are formed on the sides opposite from the male and female lock seams
are
[0035]      In an embodiment, additional plasma cutting can be accomplished in the
third station 160, utilizing either the same plasma cutter 214 used at the first station 120,
or a separate, additional plasma cutter. Where a single plasma cutter is utilized, the
tracks 216, 218 are of a length sufficient to allow movement of the plasma cutter 214
between the first station 120 and the third station 160. In an embodiment, the plasma
cutter 214 may be mounted for movement to any position above the system/production
line 100, to carry out a variety of cutting operations. For example, at the third station
160, additional features such as notches, holes, taps, access doors and etc. can be cut into
the sheet of material, as desired.
[0036] After the flanges are completed in the third station 160, the processed sheet of
material moves forward and enters into the finished end 180. In the finished end 180,
the blanks/knock-outs formed by the perforated cuts, such like the hole portion 21 and
notch portion 23 in FIG. 4, which have remained attached to the sheet of material
during the rolling forming operations, are removed, either manually or automatically.
The processed sheet of material is then transferred to a bending brake (not shown)
where three 90 degree bends are made, and the male and female lock seams are
assembled to form the box-shaped duct section.
[0037]      In an embodiment, the apparatus 100 may include a computer or
programmable logic controller (not shown) and a plurality of switches, sensors and
timers that operate in conjunction with one another and according to a set of
instructions stored in memory. The computer or programmable logic controller can be
the same controller for controlling the plasma cutter, or can be a separate computer. In
particular, all of the operational sequences for forming a completed duct section may be

                                                12
carried out automatically under the control of the computer or programmable logic
controller in concert with the switches, sensors and timers.
[0038]     As discussed above, the method and apparatus of the present invention
therefore provide a means to create various holes, notches, access doors, windows, slits
and other features in a sheet of material without compromising the structural integrity
and rigidity of the material which is necessary to carry out downstream roll forming
and bending operations on the sheet. In particular, by creating perforated cuts that
define such holes, notches, access doors, windows, slits and other features in the sheet
of material while the sheet is flat, large voids in the sheet are not present during
subsequent roll forming and bending operations. Indeed, the material interior to the
perforated cuts can easily be removed using manual or automatic punching means after
such roll forming and/or bending operations. As such, the structural integrity of the
sheet of material is maintained until very near the end of the duct fabrication process,
providing for a level of precision and ease of assembly heretofore not seen in the prior
art.
[0039]     While the embodiments described above utilize a plasma cutter to make
perforated cuts in the sheet of material, it is contemplated that other means may also be
employed to make such perforated cuts such as, for example, mechanical cutting,
punching or machining devices or lasers (e.g., a fiber laser).
[0040]     Although this invention has been shown and described with respect to the
detailed embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those of skill in the art that
various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof
without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition, modifications may be
made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention
without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore, it is intended that the
invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed in the above detailed

                                              13
description, but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope
of this disclosure.

                                                14
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.     A method of manipulating a sheet of material, said method comprising the steps
of:
       loading cutting parameter data into a controller, said cutting parameter data
defining an architecture of at least one feature to be formed in a sheet of material; and
       forming a series of perforations in said sheet of material in accordance with said
cutting parameter data, said series of perforations forming an outline of said at least one
feature.
2.     The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
       subsequent to forming said series of perforations, forming at least one of a lock
seam and a flange in said sheet of material; and
       subsequent to forming said at least one of said lock seam and said flange in said
sheet of material, removing the portion of material interior to said series of perforations
to produce said at least one feature.
3.     The method according to claim 2, further comprising the step of:
       bending said sheet of material to form a duct section.
4.     The method according to claim 2, wherein:
       said series of perforations are formed using a plasma cutter.
5.     The method according to claim 3, wherein:
       said at least one feature is a hole, a notch, a tap or an access door.
6.     The method according to claim 4, further comprising the steps of:
       unwinding said sheet of material from a roll;
       straightening said sheet of material; and

                                                 15
        subsequent to forming said series of perforations in said sheet of material;
        shearing said sheet of material from said roll using said plasma cutter.
7.      The method according to claim 1, wherein:
        said sheet of material is sheet metal.
8.      The method according to claim 4, wherein:
        said plasma cutter is operable in a continuous cutting mode and a perforation
cutting mode.
9.      An apparatus for manipulating a sheet of material, comprising:
        a cutting table for supporting a sheet of material;
        a cutting device positioned adjacent to said cutting table; and
        a controller operatively connected to said cutting device and configured to
control a position of said cutting device with respect to said cutting table;
        wherein said controller is configured to control said cutting device to form a
series of perforations in said sheet of material; and
        wherein said series of perforations define an architecture of at least one feature to
be formed in said sheet of material.
10.     The apparatus of claim 9, wherein:
        said cutting device is a plasma cutter.
11.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        said at least one feature is a hole, a notch, a tap or an access door.
12.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        said controller is configured to control said cutting device to form a continuous
cut in said sheet of material to remove a portion of material from said sheet of material.

                                               16
13.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        said controller is configured to control said cutting device to form a continuous
cut in said sheet of material to shear said sheet of material from a web.
14.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        said sheet of material is sheet metal.
15.     The apparatus of claim 10, wherein:
        said plasma cutter is operable in a continuous cutting mode and a perforation
cutting mode.
16.     A method of forming a duct section from a web of material, comprising the steps
of:
        forming a series of perforations in a web of material, said series of perforations
defining an outline of one of a hole or notch in a finished duct section;
        forming a male lock bend and a female lock seam in first opposed edges of said
web of material;
        forming flanges in second opposed edges of said web of material;
        removing the portion of material interior to said series of perforations to form
said hole or said notch; and
        bending said web of material to form said finished duct section.
17.     The method according to claim 16, wherein:
        said series of perforations are formed using a plasma cutter.
18.     The method according to claim 17, further comprising the steps of:
        unwinding said web of material from a roll;
        straightening said web of material; and
        shearing said web of material from said roll using said plasma cutter.

                                             17
19.    The method according to claim 17, wherein:
       said plasma cutter is operable in a continuous cutting mode and a perforation
cutting mode.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

