                Process, Method, and System for Removing Mercury from Fluids
                                             ABSTRACT
 5         Trace levels of mercury in a natural gas are removed in a gas processing plant in an
   amine unit and / or a dehydrator. The mercury removal occurs concurrently with the removal
   of acid gases in an amine unit, e.g., an absorber or scrubber, with an amine solution
   containing a complexing agent. The mercury removal can also be carried out concurrently
   with the removal of water in a glycol dehydrator with the addition of a complexing agent to
10 the glycol solution. Volatile mercury in the natural gas is removed by the complexing agent,
   forming non-volatile mercury species in the rich amine/glycol solution.

                   Process, Method, and System for Removing Heavy Metals from Fluids
        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
                 This application is a divisional of Australian application no. 2013312430 filed on 6
   5   September 2013 and claiming priority from US Provisional Patent Application Nos.
       61/697867 and 61/697855 with a filing date of September 7, 2012. Australian application no.
       2013312430 is the national phase entry of PCT application PCT/US2013/058398 which was
       published as WO 2014/039758The entire contents of each of these publications is hereby
       incorporated by reference.
  10
       TECHNICAL FIELD
                [001]   The invention relates generally to a process, method, and system for removing
       heavy metals such as mercury from hydrocarbon fluids such as natural gas.
 15   BACKGROUND
                [002]   Exploration and production of deeper, lower quality oil and gas reserves has
      challenged refiners and gas processors with feedstocks having significantly higher sulfur
      content, increasing corrosion risks and other undesired impurities. Amine units for amine
      gas treating (also known as "gas sweetening" or "acid gas removal") refers to a group of
 20   processes or units that use aqueous solutions of various alkanolamines (commonly referred to
      simply as amines) for the removal of H 2S and CO 2 from gases. The removal is driven by
      either required product specification, e.g., natural gas that contains less than 4 ppm H 2S, or by
      environmental permission requirements, and/or by the minimization of corrosion problem of
      process equipment.
25             [003]   Amine treating units are commonly used in refineries as well as in
     petrochemical plants, natural gas processing plants, and other industries, for the removal of
     H 2S and CO 2 from gases. When volatile mercury is present in the gases to the amine units, it
     will appear in the products from the units, e.g., the sweetened gas (after removal of H2 S and
     C0 2) and rich amine containing H 2 S and CO 2. Mercury, CO 2 and H 2 S are to be removed
30   from the sweetened gas. Mercury in these products can impact the operations downstream
     from the amine units.
              [004]    Glycol dehydrators are sometimes used in to dry natural gas, e.g., the
     sweetened gas from the amine unit, to specifications. The glycol absorbs the moisture
     forming a dry gas. Wet glycol is recycled by vaporizing water at low pressure and at
                                                        1

        elevated temperatures. Methane and other hydrocarbons are somewhat soluble in triethylene
        glycol, particularly at high pressure and ambient temperature. These hydrocarbons are
        vaporized from the glycol as the pressure is reduced and temperature is increased. If mercury
        is present in the natural gas, a portion can appear in either the dry gas or vent to the
   5    atmosphere from glycol dehydrators.
                 [005] Absorbers have been used in the prior art to remove heavy metals such as
       mercury from the sweetened gas to specifications, e.g., 0.1 ptg/m 3 , with the use of an
       adsorbent bed of carbon, zeolite, or supported metals known in the art. The adsorbents are
       rather expensive and require disposal as a hazardous waste, or shipped to a re-processing
  10   facility.
                 [006] There is still a need for improved methods and systems to remove volatile
       mercury from fluids such as natural gas, vent gas or flue gas, allowing for the optimization of
       plant operations to minimize the equipment corrosion, mercury emission and any HES risks
       associated with mercury.
 15
       SUMMARY
                [006A] In one aspect of the invention there is provided a method for removing a trace
       amount of mercury in a natural gas feed, comprising: providing a gas feed containing a first
      concentration of volatile mercury and acid gases; contacting the gas feed in an absorber with
 20   an absorption solution comprising lean amine and a first complexing agent comprising
      volatile cations selected from ammonium polysulfide, amine polysulfides, and sulfanes,
      wherein the absorption solution concurrently removes mercury and non-volatile mercury and
      acid gases from the gas feed; generating a rich amine solution containing acid gases and at
      least 50% of the volatile mercury in the gas feed as non-volatile mercury and a treated gas
25    stream with a second concentration of acid gases and mercury.
               [006B] In another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for removing a
     trace amount of mercury in a gas feed, comprising: providing a gas feed containing a first
     concentration of volatile mercury and acid gases; and contacting the gas feed in an absorber
     with an absorption solution comprising lean amine and a complexing agent, generating a
30   treated gas stream with a reduced concentration of acid gases and mercury, wherein the
     absorption solution concurrently removes mercury and acid gases from the gas feed for a rich
     amine solution containing mercury and acid gases, wherein the complexing agent is selected
     from ammonium polysulfide, amine polysulfides, calcium polysulfide, sulfanes, and mixtures
     thereof; heating the rich amine solution containing acid gases and mercury in a solvent
                                                        2

         regeneration process employing at least a stripper and a reboiler, wherein at least a portion of
         the mercury is removed from the rich amine with acid gases as an overhead stream; and
         treating the overhead stream containing mercury by adsorption in a mercury removal
         adsorbent bed.
    5             [007] Disclosed herein is a method to remove mercury from a gas feed. The method
         comprises: providing a gas feed to a dehydrator, the gas feed containing acid gases, a first
        concentration of volatile mercury and water, contacting the gas feed with a glycol solution
        containing a complexing agent in the dehydrator, generating a dehydrated gas stream with a
        reduced concentration of water and mercury; and wherein mercury and water are
  10    concurrently removed from the gas feed for a rich glycol containing at least 50% of the
        volatile mercury in the gas feed as non-volatile mercury. In one embodiment, the method
        further comprises: heating the rich amine solution containing mercury and acid gases in a
        solvent regeneration process employing at least a stripper and a reboiler, generating a lean
        amine containing non-volatile mercury for recycle in an absorber to remove acid gases.
 15              [008] Also disclosed herein is a method for removing a trace amount of mercury in a
        natural gas feed is provided. The method comprises: providing a gas feed containing acid
       gases, a first concentration of volatile mercury and water, contacting the gas feed with a
       glycol solution in a dehydrator, the glycol solution containing a complexing agent for the
       glycol solution to concurrently remove the volatile mercury and water from the gas feed, for a
 20    rich glycol containing at least 50% of the volatile mercury in the gas feed as non-volatile
       mercury, generating a dehydrated gas stream having a reduced concentration of water and
       mercury, removing the non-volatile mercury from the rich glycol by at least one of filtration,
       centrifugation, precipitation, stripping, distillation, adsorption, ion exchange, electrodialysis,
      a hydrocarbon steam and separation step, and combinations thereof, generating a recycled
25    glycol stream having a reduced concentration of mercury of less than 50% of the non
      volatile mercury in the rich glycol.
                [009] Further disclosed herein is a method of removing mercury from a gas feed is
      provided, the method comprises the steps of: contacting the gas feed with an absorption
      solution in an absorber, the absorption solution comprising lean amine and a first complexing
30    agent, wherein the absorption solution concurrently removes mercury and acid gases from the
      gas feed generating a rich amine solution containing mercury and acid gases and a treated gas
      stream containing water vapor and a reduced concentration of acid gases and a second
      concentration of mercury, and wherein the second concentration of mercury is less than 50%
      of the first concentration of mercury; contacting the treated gas stream with a glycol solution
                                                         3

       in a dehydrator, wherein the glycol solution contains a second complexing agent for the
       glycol solution to concurrently remove mercury and water vapor from the treated gas stream,
       generating a rich glycol containing non-volatile mercury and a dehydrated gas stream with a
       reduced concentration of water and a third concentration of mercury, wherein the third
   5   concentration of mercury is less than 50% of the second concentration of mercury.
                [010]  Still further disclosed herein is a method for removing mercury from a gas
       feed is provided. The method comprises: providing a gas feed containing a first
      concentration of volatile mercury and acid gases; contacting the gas feed in an absorber with
      an absorption solution comprising lean amine and a first complexing agent comprising
 10   volatile cations selected from ammonium polysulfide, amine polysulfides, and sulfanes,
      wherein the absorption solution concurrently removes mercury and non-volatile mercury and
      acid gases from the gas feed; generating a rich amine solution containing acid gases and at
      least 50% of the volatile mercury in the gas feed as non-volatile mercury and a treated gas
      stream with a second concentration of acid gases and mercury.
15
      DRAWINGS
               [011] Figure 1 is a diagram illustrating an embodiment of a gas processing plant.
               [012] Figure 2 is a diagram illustrating an embodiment of an amine unit.
20   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
               [013] The following terms will be used throughout the specification and will have
     the following meanings unless otherwise indicated.
                                                       3a

                 [014]   "Trace amount" refers to the amount of mercury in the natural gas. The
        amount varies depending on the natural gas source, ranging from a few pg/Nm 3 to up to
        30,000 pg/Nm 3.
                 [015]  "Volatile mercury" refers to mercury that is present in the gas phase of well
   5   gas or natural gas. Volatile mercury is primarily elemental mercury (Hg0 ) but may also
       include some other mercury compounds (organic and inorganic mercury species).
                [016]    "Mercury sulfide" may be used interchangeably with HgS, referring to
       mercurous sulfide, mercuric sulfide, and mixtures thereof. Normally, mercury sulfide is
       present as mercuric sulfide with an approximate stoichiometric equivalent of one mole of
 10    sulfide ion per mole of mercury ion. Mercury sulfide is not appreciably volatile, and not an
       example of volatile mercury. Crystalline phases include cinnabar, metacinnabar and
       hypercinnabar with metacinnabar being the most common.
                [017]    "Sulfane" refers to a hydrogen-sulfur complex of the formula H2 Sx, where x
       >= 2. For purposes of this disclosure, hydrogen sulfide is not a sulfane.
 15             [018]   "Wet gas" refers to natural gas that contains less methane (e.g., less than 85%)
      and more ethane and other more complex hydrocarbons.
               [019]    "Amine" refers to amines for use in gas treating, including but not limited to
      monoethanolamine (MEA), diethanolamine (DEA), methyldiethanolamine (MDEA),
      aminoethoxyethanol(diglycoamine) (DGA), triethanolamine (TEA), diisopropylamine
20    (DIPA), proprietary amines known in the art and commercially available, and mixtures
      thereof      The most commonly used amines are the alkanolamines such as MEA, DEA, and
      MDEA.
               [020]   "Acid gas" refers to the product gas from an amine unit that contains acidic
      impurities, e.g., H2 S, CO 2, S02 and SO2 (SO,), NO and NO 2 (NO 2), chlorine, etc.      In one
25    embodiment, the acid gas is chemically absorbed in the liquid (solution or fluid). In another
     embodiment, the acid gas is dissolved in the liquid, e.g., an aqueous amine solution.
              [021]    "Amine unit" refers to a process or a group of processes using aqueous
     solutions of various amines to remove hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and carbon dioxide (C02)
     from gases. Amine unit can be located in refineries, petrochemical plants, natural gas
30   processing plants and other industries. It is also known as "gas sweetening" or "acid gas
     removal" unit.
              [022]    "Acid gas" refers to natural gas or any other gas mixture containing hydrogen
     sulfide (H2 S), carbon dioxide (CO2 ), or similar acidic gases.
                                                       4

                  [023] "Sour gas" refers to natural gas or flue gas prior to treatment, which contains
        acid gas and trace amounts of mercury as volatile mercury.
                 [024] "Rich amine" refers to the aqueous amine solution containing absorbed acid
        gas.
   5             [025]  "Lean amine" refers to the amine after being regenerated by steam stripping to
        remove the absorbed acid gases and produce regenerated amine solution for use in the
       absorber to treat sour gas.
                 [026]  "Sweetened gas" or "sweet gas" refers to a sour gas stream after treatment in
       an amine unit, after absorption / removal of acid gas by an amine solution, and flows
  to   overhead from the absorber (scrubber or amine contactor).
                 [027] In the sections that follow, the reference to "amine" is by way of
       exemplification only for a solute in which an acid gas is chemically absorbed and can be
       subsequently released. Similarly, the reference to "H2 S" is by way of exemplification only
       for an acid gas that can be chemically absorbed in a liquid system, e.g., amine, sour water,
 15    and can be subsequently released, and does not exclude other acid gases or mixtures thereof,
       e.g., mixture of H2S and C0 2 , mixture of SO 2, NO 2, chlorine.
                [028] Generally, natural gas streams comprise low molecular weight hydrocarbons
       such as methane, ethane, propane, other paraffinic hydrocarbons that are typically gases at
      room temperature, etc. Mercury is present in natural gas as volatile mercury, including
 20   elemental mercury Hgo, in levels ranging from about 0.01 pg/Nm 3 to 5000 pg/Nm3 . The
      mercury content may be measured by various conventional analytical techniques known in
      the art, including but not limited to cold vapor atomic absorption spectroscopy (CV-AAS),
      inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), X-ray fluorescence, or
      neutron activation. If the methods differ, ASTM D 6350 is used to measure the mercury
25    content.
               [029] The invention relates to an improved method and a system to remove heavy
     metals such as mercury present in natural gas feedstock, e.g., wet gas feed, in a gas
     processing plant. The term "gas processing plant" may be used interchangeably with "gas
     production facility." The mercury removal is carried out in the amine treating unit and / or
30   the gas dehydration unit of with the use of a complexing agent.
               [030] Gas Processing Plant: Figure 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating the various
     processes within a typical natural gas processing plant. Natural gas collected from gas wells
     is first processed in step 10 for the removal of liquid water and natural gas condensate,
     generating a gas feed which typically contains acid gases and water vapor, which is typically
                                                       5

       referred to as a sour gas. The initial water removal step can be done at the processing plant,
       or it can be at the collection point.
                [031]   In amine unit 30, the sour gas feed is purified with the removal of acid gases
       by absorption with an amine solution, generating a gas stream with reduced concentration of
   5   acid gases. The acid gases can be routed into a sulfur recovery unit 15 to recover elemental
       sulfur. The residual gas is processed in the tail gas treating unit 40.
                [032]   The sweetened gas having a reduced concentration of acid gases is routed to
       dehydrator 45, where a solution such as glycol is used to remove water vapor by absorption.
      In the mercury removal unit (MRU) 50, mercury is then removed by adsorption using
  10  activated carbon or other adsorbents known in the art. After the MRU, nitrogen is optionally
      removed in process step 60 in a cryogenic or adsorption process. The residue gas from the
      natural gas liquid (NGL) recovery process 20 is the final purified gas which can be pipelined
      to the end-user market, or optionally sent to a fractionation train 25 with distillation towers to
      generate various products such as propane, butane, C5+, etc. The various gases can also be
 15   sweetened in unit 26 with the removal of mercaptans, prior to being pipelined to the end-user
      market.
               [033] In terms of the average distribution of mercury in a typical gas processing
      plant as shown in Figure 1, it has been shown that out of 100% of mercury entering the plant,
      90% goes to the amine unit as sour gas feed. Of this 90%, proportionally 70% goes to the
 20   sour gas product stream (e.g., to the sulfur unit), and 30% stays in the sweetened gas stream.
      The sweetened gas stream goes to the gas dehydration unit, e.g., a glycol dehydrator, wherein
     proportionally 20% leaves with the vented moisture stream, and 80% leaves in the dry gas.
     If not removed with a MRU, mercury can appear in other process streams. It has been
     recommended that mercury be removed upstream of the process steps in a gas processing
25   plant.    The invention relates to the removal of heavy metals such as mercury from feed to a
     gas processing plant. In one embodiment as illustrated in Figure 1 with the mercury removal
     unit (MRU) being made optional (as dotted lines), mercury removal is carried out in the
     amine unit concurrent with the removal of acid gas from the sour gas feed with the addition
     of a complexing agent to the amine solution. In another embodiment, mercury removal is
30   carried out concurrently with the removal of water in a gas dehydration unit (in addition to or
     instead of the amine unit), with the addition of a complexing agent to the glycol solution.
     The complexing agent for the mercury removal can be generated on-site, e.g., manufacture of
     polysulfide solutions from elemental sulfur and sulfidic solutions, or the manufacture of
     sodium sulfide solutions from sodium carbonate and sulfur sources if available on site.
                                                       6

                  [034] Mercury Removal in Amine Unit:       In one embodiment for mercury removal
        in an amine treating unit, (lean) amine scrubbing solution is used to remove acid gases such
       as hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and carbon dioxide from the sour feed steam in an absorber,
       generating a rich amine stream. A sufficient amount of a complexing agent is added to the
   5   absorber for the removal of mercury concurrently with the removing of acid gases from the
       sour feed stream by the amine scrubbing solution, The complexing agent coverts at least a
       portion of the volatile mercury in the sour gas feed into a non-volatile form, extracted from
       the gas phase into the amine scrubbing solution.
                 [035] The amount of amine in the scrubbing solution feed to the absorber depends
 10    on the amount of acid gases in the natural gas to be treated (acid loadings), and based on the
       moles of H2 S (and / or CO 2) per mole of amine in solution.    In one embodiment, the ratio of
      absorbed acid gases to amine ranges from 0.3 to 0.9. Examples of amines suitable for use in
      the scrubbing solution include but are not limited to MEA, DEA, TEA, DIPA, MDEA, and
      mixtures thereof. The concentration of amines in the scrubbing solution varies depending on
 15   the amine type, and the acid gases for removal, e.g., H2S and CO 2 or removing CO 2 only, etc.
      The amine concentration (as wt. % of pure amine in the aqueous solution) ranges from 15
      65% in one embodiment, from 20-55% in a second embodiment, and from 25-45% in a third
      embodiment. In one embodiment, the scrubbing solution further comprises absorption
     promoters and other additives, e.g., piperazine.
20              [036]   The complexing agent is added to the lean amine feed to the absorber in one
     embodiment; as a separate feed stream to the absorber in a second embodiment; and as the
     same feed with the make-up water stream to the absorber in a third embodiment. The
     complexing agent is added in an amount of less than 5 vol. % of total scrubbing solution in
     the amine absorber in one embodiment; less than 3 vol. % in a second embodiment; less than
25   1 vol. % in a third embodiment; and less than 0.5 vol. % in a third embodiment.
               [037]   In one embodiment to prevent contamination of the amine in the amine
     absorber, the complexing agent contains little if any non-volatile alkali metals or alkali earth
     cations (none purposely added), e.g., with no sodium polysulfide or other sodium salts, as the
     sodium cation will accumulate in the amine recycle and degrade its performance.        In one
30   embodiment, the complexing agent is selected from the group of volatile cations, which can
     be removed in the regenerator. Examples of volatile cations include but are not limited to
     ammonium, amines and hydrogen cations, e.g., ammonium polysulfide, amine polysulfides,
     and sulfanes.
                                                      7

              [038]  Mercury Removal in Dehydrator Unit: In another embodiment, mercury
    removal is carried out in the dehydrator unit ("dehydrator") in addition to, or in place of
    mercury removal in the amine unit. The dehydrator can be tray columns or packed columns
     in one embodiment. In a dehydrator, a liquid desiccant dehydrator such as glycol serves to
  5  absorb water vapor from the gas stream. Glycol has a chemical affinity for water, upon
    contact with a stream of natural gas that contains water in a dehydrator (e.g., a contactor, an
    absorber, etc.), will serve to 'steal' the water out of the gas stream. Upon exiting the
    dehydrator, the glycol stream containing water (and mercury) is referred to as "rich glycol."
             [039]  The glycol solution typically involves either diethylene glycol (DEG) or
 1o triethylene glycol (TEG). In one embodiment, the glycol solution is employed in a
    concentration ranging from 99.1% up to 99.95% wt, in an amount sufficient to strip water at
    a rate of 0.5 - 6 scf of gas feed / gallon of glycol, for a dehydrated gas having water
    specifications of less than I lb. / MMSCF (Million Standard Cubic Feet).
             [040] The dehydrated gas having been stripped of most of its water content has a
15  concentration of less than 100 [tg/Nm 3 mercury in one embodiment; less than 10 ptg/Nm 3
    mercury in a second embodiment; less than 1 ptg/Nm 3 in a third embodiment; and less than
    0.1 pig/Nm 3 mercury in a fourth embodiment. The dehydrated gas is further processed, e.g.,
    nitrogen injection, NGL recovery, fractionation, etc.
             [041] In one embodiment, the complexing agent is added as part of the glycol
20  solution feed to the dehydrator. In another embodiment, it is added as a separate feed stream
    to the dehydrator. The complexing agent is added in an amount of less than 5 vol. % of total
    glycol solution to the dehydrator in one embodiment; less than 3 vol. % in a second
    embodiment; less than 1 vol. % in a third embodiment; and less than 0.5 vol. % in a third
    embodiment.
25           [042] Complexing Agent: "Complexing agent" refers to a material or compound
    that is capable of extracting volatile mercury in natural gas into the liquid phase, forming
    non-volatile mercury complexes. Examples of non-volatile mercury complexes include HgS
    and soluble mercury sulfur compounds (e.g. HgHS2~ or HgS2 2 ).
             [043] Examples of complexing agents include but are not limited to water-soluble
30  sulfur species, e.g., sulfides, hydrosulfides, and polysulfides, for extracting mercury in natural
    gas into the aqueous phase as precipitate (e.g., HgS) or soluble mercury sulfur compounds
    (e.g. HgS2 2-). Examples of water-soluble sulfur compounds include amine polysulfides,
    sodium hydrosulfide, potassium hydrosulfide, ammonium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide,
    potassium sulfide, calcium sulfide, magnesium sulfide, ammonium sulfide, sodium
                                                       8

          thiocarbamate, sodium dithiocarbamate, ammonium thiocarbamate, ammonium
          dithiocarbamate, and mixtures thereof. Aqueous source containing water-soluble sulfur
          species can be any of purchased or produced reagent solutions, sulfidic water, sulfidic waste
         water, kraft caustic liquor, kraft carbonate liquor, etc.
    5             [044] Other examples of complexing agents that can be used for the removal of
         mercury from the amine unit includes mercaptans, organic polysulfides (compounds of the
         general formula R-S-R' where x is greater than 1 and R and R' are alkyl or aryl
                                                                                            groups),
         sulfanes and combinations thereof.
                 [045] The amount of complexing agents to be added to the amine scrubbing solution
   10    and / or the glycol solution is determined by the effectiveness of complexing agent employed.
         The complexing agent to be added to the amine scrubbing solution can be the same or
         different from the complexing agent added to the glycol solution. The amount is at least
         equal to the amount of mercury in the gas on a molar basis (1:1), if not in an excess amount.
        In one embodiment, the molar ratio ranges from 5:1 to 10,000:1. In another embodiment,
  15    from 10:1 to 5000:1. In yet another embodiment, a molar ratio of sulfur additive to mercury
        ranging from 50:1 to 2500:1. In one embodiment with the use of a water-soluble sulfur
        compound as a scrubbing agent, a sufficient amount of the complexing agent is added to the
        amine scrubber for a sulfide concentration ranging from 0.05 M to 10M in one embodiment;
       from 0.1M to 5M in a second embodiment; from 0.3M to 4M in a third embodiment; and at
 20    least 0.5M in a fourth embodiment. If the mercury complexing agent is an organic
       polysulfide, sulfane or mercaptan, the moles of complexing agent are calculated on the same
       basis as the amount of sulfur present.
                [046] In one embodiment, the complexing agent is an inorganic polysulfide such as
       sodium polysulfide, for an extraction of mercury from the natural gas according to equation:
25     Hg (g) + Na 2 Sx (aq) + H2 0 -> HgS 2H- (aq) + Na 2 Sx-2 (aq) + OH- (aq), where (g) denotes the
       mercury in the gas phase, and (aq) denotes a species in water. The charges are balanced by
       other species. Solid HgS is not formed and the mercury remains in solution as an anionic
      species. In another embodiment, the complexing agent is a compound with a relatively high
      boiling point, e.g., not too volatile and above 100*C in one embodiment and above 125*C in
30    another embodiment. If not, the complexing agent would be lost in the stripping operation
      for the removal of adsorbed acid gas from the acid gas scrubbing solution. In yet another
      embodiment the complexing agent is sodium sulfide. Sodium sulfide and other complexing
      agents may promote the removal of mercury from gas streams containing high CO
                                                                                            2
      concentrations but low H2 S concentrations. In yet another embodiment the complexing agent
                                                        9

    is hydrogen sulfide (H2 S) or a combination of hydrogen sulfide and one or more of the above
    mentioned complexing agents.
            [047]   In one embodiment, the complexing agent is added to the absorber (scrubber)
    and / or the contactor (dehydrator), allowing the extraction of volatile mercury from the sour
 5  gas feed into the scrubbing solution of rich amine or the glycol solution, for a sweetened gas
    stream having a reduced concentration of acid gas as well as a mercury concentration of less
   than 50% of the mercury originally present in one embodiment (at least 50% mercury
   removal). In another embodiment, the sweetened gas contains less than 10% of the original
   mercury level (at least 90% removal). In a third embodiment, less than 5% of the original
10 level (at least 95% removal). The mercury content in the sweetened gas stream will depend
   on the mercury content of the feed and the percent removal.      The mercury content is reduced
   to below 100 tg/Nm 3 in one embodiment, less than 10 pg/Nm 3 in a second embodiment, less
   than I [g/Nm3 in a third embodiment, and less than 0.1 Pg/Nm3 in a fourth embodiment.
            [048] In one embodiment with the addition of complexing agent to the dehydrator,
is the glycol solution leaving the dehydrator unit contains at least 50% of the mercury initially
   present in the gas feed (to the dehydrator). The solution contains at least 75% of the mercury
   originally present in a second embodiment; and at least 90% in the third embodiment.
            [049]   Optional additives: In one embodiment in addition to the complexing agent, at
   least one of an anti-foam and / or a demulsifier is added to the glycol solution. As used
20 herein, the term anti-foam includes both anti-foam and defoamer materials, for preventing
   foam from happening and / or reducing the extent of foaming. Additionally, some anti-foam
   material may have both functions, e.g., reducing / mitigating foaming under certain
   conditions, and preventing foam from happening under other operating conditions. Anti
   foam agents can be selected from a wide range of commercially available products such as
25 silicones, e.g., polydimethyl siloxane (PDMS), polydiphenyl siloxane, fluorinated siloxane,
   etc., in an amount of 1 to 500 ppm.
            [050]   In one embodiment, at least a demulsifier is added in a concentration from 1 to
   5,000 ppm. In another embodiment, a demulsifier is added at a concentration from 10 to 500
   ppm. In one embodiment, the demulsifier is a commercially available demulsifier selected
30 from polyamines, polyamidoamines, polyimines, condensates of o-toluidine and
   formaldehyde, quaternary ammonium compounds and ionic surfactants. In another
   embodiment, the demulsifier is selected from the group of polyoxyethylene alkyl phenols,
   their sulphonates and sodium sulphonates thereof. In another embodiment, the demulsifier is
   a polynuclear, aromatic sulfonic acid additive.
                                                   10

                     [0511  In another embodiment, in addition to the complexing agent and optionally at
          least a demulsifier / anti-foam agent, an oxygen scavenger is preferably added to any of the
          glycol solution, the amine solution, and the absorbent. The oxygen scavenger may be
          present in an amount ranging from 0.001 to 1 wt. %, based on the weight of the glycol
    5     solution, lean amine, or absorbent.    As dissolved oxygen in the amine or glycol storage tank
         would lead to corrosion of iron surfaces, or react with the feed gas making heat stable salts
         which are difficult to separate in the regeneration step, the oxygen scavenger removes traces
         of dissolved oxygen present, minimizing corrosion impact.
                    [052] Examples of oxygen scavengers include bisulfites, metabisulfites, hydrazine
   to    salts, hydroxylamine salts, guanidine salts, N,N-Diethylhydroxylamine, oximes, dithionites,
         ascorbic acid, and isoascorbic acid. The anion salts of these oxygen scavengers can be
         chlorides, sulfates, and other suitable anions. The cations associated with the oxygen
         scavengers can be sodium, potassium or volatile cations as described for the complexing
         agents. Volatile cations are preferred when they are used in an amine unit.
  15               [053]   A compatible oxygen scavenger is one that does not react with the mercury
        complexing agent and reduce its effectiveness for mercury capture. Examples of oxygen
        scavengers that react with a complexing agent such as polysulfide include bisulfites and
        metabisulfite.      In one embodiment, the oxygen scavenger is selected for compatibility with
        the mercury complexing agent. Examples of compatible oxygen scavengers include:
 20     hydrazine salts, guanidine salts, N,N-Diethylhydroxylamine, oximes, dithionites, ascorbic
        acid, and isoascorbic acid.
                  [054] Recovery / Reeneration of Amine Solution: In one embodiment for the
        concurrent mercury removal from the absorber, the resultant rich amine containing non
       volatile mercury and acid gases from the absorber is routed into the regenerator. In the
25     regenerator ((a stripper with a reboiler), a "lean" amine containing non-volatile mercury is
       regenerated for recycle / subsequent reuse in the absorber to remove acid gases. With the
       regeneration of the lean amine for use in the absorber unit, mercury will gradually build up
       over time in the system, along with other known solid and ionic materials which accumulate
       in acid gas scrubbing solutions and are commonly known as "heat stable salts" or HSS.
30               [055] In one embodiment, the regenerator overhead gas undergoes further
      processing in a sulfur unit, e.g., to make sulfuric acid from the acid gas H2 S, or combusted for
      subsequent venting. Removal of the mercury in the amine absorber gives an acid gas product
      with reduced mercury. This enables the production of sulfuric acid, or elemental sulfur, with
      reduced mercury. In another embodiment, the regenerator overhead gas is first routed
                                                        11

          through a condenser set up for the removal of water by condensation, then subsequently sent
         to a mercury removal unit (MRU) for the removal of mercury using processes and equipment
         known in the art.
                   [056] In one embodiment, a portion of the mercury-containing amine adsorbent can
    5    be continuously or intermittently purged from the amine unit / removed from the scrubber,
         and replaced with fresh amine. In yet another embodiment, other remediation actions
         include: a) the contaminated amine solution is purged (bled) on a continuous or intermittent
         basis and replaced with fresh amine; b) the entire inventory of amine is replaced; and c)
        reclaiming the solution.     Reclaiming the solution to remove non-volatile mercury as
  10    removed from the natural gas feed to the amine unit can be done by a variety of processes and
        systems known in the art for the removal of heat stable salts, including but not limited to
        filtration, centrifugation, precipitation, reduction to elemental mercury followed stripping,
        distillation, adsorption, ion exchange, electrodialysis, or transfer to a hydrocarbon steam and
        separation, and combinations thereof.
 15               [057]  Recovery / Regeneration of Glycol Solution: In one embodiment after the
        concurrent removal of water and mercury in the dehydrator, the rich glycol bearing non
       volatile mercury and water stripped from the natural gas, is put through a specialized boiler
        designed to vaporize only the water out of the solution. While water has a boiling point of
       212'F, glycol does not boil until 400 0F. This boiling point differential makes it relatively
 20    easy to remove water from the rich glycol, allowing it be reused in the dehydration process.
       Depending on the temperature of the distillation, e.g., below than 150C, in one embodiment,
       mercury remains in the rich glycol bottom, with water going overhead in the glycol
       regenerator. In another embodiment with the distillation at a lower temperature, e.g., above
       150'C, mercury can be removed from the bottom stream by techniques known in the art such
25     as ion-exchange or sub-atmospheric pressure distillation.
                 [058]  In another embodiment, residual mercury in the rich glycol can be removed by
       other processes known in the art, including but are not limited to filtration, centrifugation,
      precipitation, reduction to elemental mercury followed stripping, distillation, adsorption, ion
      exchange, or transfer to a hydrocarbon steam and separation, and combinations.
30    Alternatively a portion of the mercury-containing rich glycol stream can be purged from the
      system. In one embodiment, the non-volatile mercury complexes can be removed from the
      regenerated / recycled rich glycol with the use of a mercury absorber containing a bed of
      sulphided absorbent as disclosed in US Patent No. 7435338, the relevant disclosure is
      incorporated herein by reference.
                                                        12

             [059] Reference will be made to Figure 2 of a diagram schematically illustrating an
    embodiment of a system and process for removing mercury from natural gas / flue gas (sour
    gas feed) in an amine unit.
            [060]   In the Figure 2, (lean) amine scrubbing solution 5 is used to remove acid gases
 5  from a sour gas feed 1 in absorber 10 generating a rich amine stream. As shown mercury
    complexing agent 6 is added to the lean scrubbing solution feed to the scrubber.      Although
    not shown, mercury complexing agent can also be provided as any of a separate feed stream,
   part of the make-up water stream to the scrubber, or combinations thereof. In one
    embodiment (not shown), different complexing agents can be added to the amine unit as
10  different feed streams. The mercury complexing agent(s) can be added continuously or
    intermittently. Sweetened gas stream 4 with reduced concentration of acid gas and mercury
    is removed from the scrubber for subsequent treatment with a glycol dehydrator (not shown).
   The rich amine solution 31 undergoes steam stripping in stripper 30 for the removal of weak
   acids such as H2S and CO 2 as overhead stream 34, wherein the stripping steam is generated
15 from the amine solution in a reboiler 40 that takes its feed 32 from the regenerator tower
   below the steam stripping section.
            [061] In one embodiment, at least a portion of non-volatile mercury in the rich
   amine is also released from the amine solution in stripper 30 and/or reboiler 40 as volatile
   mercury that leaves the process with overhead stream 34. In one embodiment (not shown),
20 the overhead stream is directed to a mercury removal unit, e.g., a mercury removal adsorbent
   bed, for the mercury to be removed by adsorption.
            [062]    Condensing water from the effluent water / acid gas stream from the top of
   the regenerator helps minimize water usage. The steam stripping is not complete so residual
   H2 S and CO2 remain in the lean amine solution, along with some non-volatile mercury.
25 Many of the acids that are not removed by steam stripping are called Heat Stable Salts (HSS)
   or, unless otherwise neutralized, Heat Stable Amine Salts (HSAS). Examples include but are
   not limited to formate, acetate, glycolate, propionate, oxalate, chloride, sulfate, thiosulfate,
   and thiocyanate. In one embodiment, a portion of the HSS is removed with at least a portion
   of the non-volatile mercury in the bleed stream 41.
30          [063]   EXAMPLES:        The following illustrative examples are intended to be non
   limiting.
            [064] Example 1: The example was to investigate the retention of mercury in
   absorbents, a lean amine from a refinery acid gas scrubber was sampled and analyzed, and
   found to contain 250 ppb mercury. The lean amine was stripped with 300 cc/min nitrogen at
                                                    13

          room temperature for one hour. It was found that the mercury content of the lean amine was
          not changed. The lean amine was centrifuged at 1500 RPM for 10 minutes. The mercury
          content of the supernatant was analyzed and found to be unchanged.
                    [065] In the next step, the lean amine containing mercury was filtered through a 0.2
    5     p filter. The mercury content of the supernatant was analyzed and found to be unchanged. It
         is concluded that the mercury which is present in the lean amine is a non-volatile mercury
         species, and is not present in the form of large particles. Since this mercury species was
         found in the lean amine from the commercial unit, it was not decomposed to solids or volatile
         elemental mercury by the temperatures, pressures and residence times in the amine
  10     regeneration process.
                   [066] Example 2: In this example, a sample of volatile Hg" was dissolved in white
         oil. This material is used to study the conversion of volatile mercury (Hg0) into non-volatile
         mercury (HgS and other forms). First, five grams of elemental mercury Hg0 was placed in an
        impinger at 100 0 C and 0.625 SCF/min of nitrogen gas was passed over through the impinger
 15     to form an Hg-saturated nitrogen gas stream. This gas stream was then bubbled through 3123
        pounds of Superla@ white oil held at 60-70'C in an agitated vessel. The operation continued
        for 55 hours until the mercury level in the white oil reached 500 ppbw by a LumexTM
        analyzer. The simulated material was drummed and stored.
                  [067] Example 3: In this example, volatile mercury was shown to be absorbed by an
 20     aqueous solution of sodium polysulfide. A gas containing volatile mercury was prepared by
       sparging nitrogen through the white oil of Example 2 and this gas was bubbled through a 10
       wt% solution of sodium polysulfide at room temperature. Mercury was transferred from the
       white oil to the polysulfide solution. The mercury content of the stripped oil was reduced
       below the limit of detection, while > 70% of the mercury initially in the oil was measured in
25     the polysulfide solution. The extent of mercury capture in this bubbler experiment was not
       optimized, but the test showed the ability of complexing agents such as sodium polysulfide to
      capture mercury from a gas stream in a non-volatile form that is soluble in the polysulfide
      solution.
                 [068] Examples 4 - 16: To study the conversion of volatile mercury to non-volatile
30    mercury, 20 ml of the material from Example 2 was placed in a series of vials. The mercury
      analysis of the samples averaged 359 ppbw, indicating some loss of mercury over the years
      that the sample was stored.
                 [069] A number of complexing agents were added to the vials and the initial
      mercury content was measured by LumexTM mercury analyzer (detection limit of - 50 ppbw).
                                                        14

           A nylon stopper equipped with a small vent hole was place on top of each vial.
                                                                                                The vials
           were then heated in an oil bath overnight. In the morning each vial is shaken. Then each vial
          was purged with N 2 for one hour at 90'C with a gas flow to produce a steady
                                                                                              bubbling (about
          300 ml/hr). The final mercury content in each vial was then measured.
                                                                                       The comparison of
     5    the initial and final mercury contents were used to judge the conversion
                                                                                       of volatile elemental
          mercury into a non-volatile form (% Hg fixed). Results are summarized
                                                                                        in Table 1. These
          complexing agents convert volatile mercury to a non-volatile form
                                                                                 that would be removed
          from the treated gas when incorporated in an amine scrubber.
                  [070]    Table 1
           Example      Agent                    Amount      Temp.     Time,         Final Hg,         % Hg
                                                   added        C       Hrs            ppbw            Fixed
           4            None                          0        90        24               0               0
           5            Di-Phenyl disulfide         0.1 g      90        24              20               6
           6            Di-n-propy disufide       0.1 ml       90       24               0                0
           7            Di-tert-nonyl             0.1 ml       90       24               2                1
                       polysulfide
          8             1-Hexyl mercaptan         0.1 ml      90        24              243              68
          9            Thiophene                  0.1 ml      90        24               0               0
          10           None                           0       90        72               0               0
          11           Di-Phenyl disulfide         0.1 g      90        72              48               13
          12           Di-n-propyl disufide       0.1 ml      90        72
          13           Di-tert-nonyl                                                     0               0
                                                  0.1 ml      90        72               3               1
                       polysulfide
          14           1-Hexyl mercaptan          0.1 ml      90        72
          15           Thiophene                                                       240              67
                                                 0.1 ml       90       72               23               7
          16          1-Hexyl mercaptan          0.1 ml       20       24               10               3
  10
                [071]     Example 17:    In a three-neck flask with a Teflon stirrer (as glass reactor) was
        placed a 200 ml of solution of stannous chloride and sulfuric acid, for a
                                                                                     concentration of 10%
        stannous chloride and 5% sulfuric acid. When mercury vapors were to be generated,
                                                                                                     0.5 cc
        of a 209.8 ppm Hg solution of mercuric chloride in water was injected
                                                                                   into the reactor via a
 15     septum. The stannous chloride rapidly reduced the mercury to elemental
                                                                                      mercury. In the
       glass reactor was a line carrying 300 cc/min of nitrogen which bubbled in
                                                                                       the reducing acidic
       stannous chloride solution. This was used to sweep the evolved elemental
                                                                                        mercury to the
       downstream absorbers.
               [072] The glass reactor was connected to two absorbers in series, each of which
20     contained 200 ml of solution. The absorbers were equipped with a glass
                                                                                     frit to produce small
       bubbles. The bubbles contacted the absorbing solution for about one second.
                                                                                            The first
       absorber contained the test solution. The second contained 3% sodium polysulfide
                                                                                                 in water.
                                                          15

           The 3% sodium polysulfide solution was prepared by dilution of a 30% solution of sodium
           polysulfide. This second absorber was a scrubber to remove the last traces of mercury from
           the nitrogen to provide mercury mass closures. Analysis of the exit gas from the second
          absorber by both Lumex and Jerome techniques found no detectable mercury.
    5               [073] Samples of the liquids in the reactor and two absorbers and gas leaving
                                                                                                   the
          reactor and leaving the two absorbers were drawn at periodic intervals over a ninety-minute
          period and analyzed for mercury by Lumex. Mercury balances over 57 runs average
                                                                                                  98.6%.
          The reaction of the mercury chloride in the three neck flask is rapid, and the elemental
         mercury was stripped rapidly as well. After a typical ninety-minute period the conversion
  10     and displacement of mercury in the reactor averaged 94%.
                   [074] The efficiency of the test solutions was calculated by comparing the amount
                                                                                                         of
         mercury taken up in the first reactor absorber to the amount taken up in both absorbers.
                                                                                                    If no
         mercury was taken up in the first reactor with the test solution, the efficiency was zero
         percent. If all the mercury was taken up in the first reactor, the efficiency was 100%.
                                                                                                   At the
 15      end of the experiments no evidence of precipitated HgS was observed in the absorbers.
                                                                                                    The
        solutions were clear.
                  [075] Examples 18 - 21: The experiments were to evaluate the Hg uptake in various
        solutions without the complexing agent according to the procedures in Example 17. The
        results are shown in Table 2. A 56% MEG solution was prepared by mixing 56 wt. %
20      monoethylene glycol (MEG) in DI water. MEG solutions are typically used to prevent
                                                                                                   the
       formation of hydrates in gas pipelines that also contain water. A 45% MDEA solution was
       prepared by mixing 45 percent Methyl diethanolamine in DI water. MDEA solutions
                                                                                                 are
       typically used in acid gas scrubbers which remove hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide and other
       acidic gases from natural gas. 100% TEG was pure triethylene glycol. TEG is used to
25     dehydrate gases.
                 [076]   Table 2
                                  Example           Solvent        Efficiency %
                                     18            DI Water                       0
                                     19           56% MEG                         0
                                     20          45% MDEA                         0
                                     21           100% TEG                        0
                [077] These results show that insignificant amounts of mercury were absorbed (0%
      efficiency) and retained in the test solutions in the absence of mercury capture agents.
                                                       16

            [078]   Examples 22-38: These experiments are to evaluate sodium polysulfide as
   complexing agent in the removal of mercury. Sodium polysulfide is highly effective in
   capturing elemental mercury vapors at 1 second of contact, even when the sulfur to mercury
   stoichiometric ratio is near 2.  Sodium polysulfide was added in varying amounts to the four
 5 solvents as listed and tested according to the procedure of example 17.      Results are shown in
   Table 3.
           [079] Table 3
         Example      Solvent              ppm Na2 Sx       S/Hg Molar ratio     Efficiency %
              22      100% TEG                        36                0.429             37.99
              23      100% TEG                       179                2.143             88.93
              24      100% TEG                      357                 4.286             78.04
              25      100% TEG                    1,786               21.429              83.13
              26      100% TEG                    3,571               42.858              81.63
              27      45% MDEA                      357                 4.286             38.01
             28       45% MDEA                    1,786               21.429              76.86
             29       45% MDEA                    3,571               42.858              79.48
              30      56% MEG                         36                0.214             17.74
              31      56% MEG                        179                1.071             30.15
             32       56% MEG                       357                 2.143             31.15
             33       56% MEG                       357                4.286              46.92
             34       56% MEG                       893               10.714              67.91
             35       56% MEG                     3,571               42.858              82.49
             36       DI Water                      357                4.286              25.81
             37       DI Water                      893               10.714              33.76
             38       DI Water                    3,571               42.858              60.31
           [080]    Examples 39-62: These experiments are to evaluate ammonium polysulfide
1o as complexing agent in the removal of mercury. Ammonium polysulfide and sodium
   polysulfide are both used in refineries to control cyanides and to moderate corrosion. If
   ammonium polysulfide is used then the sodium cation can be avoided, such as in amine
   absorbers. Using the transient method of example 17, the efficiency of ammonium
   polysulfide in various solvents was explored and results are shown in Table 4.
15         [081] Table4
     Example      Solvent        Temperature          ppm        S/Hg Molar         Efficiency
                                                  (NH4)2Sx           ratio              %
        39        100% TEG          Room T              2,429            32.424            86.18
        40        100% TEG          Room T                243              3.242           65.45
        41        45% MDEA          Room T              2,429            33.510           42.09
        42        45% MDEA          Room T                243              3.351           31.97
        43        56% MEG           Room T              2,429            33.510           68.86
        44        56% MEG           Room T                243              3.351          47.58
        45        DI Water          Room T              2,429            33.510            70.49
        46        DI Water          Room T                243              3.351           39.05
                                                   17

                47        DI Water           70 0C               2,429           33.510           68.55]
                48        DI Water           700 C                 243             3.351          55.44
                   [082]   Samples of the solution in the first absorber were filtered through a 0.45p
         filter and analyzed for mercury. Within the limits of the Lumex technique there was no
         significant change in the mercury content. This demonstrated that the mercury was absorbed
     5   as a solution and was not forming measurable amounts of HgS precipitate (e.g., less than 50
         ppb difference in the concentration of the original and the filtered solutions).
                  [083] Examples 49 - 56: The experiments are to evaluate the removal of aqueous
         Hg anions by ion exchange and adsorption, showing that anion mercury can be removed by
         anion exchange resins or adsorbents.      The 10 ml of a solution containing anionic mercury
   10    were contacted with approximately 0.1 grams of various adsorbents to study the removal of
         mercury. The solution was a 56% MEG solution in water with 2439 ppm ammonium
        polysulfide and 267 ppb mercury. The adsorbents were Darco Carbon (Aldrich 242276),
        Activated Carbon (Aldrich C2889), and various Siemen's anion exchange resins: A-2440H,
        A-4640H, A-6740H, A-7140H, and A-284C Resins. The solutions and the solid
  15    adsorbents were mixed overnight at room temperature on a rotating wheel, and the mercury
        content of the aqueous solution was determined in the morning along with the mercury
        content of the adsorbent. The results are shown in Table 5:
                 [084] Table 5
                                                                                           [0001]    %
         Exampl                              Solution     Adorbent                           Removed
              e            Adsorbent         Hg, ppb       Hg, ppb
             49              None              299              -                        0.00
             50          Darco Carbon          1.97          11,600                    99.34
             51           Act. Carbon           129            -                       56.86
            52         A-2440H Resin           0.53         27,150                     99.82
            53         A-4640H Resin           0,43         36,200                     99.86
            54         A-6740H Resin           0.89         28,900                     99.70
            55         A-7140H Resin           156          15,900                     47.83
            56           A-284C Resin          0.3          21,400                     99.90
20              [085] The efficiency of various oxygen scavengers was evaluated by use of the
       procedure described in example 17. In each of the following examples, 243 ppm of
       ammonium polysulfide (APS) was dissolved in a 56% solution of monoethylene glycol in
       deionized water. Tests were performed at room temperature and the results are summarized
       in Table 6.
25     Table 6
                                                         18

                            Example     Composition                               Result
                                57      243 ppm APS Only                          44.16
                               58       APS + Hydroxylamine HCl                    10.16
                               59      APS + sodium bisulfite                      11.91
                               60       APS + sodium dithionite                   38.99
                               61      APS + Hydrazine sulfate                    52.24
                               62      APS   + N,N Diethylhydroxylamine           63.50
                               63      APS   + Guanidine HCl                      68.74
                               64      APS   + Acetaldehyde Oxime                 79.18
                               65      APS   + D-(-)-Isoascorbic Acid             81.61
        Example 57 contained ammonium polysulfide only and is a reference. Examples 58 and 59
        show that hydroxylamine and sodium bisulfite suppress the ability of ammonium polysulfide
        to capture mercury. In contrast examples 60 to 65 show that other oxygen scavengers do not
   5    suppress the ability of polysulfides to capture mercury and some increase its ability. These
        are examples of compatible oxygen scavengers.
                [086]  For the purposes of this specification and appended claims, unless otherwise
       indicated, all numbers expressing quantities, percentages or proportions, and other numerical
  10   values used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all
       instances by the term "about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical
       parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations
      that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present
       invention. It is noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular
 15   forms "a," "an," and "the," include plural references unless expressly and unequivocally
      limited to one referent.
               [087]   As used herein, the term "include" and its grammatical variants are intended to
      be non-limiting, such that recitation of items in a list is not to the exclusion of other like items
      that can be substituted or added to the listed items. The terms "comprises" and/or
20    "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features,
     integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or
     addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components,
     and/or groups thereof. Unless otherwise defined, all terms, including technical and scientific
     terms used in the description, have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of
25   ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
                                                       19

              [088]  This written description uses examples to disclose the invention, including the
     best mode, and also to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention.
     The patentable scope is defined by the claims, and can include other examples that occur to
     those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims
  5  if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if
    they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal
    languages of the claims. All citations referred herein are expressly incorporated herein by
    reference.
             [089]   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
10  suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
    or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded
                                                                                     as relevant,
    and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                                    20

                     CLAIMS
                     1.     A method for removing a trace amount of mercury in a natural gas feed,
           comprising:
                    providing a gas feed containing a first concentration of volatile mercury and acid
     5     gases;
                    contacting the gas feed in an absorber with an absorption solution comprising lean
          amine and a first complexing agent comprising volatile cations selected from ammonium
          polysulfide, amine polysulfides, and sulfanes, wherein the absorption solution concurrently
          removes mercury and non-volatile mercury and acid gases from the gas feed;
   10               generating a rich amine solution containing acid gases and at least 50% of the volatile
          mercury in the gas feed as non-volatile mercury and a treated gas stream with a second
          concentration of acid gases and mercury.
                   2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
  15               contacting the treated gas stream with a glycol solution in a dehydrator, wherein the
         glycol solution contains a second complexing agent for the glycol solution to concurrently
         remove mercury and water vapor from the treated gas stream,
                   generating a rich glycol containing non-volatile mercury and a dehydrated gas stream
         with a reduced concentration of water and a third concentration of mercury, wherein the third
 20      concentration of mercury is less than 50% of the second concentration of mercury.
                  3.      The method of claim 2, further comprising:
                  removing the non-volatile mercury from the rich glycol by at least one of filtration,
        centrifugation, precipitation, stripping, distillation, adsorption, ion exchange, electrodialysis,
25      a hydrocarbon steam and separation step, and combinations thereof,
                  generating a recycled glycol stream having a reduced concentration of mercury of less
        than 50% of the non-volatile mercury in the rich glycol.
                 4.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lean amine in the
30     absorption solution is selected from monoethanolamine (MEA), diethanolamine (DEA),
       methyldiethanolamine (MDEA), aminoethoxyethanol(diglycoamine) (DGA), triethanolamine
       (TEA), diisopropylamine (DIPA) and mixtures thereof.
                                                         21

                     5.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the absorption
           solution comprising lean amine has a concentration of amine ranging from
                                                                                       15 to 65 wt. %.
                    6.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the volatile cation
                                                                                                        is
     5     ammonium polysulfide.
                    7.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least 90% of
          volatile mercury is removed from the gas feed in the absorption solution.
   10               8.    The method of claim 7, wherein at least 95% of volatile mercury is removed
          from the gas feed in the absorption solution.
                   9.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the treated gas stream
         contains less than 100 pg/Nm 3 mercury.
  15
                   10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the treated gas stream contains less
                                                                                              than 10
         pg/Nm3 mercury.
                  11.    The method of claim 10, wherein the treated gas stream contains less than
                                                                                                    1
 20     pg/Nm3     mercury.
                  12.    The method of claim 11, wherein the treated gas stream contains less than
                                                                                                    0.1
        pg/Nm3 mercury.
25               13.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the complexing
                                                                                                  agent
       is added in an amount of less than 5 vol. % of the absorption solution to
                                                                                  the absorber.
                 14.    The method of claim 13, wherein the complexing agent is added in an amount
       of less than 1 vol. % of the absorption solution to the absorber.
 0
                15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the complexing agent is added in an amount
       of less than 0.5 vol. % of the absorption solution to the absorber.
                16.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
                                                      22

              heating the rich amine solution containing acid gases and non-volatile mercury in a
     solvent regeneration process employing at least a stripper and a reboiler, and
              generating a lean amine containing non-volatile mercury for recycle in an absorber to
     remove acid gases.
  5
              17.    The method of claim 16, further comprising:
             treating the lean amine to remove the non-volatile mercury by any of filtration,
     centrifugation, precipitation, reduction to elemental mercury followed stripping, distillation,
     adsorption, ion exchange, electrodialysis, transfer to a hydrocarbon steam and separation, and
 10  combinations thereof.
              18.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the glycol solution
    further comprises at least one of an anti-foam, a demulsifier, a compatible oxygen scavenger,
    and mixtures thereof.
15
             19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the demulsifier is selected from polyamines,
    polyamidoamines, polyimines, condensates of o-toluidine and formaldehyde, quaternary
    ammonium compounds, ionic surfactants, polyoxyethylene alkyl phenols, aromatic sulfonic
    acid additive, and mixtures thereof.
20
             20.     The method of claim 18 or 19, wherein the oxygen scavenger is selected from
    the group of hydrazine salts, guanidine salts, N,N-Diethylhydroxylamine, oximes, dithionites,
    ascorbic acid, and isoascorbic acid, and mixtures thereof.
25           21.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the anti-foam agent is a
    silicone material.
             22.     A method for removing a trace amount of mercury in a gas feed, comprising:
            providing a gas feed containing a first concentration of volatile mercury and acid
30  gases; and
            contacting the gas feed in an absorber with an absorption solution comprising lean
    amine and a complexing agent, generating a treated gas stream with a reduced concentration
    of acid gases and mercury, wherein the absorption solution concurrently removes mercury
    and acid gases from the gas feed for a rich amine solution containing mercury and acid gases,
                                                    23

  wherein the complexing agent is selected from ammonium polysulfide, amine polysulfides,
  calcium polysulfide, sulfanes, and mixtures thereof;
         heating the rich amine solution containing acid gases and mercury in a solvent
  regeneration process employing at least a stripper and a reboiler, wherein at least a portion of
5 the mercury is removed from the rich amine with acid gases as an overhead stream; and
         treating the overhead stream containing mercury by adsorption in a mercury removal
  adsorbent bed.
                                                24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
