                                             Abstract
        Described herein are inhibitors of FGFR, pharmaceutical compositions including such
compounds, and methods of using such compounds and compositions to inhibit the activity of
tyrosine kinases.
                                                1

            INHIBITORS OF THE FIBROBLAST GROWTH FACTOR RECEPTOR
                                           Claim of Priority
         This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013290074,
filed on 11 July 2013, and is related to International Patent Application
No. PCT/US2013/050106, filed on 11 July 2013 and claims priority from U.S.S.N. 61/670,379,
filed July 11, 2012 and U.S.S.N. 61/746,666, filed on 28 December 2012, each of which is
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                        Field of the Invention
         Described herein are compounds, methods of making such compounds, pharmaceutical
compositions, and methods of using such compounds and compositions to inhibit the activity of
tyrosine kinases.
                                             Background
         Fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR-4) is a protein that in humans is encoded by
the FGFR-4 gene. This protein is a member of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family,
where amino acid sequence was highly conserved between members throughout evolution.
FGFR family members 1-4 differ from one another in their ligand affinities and tissue
distribution. A full-length representative protein consists of an extracellular region composed
of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single hydrophobic membrane-spanning segment and
a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain. The extracellular portion of the protein interacts with
fibroblast growth factors, setting in motion a cascade of downstream signals, ultimately
influencing mitogenesis and differentiation. The genomic organization of the FGFR-4 gene
encompasses 18 exons. Although alternative splicing has been observed, there is no evidence
that the C-terminal half of the IgIl domain of this protein varies between three alternate forms,
as indicated for FGFR 1-3.
Ectopic mineralization, characterized by inappropriate calcium-phosphorus deposition in soft
tissue, has been observed in rats treated with an FGFR-1 inhibitor (Brown, AP et al. (2005),
Toxicol. Pathol., p. 449-455). This suggests that selective inhibition of FGFR-4 without
inhibition of other isoforms of FGFR, including FGFR- 1, may be desirable in order to avoid
certain toxicities. FGFR-4 preferentially binds fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF 19) and has
                                                    1

recently been associated with the progression of certain sarcomas, renal cell cancer, breast
cancer, and liver cancer.
Summary of the Invention
         Described herein are inhibitors of FGFR-4. Further described herein are pharmaceutical
formulations that include an inhibitor of FGFR-4.
         In one aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula 1, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                        (R2%,
                                                  N
                                            HN          X  Y
                                        H
                             Warhead    N
                                             A
                                                      1
                                                    (R  m
                                               Formula I
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; ring
A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic or alicyclic group; X is CH or N; Y is CH or
N-R4 where R4 is H or C1_ alkyl; L is -[C(R 5)(R 6)]q-, where each of R and R is, independently,
H or C 1 _ alkyl; and q is 0-4; each of R -R3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted
C 1 _ alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo, amino, amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 _ alkyl, optionally
substituted C1_ heterocyclyl; m is 0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2. In some embodiments, ring A is
phenyl, e.g., a 1,2-disubstituted phenyl; R 2 is halo or methoxy; n is 2 or 4; X is N; R 1 is methyl;
and/or m is 1.
         In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula II, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                     2

                                                                    (R2)
                                 Warhead N   N         Y     O
                                               Formula II
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; W
is C or N; Z is CH or N; Y is CH or N-R 4 where R 4 is H or C 1 _ alkyl; R1 is H or C 1 _ alkyl; each
of R 2 and R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1_ alkoxy, hydroxy, amino,
amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1_ alkyl, optionally substituted
C 1 _ heterocyclyl; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2. In some embodiments, R 2 is halo or methoxy; n is 2 or
4; Y is N-R4 , where R4 is methyl; and/or R1 is methyl.
         In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula III, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                      (R2)
                                             N
                                Warhead
                                         NN            N
                                         R
                                               Formula III
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; R is
H or optionally substituted C 1 _ alkyl, including dialkylaminoalkyl; each of R2 and R3 is,
independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1 _ alkoxy, hydroxy, amino, amido,
optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1_ alkyl, optionally substituted C16
heterocyclyl; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2. In some embodiments, R 2 is halo or methoxy; n is 2 or 4. In
some embodiments; R 1 is methyl; in other embodiments, R 1 is diethylaminobutyl.
         In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula IV, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                   3

                                                            ____(R2)n
                                             N
                                Warhead
                                               Formula IV
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; R, is
H or optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl; each of R2 and R3 is, independently, halo, cyano,
optionally substituted C1_6 alkoxy, hydroxy, amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea,
optionally substituted C 1_6 alkyl, optionally substituted C 1_6 heterocyclyl; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
In some embodiments, R 2 is halo or methoxy; n is 2 or 4; and/or R1 is methyl.
        In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula V, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                  H
                                                                     Warhead
                                                                  NH
                                                                      R
                                                  ( RN2)(
                                                                  NJ
                                               N     N
                                (R)m
                                               Formula V
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; each
of R -R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1_6 alkoxy, hydroxy, amino,
amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl, optionally substituted
C1_6 heterocyclyl; optionally substituted C1_6 heterocyclylamido; m is 0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
        In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula VI, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                    4

                                       Warhead
                                                 NH
                                                  /N
                                                        N
                                                            /'  j.(R).
                                                    Formula VI
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; L is
                              5
aryl, heteroaryl, or -[C(R      )(R 6)]q-, where each of R 5 and R6 is, independently, H or C 1_6 alkyl;
and q is 0-4; each of R 1 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1_6 alkoxy,
hydroxy, oxo, amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1_6 alkyl,
optionally substituted C1_6 heterocyclyl; and m is 0-3. In some embodiments, L is alkylene; in
other embodiments, L is phenyl. In some embodiments, R 1 is trifluoroethylurea.
        In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula VII, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                             1
                                               )m2) N
                                          (R
                                                        N
                                                        H
                                                               HN
                                                                      Warhead
                                                   Formula VII
where Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; each
of R and R 2 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1_6 alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo,
amino, amido, optionally substituted alkylsulfonamido, optionally substituted alkyl urea,
optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1_6 heterocyclyl; m is 0-3; and n is 0-4.
        In another aspect, the invention features a compound of Formula VIII, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                        5

                                                                           (R2)
                                                   NZW             __(R),
                                              HN       X       Y
                                        H
                             Warhead
                                        N      A
                                                      1
                                                    (R )m
                                               Formula VIII
wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile; ring
A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic or alicyclic group; W is C or N, each of X
and Z is, independently, CH or N; Y is CH or N-R4 where R4 is H or C 1 _ alkyl; L is
[C(R 5)(R 6)]q-, where each of R5 and R6 is, independently, H or C 1 _ alkyl; and q is 0-4; each of R
R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1_ alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo, amino,
amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1_ alkyl, optionally substituted C1_ heterocyclyl; m is
0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2. In some embodiments, ring A is phenyl; R 2 is halo or methoxy; n is 2
or 4; X is N; R1 is methyl; and/or m is 1.
          In other aspects, the compound is a compound of Formula IX, or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                   1
                                                                 (R )m
                               (R2.
                                                         \ -NH        HN-Warhead
                                                Formula IX
Wherein Warhead is a moiety that is capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
each of R and R 2 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1_ alkoxy, hydroxy,
oxo, amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1_ alkyl, optionally
substituted heterocyclyl; m is 0-3; and n is 0-4.
          In other aspects, the invention features a compound of Formula X, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                                     6

                                                                        (R3 )"
                                     N
                              R N        N         N       NH
                                                       0        NH
                                              Formula X
wherein R 1 is a warhead moiety; R 2 is C 1_6 alkyl, which is optionally substituted with halo,
amino, hydroxy, or cyano; each R 3 is, independently, halo, amino, cyano, C 1_6 alkyl, or C1_6
alkoxy, and n is 2-5; and R4 is optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl.
         In the compounds disclosed herein, a warhead is a moiety that is reactive with a
nucleophile, for example, capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile. Examples of
warheads include, without limitation, alkyl halides, alkyl sulfonates, heteroaryl halides, epoxides,
haloacetamides, maleimides, sulfonate esters, alpha-beta unsaturated ketones, alpha-beta
unsaturated esters, vinyl sulfones, propargyl amides, acrylamides. In some of these instances,
e.g., acrylamide and propargyl amide, the N of the warhead is the adjacent N in the formulae
shown above. Structures of exemplary warheads are shown below:
     R'      0                                                                            0
Rb
                        X
                                                                               Ra
                     0              0
                         CN             CF3
wherein X is a leaving group such as halo, or an activated hydroxyl moiety (e.g., triflate); and
each of Ra, Rb, and R' is, independently, H, substituted or unsubstituted C 14 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C14 cycloalkyl, or cyano.
         In the formulae shown above, the warheads are typically attached to a N atom on the
inhibitor. In other embodiments, the warhead can alternatively be attached to an atom other than
N. Examples of exemplary warheads include, without limitation,
                                                   7

           0                        0                     0                       0
                                                                    N                       N
                                                                       S
                                      N NIN              Halo                Halo
                                          0                              SS
                     ~jj-
                        a~o                   Halo     \      -Halo                   Hal
               \   N
                   N      -Hl               N                               0
                      Q\1       N                                     NL
  Other examples of warheads can be found, e.g., in WO 2010/028236 and WO 2011/034907.
          In certain embodiments, the FGFR-4 inhibitors of the invention inhibit FGFR-4 activity
>more potently    than they inhibit FGFR- 1 activity. For example, the FGFR-4 inhibitors of the
  invention can inhibit FGFR-4 activity at least 10 times, at least 50 times, at least 100 times, at
  least 200 times, or at least 500 times more potently than they inhibit FGFR- 1 activity.
          In one aspect, selectivity is measured by comparing the inhibition of FGFR- 1 and FGFR
  4 caused by the compound of this invention in the same type of assay. In one embodiment, the
->assays used to measure inhibition of FGFR-1 and FGFR-4 are any of the assays described herein.
                                                     8

Typically, inhibition is expressed as IC5 0 (the concentration of inhibitor at which 50% of the
activity of the enzyme is inhibited) and thus fold-selectivity is measured by the equation:
(IC5 0 FGFR-1)/ (IC50 FGFR-4). The same measurements and calculations can be used to
measure selectivity over FGFR-2 and FGFR-3 as well.
         Any other assays of FGFR activity may be utilized to determine the relative inhibition of
FGFR-land FGFR-4 by the compounds of this invention as long as such assays utilize what one
of skill in the art would deem to be the same parameters in measuring FGFR activity.
         In another aspect, the invention features a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a compound disclosed herein.
         In another aspect, the invention features a covalent inhibitor of FGFR-4. In some
embodiments, the covalent inhibitor of FGFR-4 inhibits FGFR-4 activity more potently, when
measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1 activity. The inhibitor can contain a
warhead.
         In another aspect, the invention features a compound that inhibits FGFR-4 activity more
potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1 activity, wherein the
compound has a molecular weight of less than 1500 daltons. For example, the compound can
inhibits FGFR-4 activity at least 10, 50, 100, 200, or 500 times more potently, when measured in
a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1 activity. In some instances, this compound can
form a covalent bond to FGFR-4, e.g. with Cys 522 of FGFR-4.
         In another aspect, the invention features an inhibited FGFR-4 protein comprising an
inhibitor having a covalent bond to a cysteine residue of FGFR-4. The covalent bond can be
formed between a portion of a warhead moiety on the inhibitor and a portion of a cysteine
                                                                                         0
residue of FGFR-4, e.g., cysteine residue 552 of the protein. The warhead can be
         In another aspect the invention features a method for treating a condition mediated by
FGFR-4, a condition characterized by overexpression of FGFR-4, a condition characterized by
amplification of FGFR4, a condition mediated by FGF19, a condition characterized by amplified
FGF-19, or a condition characterized by overexpression of FGF19, any of these methods
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound disclosed herein to a
subject.
                                                   9

        In another aspect, the invention features a method of treating any of the following
conditions by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound disclosed herein
to a subject: hepatocellular carcinoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, lung cancer, liver cancer,
a sarcoma, or hyperlipidemia.
        The invention includes all possible combinations of the embodiments described above.
        Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
        According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a compound of
Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                 N
                                            HN       X      Y
                                       H
                           Warhead     N
                                        L    A
                                               Formula I
wherein:
ring A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic, or alicyclic group;
        X is CH or N;
        Y is CH;
        L is -[C(R)(R 6 )]g-, wherein each of R5 and R6 is independently H or C 1.6 alkyl and
wherein q is 0-4;
        each of RI and R2 is independently halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkoxy,
hydroxy, oxo, amino, amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkyl, or optionally
substituted C 3 6 heterocyclyl;
        each R3 is independently halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkoxy, amino, amido,
alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkyl, or optionally substituted C 3_ heterocyclyl;
        m is 0-3;
        n is 4;
        p is 0-2;
        the bond adjacent to Y represented by a dashed line and a solid line is a double bond;
and
                                                   10

                                          Ra         0
                                                                   0
                                       Rb                    X
        Warhead is selected from              R'
                                                                 0
                                 SS-,     and          Ra
        wherein:
                 X is a halo or triflate leaving group; and
                 each of Ra, R , and R' is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1- 4 alkyl,
or substituted or unsubstituted C3 - 4 cycloalkyl.
        According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a compound
selected from:
                                                                               CI          C
                                                                           C1C
               N                                      N              N  NN
                HN                                    HN               HN             HN
              Nz     N
          CI           C
                                                       aC                           C
               Nk      N
                                                 NzI               N            N
                         HNHN                                                   UN
                   HN                                HN        N                 HNN
                   I                             ;                                       ; and
        pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
        According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one compound
                                                         10a

selected from the compounds of the first and second embodiments and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts thereof.
         According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for
treating a condition mediated by FGFR-4, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the first or second embodiments or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
         According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for
treating a condition characterized by overexpression of FGF 19, the method comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the first or second
embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
         According to a sixth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
treating a condition characterized by amplified FGF 19, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the first or second embodiments or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
         According to a seventh embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
treating hepatocellular carcinoma characterized by overexpressed or amplified FGF 19, the
method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the first
or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
         According to an eighth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
treating a condition selected from breast cancer, ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a sarcoma, liver
cancer, and hyperlipidemia, wherein the condition is characterized by overexpressed or
amplified FGF19, the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a
subject.
         According to a ninth embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of a compound
of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition mediated by FGFR-4.
         According to a tenth embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of a compound
of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by overexpression
of FGF19.
         According to an eleventh embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of a
compound of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in
                                               10b

the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by amplified
FGF19.
        According to a twelfth embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of a
compound of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in
the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma characterized
by overexpressed or amplified FGF19.
        According to a thirteenth embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of a
compound of the first or second embodiments or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in
the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition selected from breast cancer,
ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a sarcoma, liver cancer, and hyperlipidemia, wherein the condition
is characterized by overexpressed or amplified FGF 19.
                                   Brief Description of Drawings
        Fig. 1 is a spectrum showing masses for FGFR4 protein without, and with bound
inhibitor.
        Fig. 2 is a spectrum showing masses for FGFR4 protein without, and with bound
inhibitors.
        Fig. 3 is a graph showing caspase activity of a Compound 25.
        Fig. 4 is a drawing of the crystal structure of Compound 52 bound to FGFR4 protein.
        Fig. 5 is a drawing of the crystal structure of Compound 25 bound to FGFR4 protein.
        Fig. 6 is a line graph depicting the antitumor effect of Compound 25.
        Fig. 7 is a bar graph depicting the tumor weights of Hep3B-bearing nude mice.
        Fig. 8 is a line graph depicting body weight change (%) of Hep3B-bearing nude mice.
                                        Detailed Description
        Pan-FGFR inhibitors, such as BGJ398 and AZD4547, are known.
                        N~
        HN'o
BGJ398                                  AZD4547
                                    [Text continues on page 11.]
                                                  10c

These compounds (i.e., the pan-FGFR inhibitors) have not been reported to be more potent
against FGFR4 than against the other isoforms of FGFR, i.e., FGFR1, FGFR2, and FGFR3. In
fact, AZD 4547 is less potent against FGFR4 than it is against the other three isoforms.
        Unlike BGJ398 and AZD4547, the compounds disclosed below can form a covalent bond
with FGFR4 protein; for example, the compounds can form a covalent bond with a cysteine
residue of FGFR4, for example, the cysteine at residue 552. FGFRsl-3 do not contain this
cysteine. The ability to form a covalent bond between the compound and FGFR4 is therefore an
important factor in the selectivity of the compounds disclosed herein for FGFR4.
        The details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following
description or illustrated in the drawings are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments and
different ways to practice the invention are expressly included. Also, the phraseology and
terminology used herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as
limiting. The use of "including," "includes," "include," "comprising," or "having,"
"containing", "involving", and variations thereof herein, is meant to encompass the items listed
thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.
Definitions
         "Aliphatic group", as used herein, refers to a straight-chain, branched-chain, or cyclic
hydrocarbon group and includes saturated and unsaturated groups, such as an alkyl group, an
alkenyl group, and an alkynyl group.
        "Alkenyl", as used herein, refers to an aliphatic group containing at least one double
bond.
         "Alkoxyl" or "alkoxy", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group having an oxygen radical
attached thereto. Representative alkoxyl groups include methoxy, ethoxy, propyloxy, tert-butoxy
and the like.
         "Alkyl", as used herein, refers to the radical of saturated aliphatic groups, including
straight-chain alkyl groups, branched-chain alkyl groups, cycloalkyl (alicyclic) groups, alkyl
substituted cycloalkyl groups, and cycloalkyl-substituted alkyl groups. "Alkylene" refers to a
double radical, that is, an aliphatic group substituted on two ends. In some embodiments, a
straight chain or branched chain alkyl has 30 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone (e.g., C1
C30 for straight chains, C3-C30 for branched chains), and in other embodiments can have 20 or
                                                   11

fewer, or 10 or fewer. Likewise, certain cycloalkyls may have from 3-10 carbon atoms in their
ring structure, and in some embodiments may have 5, 6 or 7 carbons in the ring structure. The
term "alkenyl", as used herein, refers to an aliphatic group containing at least one double bond;
the term "alkynyl", as used herein, refers to an aliphatic group containing at least one triple bond.
         "Alkylthio", as used herein, refers to a hydrocarbyl group having a sulfur radical attached
thereto. In some embodiments, the "alkylthio" moiety is represented by one of -S-alkyl, -S
alkenyl, or -S-alkynyl. Representative alkylthio groups include methylthio, ethylthio, and the
like.
         "Amido", as used herein, refers to -C(=O)-N(R)( R2) or -N(R)-C(=O)-R         2
                                                                                        where each
of R and R 2 is H or alkyl.
        "Amino", as used herein, refers to -NH 2, -NH(alkyl), or -N(alkyl)(alkyl).
        "Amplified," as used herein, means additional copies of a gene or chromosome segment
are produced in cancer cells that may confer a growth or survival advantage.
         "Aralkyl", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group substituted with an aryl group (e.g., an
aromatic or heteroaromatic group).
         "Aryl", as used herein, refers to 5-, 6-, and 7-membered single-ring aromatic groups that
may include from zero to four heteroatoms, for example, phenyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl,
imidazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, triazolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl and
pyrimidinyl, and the like. Those aryl groups having heteroatoms in the ring structure may also
be referred to as "aryl heterocycles" or "heteroaromatics." The aromatic ring can be substituted at
one or more ring positions with such substituents as described above, for example, halogen,
azide, alkyl, aralkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, polycyclyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amino, nitro,
sulfhydryl, imino, amido, phosphate, phosphonate, phosphinate, carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether,
alkylthio, sulfonyl, sulfonamido, ketone, aldehyde, ester, heterocyclyl, aromatic or
heteroaromatic moieties, -CF 3 , -CN, or the like. The term "aryl" also includes polycyclic ring
systems having two or more cyclic rings in which two or more carbons are common to two
adjoining rings (the rings are "fused rings") wherein at least one of the rings is aromatic, e.g., the
other cyclic rings can be cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls.
Each ring can contain, e.g., 5-7 members.
        The term "carbocycle" or "cycloalkyl," as used herein, refers to an aromatic or non
aromatic ring in which each atom of the ring is carbon.
                                                    12

         "Covalent inhibitor," as used herein, means an inhibitor that can form a covalent bond
with a protein.
         The "enantiomeric excess" or "% enantiomeric excess" of a composition can be
calculated using the equation shown below. In the example shown below a composition contains
90% of one enantiomer, e.g., the S-enantiomer, and 10% of the other enantiomer, i.e., the R
enantiomer.
                                      ee = (90-10)/100 = 80%.
Thus, a composition containing 90% of one enantiomer and 10% of the other enantiomer is said
to have an enantiomeric excess of 80%. Some of the compositions described herein contain an
enantiomeric excess of at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at
least 95%, or at least 99% of Compound 1 (the S-enantiomer). In other words, the compositions
contain an enantiomeric excess of the S-enantiomer over the R-enantiomer.
         "FGFR-4" or "FGFR-4 protein" refers to any form of the FGFR-4 protein, including wild
type and all variant forms (including, without limitation, mutant forms and splice variants). The
FGFR-4 protein is a product of the FGFR-4 gene, and the FGFR-4 protein therefore includes any
protein encoded by any form of the FGFR-4 gene, including all aberrations, e.g., point mutations,
indels, translocation fusions, and focal amplifications.
         "Heteroarylalkyl" refers to an alkyl group substituted with a heteroaryl group.
         "Heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic group" refers to a ring structure, such as a 3- to 7
membered ring structure, whose ring(s) include one or more heteroatoms. Heterocycles can also
be polycycles, with each group having, e.g., 3-7 ring members. The term "heterocyclyl" or
"heterocyclic group" includes "heteroaryl" and "saturated or partially saturated heterocyclyl"
structures. "Heteroaryl" refers to an aromatic 5-8 membered monocyclic, 8-12 membered
bicyclic, or 11-14 membered tricyclic ring system having one or more heteroatoms, selected
from 0, N, or S. Any ring atom can be substituted (e.g., by one or more substituents). The term
"saturated or partially saturated heterocyclyl" refers to a non-aromatic cylic structure that
includes at least one heteroatom. Heterocyclyl groups include, for example, thiophenyl,
thianthrenyl, furanyl, pyranyl, isobenzofuranyl, chromenyl, xanthenyl, phenoxathiin, pyrrolyl,
imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl,
indolizinyl, isoindolyl, indolyl, indazolyl, purinyl, quinolizinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinolinyl,
phthalazinyl, naphthyridinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinazolinyl, cinnolinyl, pteridinyl, carbazolyl,
                                                  13

carboline, phenanthridine, acridine, pyrimidine, phenanthroline, phenazine, phenarsazine,
phenothiazine, furazan, phenoxazine, pyrrolidine, oxolane, thiolane, oxazole, piperidine,
piperazine, morpholine, lactones, lactams such as azetidinones and pyrrolidinones, sultams,
sultones, and the like. The heterocyclic ring can be substituted at one or more positions with such
substituents as described above, as for example, halogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
cycloalkyl, hydroxyl, amino, nitro, sulfhydryl, imino, amido, phosphate, phosphonate,
phosphinate, carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether, alkylthio, sulfonyl, ketone, aldehyde, ester, a
heterocyclyl, an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety, -CF3, -CN, or the like.
         "Heterocyclylalkyl" refers to an alkyl group substituted with a heterocycle group.
         "Inhibitor" refers to a compound that inhibits an enzyme such that a reduction in activity
of the enzyme can be observed, e.g., in a biochemical assay. In certain embodiments, an
inhibitor has an IC5 0 of less than about 1 kM, less than about 500 nM, less than about 250 nM,
less than about 100 nM, less than about 50 nM, or less than about 10 nM. An inhibitor of FGFR
4 refers to a compound that inhibits FGFR-4.
          "Overexpressed," as used herein, means there is production of a gene product in a
sample that is substantially higher than that observed in a population of control samples (e.g.
normal tissue).
         "Selective" refers to a compound that inhibits the activity of a target protein, e.g., FGFR
4, more potently than it inhibits activity of other proteins. In this instance, the isoforms FGFR-1,
FGFR-2, FGFR-3, and FGFR-4 are all considered distinct proteins. In some embodiments, a
compound can inhibit the activity of the target protein, e.g., FGFR-4, at least 1.5, at least 2, at
least 5, at least 10, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least
80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 200, at least 500, or at least 1000 or more times potently than
it inhibits the activity of a non-target protein.
         "Substituted" refers to moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more
carbons of the backbone. It will be understood that "substitution" or "substituted with" includes
the implicit proviso that such substitution is in accordance with permitted valence of the
substituted atom and the substituent, and that the substitution results in a stable compound, e.g.,
which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement, cyclization,
elimination, etc. As used herein, the term "substituted" is contemplated to include all
permissible substituents of organic compounds. In a broad aspect, the permissible substituents
                                                       14

include acyclic and cyclic, branched and unbranched, carbocyclic and heterocyclic, aromatic and
non-aromatic substituents of organic compounds. The permissible substituents can be one or
more and the same or different for appropriate organic compounds. For purposes of this
invention, the heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or any
permissible substituents of organic compounds described herein which satisfy the valences of the
heteroatoms. Substituents can include any substituents described herein, for example, a halogen,
a hydroxyl, a carbonyl (such as a carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl, a formyl, or an acyl), a
thiocarbonyl (such as a thioester, a thioacetate, or a thioformate), an alkoxyl, a phosphoryl, a
phosphate, a phosphonate, a phosphinate, an amino, an amido, an amidine, an imine, a cyano, a
nitro, an azido, a sulfhydryl, an alkylthio, a sulfate, a sulfonate, a sulfamoyl, a sulfonamido, a
sulfonyl, a heterocyclyl, an aralkyl, or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. It will be
understood by those skilled in the art that the moieties substituted on the hydrocarbon chain can
themselves be substituted, if appropriate. For instance, the substituents of a substituted alkyl
may include substituted and unsubstituted forms of amino, azido, imino, amido, phosphoryl
(including phosphonate and phosphinate), sulfonyl (including sulfate, sulfonamido, sulfamoyl
and sulfonate), and silyl groups, as well as ethers, alkylthios, carbonyls (including ketones,
aldehydes, carboxylates, and esters), -CF 3, -CN and the like. Exemplary substituted alkyls are
described below. Cycloalkyls can be further substituted with alkyls, alkenyls, alkoxys,
alkylthios, aminoalkyls, carbonyl-substituted alkyls, -CF 3 , -CN, and the like. Analogous
substitutions can be made to alkenyl and alkynyl groups to produce, for example, aminoalkenyls,
aminoalkynyls, amidoalkenyls, amidoalkynyls, iminoalkenyls, iminoalkynyls, thioalkenyls,
thioalkynyls, carbonyl-substituted alkenyls or alkynyls.
         As used herein, the definition of each expression, e.g., alkyl, m, n, etc., when it occurs
more than once in any structure, is intended to be independent of its definition elsewhere in the
same structure.
         "Warhead moiety" or "warhead" refers to a moiety of an inhibitor which participates,
either reversibly or irreversibly, with the reaction of a donor, e.g., a protein, with a substrate.
Warheads may, for example, form covalent bonds with the protein, or may create stable
transition states, or be a reversible or an irreversible alkylating agent. For example, the warhead
moiety can be a functional group on an inhibitor that can participate in a bond-forming reaction,
wherein a new covalent bond is formed between a portion of the warhead and a donor, for
                                                    15

example an amino acid residue of a protein. In embodiments, the warhead is an electrophile and
the "donor" is a nucleophile such as the side chain of a cysteine residue. Examples of suitable
warheads include, without limitation, the groups shown below:
    R'      0                                                                           0
Rb
                        X
                                                 N
                                                                           Ra
                     0               0
                         CN              CF3
wherein X is a leaving group such as halo, or an activated hydroxyl moiety (e.g., triflate); and
each of Ra, Rb, and R' is, independently, H, substituted or unsubstituted C 14 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C14 cycloalkyl, or cyano.
         The compounds described herein may contain unnatural proportions of atomic isotopes at
one or more of the atoms that constitute such compounds. For example, the compounds may be
radiolabeled with radioactive isotopes, such as for example tritium ( H) or carbon-14 ( 4C). All
isotopic variations of the compounds disclosed herein, whether radioactive or not, are intended to
be encompassed within the scope of the present invention. For example, deuterated compounds
or compounds containing     1C are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the invention.
         Certain compounds can exist in different tautomeric forms, and all possible tautomeric
forms of all of the compounds described herein are intended to be encompassed within the scope
of the invention.
         Unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to include all isomeric
(e.g., enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or conformational)) forms of the structure;
for example, the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center, Z and E double bond
isomers, and Z and E conformational isomers. Therefore, single stereochemical isomers as well
as enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or conformational) mixtures of the present
compounds are within the scope of the invention. Unless otherwise stated, all tautomeric forms
of the compounds of the invention are within the scope of the invention.
         The compounds described herein can be useful as the free base or as a salt.
Representative salts include the hydrobromide, hydrochloride, sulfate, bisulfate, phosphate,
                                                  16

nitrate, acetate, valerate, oleate, palmitate, stearate, laurate, benzoate, lactate, phosphate, tosylate,
citrate, maleate, fumarate, succinate, tartrate, napthylate, mesylate, glucoheptonate, lactobionate,
and laurylsulphonate salts and the like. (See, for example, Berge et al. (1977) "Pharmaceutical
Salts", J. Pharm. Sci. 66:1-19.)
          Certain compounds disclosed herein can exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated
forms, including hydrated forms. In general, the solvated forms are equivalent to unsolvated
forms and are encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain compounds
disclosed herein may exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In general, all physical
forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention and are intended to be
within the scope of the present invention.
          Exemplary compounds include the following:
                                                               00
                            N      N                                      N
                                       C1
        N-      NNfN                                               N
           NA                             CI                         N
                         0
                                     0
            NN
            N
            N
N
                         N     N
        0                        0                -0
                                                     17

    II                CI
  I
                           I
                          N  J
                                                            NH
                       N           N
                                                       N       N
                                             0    N H
                0                 0
                                                                 0
                                                                        0
                                        N  H
                                                                     N
                                     NN                              N,
               IPo
                   N
                  N                       H
0     NHH
                                               HN     0N_,
                                                                   0
                                                  N
                     N   N
                               HH
          0 NH
                                                         00
                                             18

                                            Cil           F
                            O0
                                                                        N_
                                                  N     N
N                N     NN
                                                            N/N
  HN:N:
        INN                               /                    N
                                                                          /
                                    NN  F               F
             0                      HN
   HH N                   O                                    N
                                C-
               N                       F        NH      F   F
          HN
                                                    NF/
                               0HN
                                   19C
                   -- 'N                                        IN-0-19

                                                            00
                                 CI
                -   0
                                                               u
                                                                           0
cI         cl         Ci          c        cilc
                  N                                                  N     N
                                           F~                           HN
                         HN  HNHN
                                                N                      H
              0
      SN~
                                            F
 N                          N..     N             N~      N
          HNHN
                                         F           HN          H
   HN                           HN                    HN6         D6
                                      20

                                                            00
cl        0l
                                                               I
                     FNN                                          N
                NF,    NN
                                                                    F_
                                              H                N&
      HN                      HN
                                                               HN
       HF       F              N               HN    F
                                                           0
                                          Cil     Cl
                    NF                N TF
             7>           0F
                                 NH F
   NH
                            N
                                          HN           IIN
                            -
                          0
                                                           0
       0                            0         0
                                      N21

         N                                             N
              0
                                 0
                                   HN         N      N                NN
         NN       CN
         I NNN                                               N
                          0
              NN
                                        INN
                                       IRN
            I                                     0F
                                                     I        C
                       0F
                                                  0             Fl
---  NHN                                               N
                     N      N                           O    ==
    OHN                       HN            N             H
                                                  C         C I
                                                 aN
          NR    H
                                                                    H F N_ N
         0
                                    ~0         ~                 FR   F
                                           22

                                        Cl
                                                                                  N    N
                        N    N
                                                HNN
                                                          No                C'      0
              o        HN                           0                  O         HN
Pharmaceutical Compositions
         While it is possible for a compound disclosed herein to be administered alone, it is
preferable to administer the compound as a pharmaceutical formulation, where the compound is
combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or carriers. The compounds
disclosed herein may be formulated for administration in any convenient way for use in human
or veterinary medicine. In certain embodiments, the compound included in the pharmaceutical
preparation may be active itself, or may be a prodrug, e.g., capable of being converted to an
active compound in a physiological setting. In certain embodiments, the compounds provided
herein include their hydrates.
         The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is employed herein to refer to those
compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals
without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem or complication,
commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
         Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of a compound described herein include
those derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic acids and bases.
Examples of suitable acid salts include acetate, adipate, benzoate, benzenesulfonate, butyrate,
citrate, digluconate, dodecylsulfate, formate, fumarate, glycolate, hemisulfate, heptanoate,
hexanoate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, lactate, maleate, malonate,
methanesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, palmoate, phosphate, picrate,
pivalate, propionate, salicylate, succinate, sulfate, tartrate, tosylate and undecanoate. Salts
derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal (e.g., sodium), alkaline earth metal (e.g.,
                                                    23

magnesium), ammonium and N-(alkyl)4 ' salts. This invention also envisions the quaternization
of any basic nitrogen-containing groups of the compounds described herein. Water or oil-soluble
or dispersible products may be obtained by such quaternization.
        Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose,
glucose and sucrose; (2) starches, such as corn starch and potato starch; (3) cellulose, and its
derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; (4)
powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6) gelatin; (7) talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and
suppository waxes; (9) oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil,
corn oil and soybean oil; (10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin,
sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol; (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate;
(13) agar; (14) buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; (15)
alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl
alcohol; (20) phosphate buffer solutions; (21) cyclodextrins such as Captisol@; targeting ligands
attached to nanoparticles, such as Accurins Tm ; and (22) other non-toxic compatible substances,
such as polymer-based compositions, employed in pharmaceutical formulations.
        Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include: (1) water soluble
antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid, cysteine hydrochloride, sodium bisulfate, sodium
metabisulfite, sodium sulfite and the like; (2) oil-soluble antioxidants, such as ascorbyl palmitate,
butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), lecithin, propyl gallate,
alpha-tocopherol, and the like; and (3) metal chelating agents, such as citric acid,
ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), sorbitol, tartaric acid, phosphoric acid, and the like.
Solid dosage forms (e.g., capsules, tablets, pills, dragees, powders, granules and the like) can
include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate or dicalcium
phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches, lactose, sucrose,
glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example, carboxymethylcellulose,
alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose and/or acacia; (3) humectants, such as glycerol;
(4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic
acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6)
absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as,
for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and
                                                   24

bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a talc, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid
polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents.
Liquid dosage forms can include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions, microemulsions,
solutions, suspensions, syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient, the liquid dosage
forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art, such as, for example, water or other
solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl
carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol,
oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor and sesame oils), glycerol,
tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan, and mixtures
thereof.
         Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents as, for
example, ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters,
microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth, and
mixtures thereof.
         Ointments, pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to an active compound,
excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins, starch, tragacanth, cellulose
derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic acid, talc and zinc oxide, or
mixtures thereof.
         Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to an active compound, excipients such as
lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates and polyamide powder, or
mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants, such as
chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as butane and propane.
         The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be
prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. The amount of active ingredient
which can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary
depending upon the host being treated, the particular mode of administration. The amount of
active ingredient that can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form
will generally be that amount of the compound which produces a therapeutic effect.
         Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this
invention include powders, sprays, ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches
and inhalants. The active compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a
                                                   25

pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and with any preservatives, buffers, or propellants that may
be required.
        When the compounds disclosed herein are administered as pharmaceuticals, to humans
and animals, they can be given per se or as a pharmaceutical composition containing, for
example, 0.1 to 99.5% (more preferably, 0.5 to 90%) of active ingredient in combination with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
         The formulations can be administered topically, orally, transdermally, rectally, vaginally,
parentally, intranasally, intrapulmonary, intraocularly, intravenously, intramuscularly,
intraarterially, intrathecally, intracapsularly, intradermally, intraperitoneally, subcutaneously,
subcuticularly, or by inhalation.
Indications
        FGFR-4 regulates proliferation, survival, and alpha-fetoprotein secretion during
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression; inhibitors of FGFR-4 are therefore promising
potential therapeutic agents for this unmet medical need (Ho et al., Journal of Hepatology, 2009,
50:118-27). HCC afflicts more than 550,000 people worldwide every year and has one of the
worst 1-year survival rates of any cancer type.
        Further evidence of the link between FGFR-4 and HCC is shown through the
involvement of FGF19, a member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family, which consists of
hormones that regulate glucose, lipid, and energy homeostasis. Increased hepatocyte
proliferation and liver tumor formation have been observed in FGF19 transgenic mice. FGF19
activates FGFR-4, its predominant receptor in the liver, and it is believed that activation of
FGFR-4 is the mechanism whereby FGF19 can increase hepatocyte proliferation and induce
hepatocellular carcinoma formation (Wu et al., J Biol Chem (2010) 285(8):5165-5170). FGF19
has been identified as a driver gene in HCC by others as well (Sawey et al., Cancer Cell (2011)
19: 347-358). It is therefore believed that the compounds disclosed herein, which are potent and
selective inhibitors of FGFR-4, can be used to treat HCC and other liver cancers.
        Oncogenome screening has identified an activating fibroblast growth factor receptor 4
(FGFR-4) Y367C mutation in the human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-453. This mutation
was shown to elicit constitutive phosphorylation, leading to an activation of the mitogen
activated protein kinase cascade. Accordingly, it has been suggested that FGFR-4 may be a
                                                     26

driver of tumor growth in breast cancer (Roidl et al., Oncogene (2010) 29(10):1543-1552). It is
therefore believed that the compounds disclosed herein, which are potent and selective inhibitors
of FGFR-4, can be used to treat FGFR-4 modulated breast cancer.
        Molecular changes (e.g., translocations) in genes upstream of FGFR-4 can lead to
activation/overexpression of FGFR-4. For example, a PAX3-FKHR translocation/gene fusion
can lead to FGFR-4 overexpression. Overexpression of FGFR-4 due to this mechanism has been
associated with rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) (Cao et al., Cancer Res (2010) 70(16): 6497-6508).
Mutations in FGFR-4 itself (e.g., kinase domain mutations) can lead to over-activation of the
protein; this mechanism has been associated with a subpopulation of RMS (Taylor et al., J Clin
Invest (2009) 119: 3395-3407). It is therefore believed that the compounds disclosed herein,
which are potent and selective inhibitors of FGFR-4, can be used to treat FGFR-4 modulated
RMS and other sarcomas.
        Other diseases have been associated with changes in genes upstream of FGFR-4 or with
mutations in FGFR-4 itself. For example, mutations in the kinase domain of FGFR-4 lead to
over-activation, which has been associated with lung adenocarcinoma (Ding et al., Nature (2008)
455(7216): 1069-1075). Amplification of FGFR-4 has been associated with conditions such as
renal cell carcinoma (TCGA provisional data). In addition, silencing FGFR4 and inhibiting
ligand-receptor binding significantly decrease ovarian tumor growth, suggesting that inhibitors
of FGFR4 could be useful in treating ovarian cancer. (Zaid et al., Clin. Cancer Res. (2013) 809).
        Pathogenic elevations of bile acid levels have been linked to variations in FGF19 levels
(Vergnes et al., Cell Metabolism (2013) 17, 916-28). Reduction in the level of FGF19 may
therefore be of benefit in promoting the synthesis of bile acid and thus in the treatment of
hyperlipidemia.
Dose Levels
        Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of this
invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient that is effective to
achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient, composition, and mode of
administration, without being toxic to the patient.
        The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of
the particular compound disclosed herein employed, or the ester, salt or amide thereof, the route
of administration, the time of administration, the rate of excretion of the particular compound
                                                 27

being employed, the duration of the treatment, other drugs, compounds and/or materials used in
combination with the particular compound employed, the age, sex, weight, condition, general
health and prior medical history of the patient being treated, and like factors well known in the
medical arts.
         A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and
prescribe the effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition required. For example, the
physician or veterinarian could start doses of the compounds of the invention employed in the
pharmaceutical composition at levels lower than that required in order to achieve the desired
therapeutic effect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved.
         In general, a suitable daily dose of a compound of the invention will be that amount of
the compound that is the lowest dose effective to produce a therapeutic effect. Such an effective
dose will generally depend upon the factors described above. Generally, doses of the compounds
of this invention for a patient will range from about 0.000 1 to about 100 mg per kilogram of
body weight per day. For example, the dose could be between 0.1 and lOg per day; between 0.5
and 5 g per day; or 1-2 g per day. If desired, the effective daily dose of the active compound
may be administered as one, two, three, four, five, six or more sub-doses administered separately
at appropriate intervals throughout the day, optionally, in unit dosage forms.
Combination and Targeted Therapy
         Administration of the FGFR-4 inhibitors disclosed herein can be combined with other
cancer treatments. For example, the inhibitors can be administered in combination with surgical
treatments, radiation, or other therapeutic agents such as antibodies, other selective kinase
inhibitors, or chemotherapeutics. The inhibitors may also be administered in combination with
RNAi therapy or antisense therapy. The FGFR-4 inhibitors described herein may be combined
with one, two, or more other therapeutic agents. In the examples outlined below, it is understood
that "second therapeutic agent" also includes more than one therapeutic agent other than the
FGFR-4 inhibitor. A FGFR-4 inhibitor described herein may be administered with one, two, or
more other therapeutic agents.
         The FGFR-4 inhibitors described herein and the second therapeutic agent do not have to
be administered in the same pharmaceutical composition, and may, because of different physical
and chemical characteristics, be administered by different routes. For example, the FGFR-4
                                                   28

inhibitor can be administered orally, while the second therapeutic agent is administered
intravenously. The determination of the mode of administration and the advisability of
administration, where possible, in the same pharmaceutical composition, is well within the
knowledge of the skilled clinician. The initial administration can be made according to
established protocols known in the art, and then, based upon the observed effects, the dosage,
modes of administration and times of administration can be modified by the skilled clinician.
        The FGFR-4 inhibitor and the second therapeutic agent may be administered
concurrently (e.g., simultaneously, essentially simultaneously or within the same treatment
protocol) or sequentially (i.e., one followed by the other, with an optional time interval in
between), depending upon the nature of the proliferative disease, the condition of the patient, and
the actual choice of second therapeutic agent to be administered.
        In addition, the FGFR-4 inhibitors disclosed herein can be administered as part of an
antibody-drug conjugate, where the FGFR-4 inhibitor is the "payload" portion of the conjugate.
Analytical instruments and methods for compound characterization:
LCMS: Unless otherwise indicated, all liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LCMS) data
(sample analyzed for purity and identity) were obtained with an Agilent model- 1260 LC system
using an Agilent model 6120 mass spectrometer utilizing ES-API ionization fitted with an
Agilent Poroshel 120 (EC-C18, 2.7um particle size, 3.0 x 50mm dimensions) reverse-phase
column at 22.4 degrees Celsius. The mobile phase consisted of a mixture of solvent 0.1% formic
acid in water and 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. A constant gradient from 95% aqueous/5%
organic to 5% aqueous/95% organic mobile phase over the course of 4 minutes was utilized.
The flow rate was constant at 1mL/min.
Proton NMR: Unless otherwise indicated, all 1H NMR spectra were obtained with a Varian
400MHz Unity Inova 400 MHz NMR instrument (acquisition time = 3.5 seconds with a 1 second
delay; 16 to 64 scans). Where characterized, all protons were reported in DMSO-d solvent as
parts-per million (ppm) with respect to residual DMSO (2.50 ppm).Preparative instruments for
purification of compounds: Silica gel chromatography was performed on either a Teledyne Isco
CombiFlash@ Rf unit or a Biotage@ Isolera Four unit.
Prep LCMS: Preparative HPLC was performed on a Shimadzu Discovery VP@ Preparative
system fitted with a Luna 5u C18(2) 1O0A, AXIA packed, 250 x 21.2 mm reverse-phase column
                                                  29

at 22.4 degrees Celsius. The mobile phase consisted of a mixture of solvent 0.1% formic acid in
water and 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. A constant gradient from 95% aqueous/5% organic
to 5% aqueous/95% organic mobile phase over the course of 25 minutes was utilized. The flow
rate was constant at 20 mL/min. Reactions carried out in a microwave were done so in a Biotage
Initiator microwave unit.
Example 1: Synthesis of N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-7,8
dihydropyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide     COMPOUND 43
             N      CO 2 Et MeNH 2 in MeOH     N      CO 2 Et   LAH
         MeS   N    CI         THF, RT     MeS   N     N      THF, RT
                                                       H
                  N    N      OH     Mn2         N        O
              MeS    N      N       DCM,RT MeS     N    N
                            H                           H
                                                     30

                                                                          N           O         s      N
    O              OH SOCl 2, MeOH                          O        MeS     N      NHN
               O          OC       RT                    O             K2 C0 3, DMF                  -        NO
                                                                       110 C, 3 h                        O
                                                                                                             0
                            0                                                  0        N
                                   N                                            \ '     N
                           oII
         Oxone                   N                              S2C2                N            CI         BuOK
                                                    0                                                  0
   MeOH/DCM/H 2 0, 40 0C           N           N       ,    MeCN, -10 C~0 C             N              ON  DMF, RT
                                          O       O                                        OCI
                                                                                           0       1
                               0                                                             0
                        CI                                                           CI
             N                       O                                    N                     O0
                               CH              SnCl 2 2H 20                                  C
          HN    N     N                       EtAc,60                 HN    N     N       0
    O2N                                                        H2 N
                                             0
                                       CI
                            N               N
                        HN      NN        O CI
                    0
  Step 1: Synthesis of ethyl 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate
                                     N:        CO2Et MeNH 2 in MeOH                   N       - CO2Et
                            MeS         N      CI           THF, RT           MeS          N    N
                                                                                                H
          A mixture of ethyl 4-chloro-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate (5.0 g, 21.5 mmol)
- and 29% methylamine (5.75 g, 53.72 mmol, methanol (MeOH) solution) in tetrahydrofuran
  (THF) (100 mL) was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then
  concentrated, followed by the addition of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO 3 ) (aq., 20 mL), and the
  resulting solution was extracted with ethyl acetate (EtOAc) (3 x 50 mL). The combined organic
  layers were washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to
  afford ethyl 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate (4.68 g, 96%) as a
  yellowish solid. MS (ES+) C9H 13N3 0 2S requires: 227, found: 228 [M + H]*.
  Step 2: Synthesis of (4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidin-5-yl)methanol
                                                                 31

                          MeS         CO2Et       LAHRT MeS N            OH
                                       H                              H
         To a suspension of lithium aluminum hydride (LiAlH4 ) (1.140 g, 30 mmol) in THF (100
mL) was added ethyl 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carboxylate (4.536 g, 20
mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solution was
carefully quenched with H 2 0 (2 mL), sodium hydroxide (NaOH) (aq., 15%, 2 mL) and
additional H 20 (7 mL), and then stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc (2 x
100 mL), and the combined organic layers were washed with water and brine, dried over sodium
sulfate, and concentrated to give (4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidin-5-yl)methanol (3.2
g, 85%) as a yellowish solid. MS (ES+) C7 HIIN 3 0S requires: 185, found: 186 [M + H]*.
Step 3: Synthesis of 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carbaldehyde
                                N         OH     MnO 2         N          O
                          MeS      N   N       DCM,RT MeS         N     N
                                       H                                H
         A suspension of (4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidin-5-yl)methanol (3.1 g, 16.73
mmol) and manganese dioxide (7.27 g, 83.67 mmol) in DCM (40 mL) was stirred at room
temperature for 12 hours. The resulting precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was
concentrated to give 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carbaldehyde         (2.8 g, 91%) as
a yellowish solid. MS (ES+) C7 H9 N 3 0S requires: 183, found: 184 [M + H]*.
Step 4: Synthesis of methyl 2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)acetate
                                       OH SOCl 2, MeOH
                                             OC-     rt                   O
         To a solution of 2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)acetic acid (5) (600 mg, 3.06 mmol) in MeOH
(30 mL) was added dropwise thionyl chloride (3 mL) at 0 0 C, and the reaction mixture was
stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was monitored by liquid chromatography
mass spectrometry (LCMS). The mixture was diluted with saturated sodium bicarbonate (aq., 20
mL) and extracted by EtOAc (3 x 20 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with water
and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to give methyl 2-(3,5
                                                 32

dimethoxyphenyl)acetate (crude, 700 mg) as a yellow oil. MS (ES+) CIIH 14 0 4 requires: 210,
found: 211 [M + H]*.
Step 5: Synthesis of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2-(methylthio)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin
7(8H)-one
             10                 O-        MeS              O
                                                          HN     /   N
                     O110                     K2CO 3 , DMF               O
                                              110 C, 3 h
                                                                                OsN
          A solution of 2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)acetate (6) (440 mg, 2.40 mmol), 4-amino-2
(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carbaldehyde (4) (605 mg, 2.88 mmol) and potassium carbonate (662
mg, 4.8 mmol) in DMF (30 mL) was stirred at 110 0C for 3 hours. The reaction was monitored
by LCMS. The reaction mixture was diluted with H 20 (30 mL), and extracted by EtOAc (3 x 40
mL). The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
petroleum ether/EtOAc = 2:1) to afford 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2
(methylthio)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-one (7) (683 mg, 83%) as a white solid. MS (ES+)
C 17 H 17 N3 0 5 S requires: 343, found: 344 [M + H]*.
Step 6: Synthesis of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one
                                                                 0
                  S    N                                       O-N
                     N /                          Oxone@           N /
                       N               O. MeOH/DCM/H 2 0, 40 0C     N              O
                          0                                            0
          To a solution of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2- (methylthio)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-one (1.05 g, 3.1 mmol) in methanol/dichloromethane (MeOH/DCM) (20
mL/20 mL) was added a solution of Oxone@ (potassium peroxymonosulfate) (11.3 g, 18.4
mmol) in H 20 (20 mL) at room temperature, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 0C for 18
hours. The reaction was monitored by LCMS. The reaction mixture was diluted with H2 0/DCM
                                                      33

(150 mL/100 mL), and the aqueous phase was extracted with DCM (100 mL). The combined
organic layers were washed with water (200 mL) and brine (200 mL), dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered, and concentrated. The crude product was recrystallizated with EtOAc to afford 6-(3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2- (methylsulfonyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one (8) (910 mg,
yield 78%) as yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 17 H 17 N3 0 5 S, requires: 375, found: 376 [M + H]*.
Step 7: Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2
(methylsulfonyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one
               o                                                    0\\  0
                11
              O        N                                              SI N
                   N                                  SO 2CI 2            N            CI
                       N 0            O        MeCN,-10C--0 C               N              OI
                                      O                                       OCI
         To a solution of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2- (methylsulfonyl)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-one (8) (938 mg, 2.5 mmol) in acetonitrile (50 mL) was slowly added a
solution of sulfuryl chloride (1.34 g, 10.0 mmol) in acetonitrile (25 mL) over a period of 0.5 hour
at a temperature ranging from -10 0C to 0 0 C. The reaction was monitored by thin layer
chromatography (TLC). The reaction mixture was quenched by adding H 20 (10 mL). The
resultant reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue was
recrystallizated with EtOAc/petroleum ether = 1:2 to give 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)
- 8-methyl-2- (methylsulfonyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one (9) (760 mg, 69% yield) as
yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 17 Hi 5 Cl 2 N 3 0 5 S requires: 443, 445, found: 444, 446 [M + H]*.
Step 8: Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2- (2-methyl-6
nitrophenylamino)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one
                 0\\ '0Q
                                                                                  N
                               '-'S                      ri         NCI
                                   CI NN                                                 O
                         N             O         DMF, RT                            CIC,
                                                                 HN     N   N   0
                           0c                                  N
                                                             2
         To a mixture of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl) -8-methyl-2
(methylsulfonyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one (9) (1.0 g, 2.26 mmol) and 2-methyl-6
                                                       34

nitrobenzenamine (684 mg, 4.5 mmol) in DMF (20 mL), potassium tert-butoxide (756 mg, 6.75
mmol) was added at -10 'C, and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5
minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc (150 mL), and the organic phase was
separated, washed with water (2 x 150 mL) and then brine (150 mL), dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered, and concentrated. The residue was recrystallizated with EtOAc to give 2-(2-amino-6
methylphenylamino)- 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methylpyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin
7(8H)-one (10) (810 mg, yield 70%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 23 H19 Cl 2 N5 O5 requires: 515,
517, found: 516, 518 [M + H]*.
Step 9: Synthesis of 2-(2-amino-6-methylphenylamino)-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)
8-methylpyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one
                            OT0
                     CI                                                          CI
           A                CSnCl2               2H 2 0                N   /C
        HN     N   N     0                                        HN     N     N    O
                                          EtOAc, 60'C          HN        NN         0
 02 N                                                       H2N ~
A mixture of 2-(2-nitro-6-methylphenylamino)-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8
methylpyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-one (10) (810 mg, 1.57 mmol) and tin(II) chloride hydrate
(1.77 g, 7.86 mmol) in EtOAc (50 mL) was stirred at 60 0C for 2 hours. The reaction was
monitored by LCMS. The reaction mixture was basified with saturated aqueous sodium
bicarbonate to pH = 8-9, diluted with H 20 (100 mL), and then extracted with EtOAc (3 x 100
mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (150 mL), dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered, and concentrated. The residue was recrystallized with dichloromethane/ethyl
acetate/petroleum ether (DCM/EtOAc/PE) = 1/1/2 to give 2-(2-amino-6-methylphenylamino)-6
(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 8-methylpyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7 (8H)-one (11) (640 mg,
83% yield) as a grey solid. (MS (ES+) C2 3 H 21 Cl 2 N5 O3 requires: 485, 487, found: 486, 488 [M +
H]; 'H-NMR (500 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 ppm 8.54 (s, 1H), 7.45 (s, 1H), 7.08 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.71
(dd, J= 3.5, 7.5 Hz, 2H), 6.65 (br s, 1H), 6.62 (s, 1H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 3.88 (br s, 2H), 3.62 (br s,
3H), 2.24 (s, 3H).
Step 10: Synthesis of N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-7,8
dihydropyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide COMPOUND 43
                                                  35

                     CI                                                              CI
          N                      O       acryloyl chloride                 N                O
                           CI                DCM, 0 C                                     C
       HN    N     N     0                                             HN     N    N    O
H2N                                                               N
        2-(2-amino-6-methylphenylamino)-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8
methylpyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-one (11) was taken up in DCM (2 ml) and cooled to 00 C,
followed by addition of acryloyl chloride (0.010 mL, 0.13 mmol). The reaction was allowed to
warm to room temperature and stirred overnight. The mixture was loaded directly onto silica gel
and purified by flash chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to provide the
product, N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-7,8-dihydropyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide (Compound E). The product was obtained
as an off-white solid (10 mg; 19% yield). MS (ES+) C26 H 2 3 Cl 2 N5 O4 , 540 [M + H]*.
Example 2: Synthesis of N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methoxyphenyl)acrylamide COMPOUND 30
                                                        36

     Br                               Br                                Br                  0~
                   BH 3-THF            -                  Mn0  2                       H2N 1   NH2        N       ~~Br
                                C-RTO                    -H,              -H1                      -     1-a
          COOH    THE,    C- RT                OH                                O2NN180              HO      N
     NH2                              NH2                               NH2
                                                                                     0C,
                                                     O                                nea
                                                                                     t    O
     POC13           N           Br
                                  ~             H 'B, OH                                                 S   2 CI
                                                                                                                2           CI1
                                                H        O
  1100C, 3 h      CN             BN                                                             O     THF,-20C, 1 h    N    CI  O O
                                         THF, H20, MW, 85    4C, 3h   CI      N                                     CI   NC
        NH2                                O                                                        O
02 N         O 0
                                   CI
                                                                                             CI
                      HN <N                           O                         HN      NO
               0 2N ,&       Os                                          H2N         O
                                                                    0
                                                    N                      0
                                                      Os
                                          0N
Step 1: Synthesis of (2-amino-5-bromophenyl)methanol
   Br                                                Br
                         BH3-THF
                                0
                       THF,0 C- RT                     /          OH
           COOH
   NH2                                               NH2
           To a solution of 2-amino-5-bromobenzoic acid (10.0 g, 46.3 mmol) in THF (150 mL)
was added BH 3-THF (1 M, 231 mL) at room temperature, and the reaction mixture was stirred
overnight. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was analyzed by LCMS and indicated that the
reaction had proceeded to completion. The reaction was quenched with water (150 mL) and
extracted with EtOAc (3 x 500 mL). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed with
water (200 mL) and brine (200 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to
afford the title compound (10 g, crude), which was directly used in the next step without further
purification. MS (ES+) C 7H 8BrNO requires: 201, found: 202, 204 [M + H]*.
Step 2: Synthesis of 2-amino-5-bromobenzaldehyde
                                                                        37

                                 Br                               Br
                                                  MnO 2
                                         OH               'n/2-O
                                                 CH 2 CI 2
                                 NH2                              NH2
        A mixture of (2-amino-5-bromophenyl)methanol (10 g, 49.5 mmol) and MnO 2 (25.8 g,
296.6 mmol) in CH 2Cl 2 (400 mL) was stirred at RT overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was
completed. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated to give the title
compound as a light yellow solid (8 g, 8 1%), which was directly used in next step without
further purification. MS (ES+) C 7H6BrNO requires: 199, found: 200, 202 [M + H]*.
Step 3: Synthesis of 6-bromoquinazolin-2-ol
                            Br                 O
                                          H2 N     NH2          N         Br
                                          180 0C,  neat     HO     N
                            NH2
        A mixture of 2-amino-5-bromobenzaldehyde (29) (6 g, 30.0 mmol) and urea (30) (27 g,
450.0 mmol) was heated to 180 0C and stirred for 5 hours. LCMS showed the reaction was
completed. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature, and the resulting precipitate
was washed with H 2 0 (3 x 500 mL) and co-evaporated with toluene three times to completely
remove the moisture trapped. 6-bromoquinazolin-2-ol (31)(6 g, 89%) was obtained as a yellow
solid. MS (ES+) C 8H 5BrN 20 requires: 224, found: 225, 227 [M + H]*.
Step 4: Synthesis of 6-bromo-2-chloroquinazoline
                           N             Br    pCN                           Br
                       HO    N               11 00 C, 3 h      CI     N
        A solution of 6-bromoquinazolin-2-ol (31) (6.0 g, 26.7 mmol) in POCl3 (80 mL) was
refluxed at 110 0C for 5 hours. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was analyzed by LCMS and
indicated that the reaction had proceeded to completion. Most of POCl3 was removed under
reduced pressure, and the residue was added dropwise to ice water (500 mL). The resulting
precipitate was collected via filtration as a yellow solid (3.5 g, 54%). MS (ES+) C8 H4BrClN 2
requires: 242, found: 243, 245 [M + H]*.
Step 5: Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline
                                                    38

                            Br                  B
                                           HO'    OH
                                                                       N                0
           CI     N                Cs 2 CO 3, Pd(PPh 3)2 Cl 2
                                  THF, H20, MW, 85 0C, 3 h         CI    N
         A mixture of 6-bromo-2-chloroquinazoline (32) (5.0 g, 20.5 mmol), 3,5
dimethoxyphenylboronic acid (33) (3.7 g, 20.5 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (20.0 g, 61.5 mmol) and
Pd(PPh3) 2Cl 2 (1.4 g, 2.1 mmol) in THF (50 mL), dioxane (50 mL) and water (10 mL) was
degassed with N 2 three times, and stirred at 80 0C for 3 hours. An aliquot of the reaction mixture
was analyzed by both TLC and LCMS, which indicated that the reaction had proceeded to
completion. The mixture was cooled to room temperature, and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 200
mL). The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography (petroleum
ether/EtOAc = 8:1) to obtain 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline (34) as a light yellow
solid (2.4 g, 38%). MS (ES+) C16H 13 ClN 2 0 2 requires: 300, found: 301, 303 [M + H]*.
Step 6: Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline
                                                            S02CI2         CI1
                   ~N           1    0         THF, -20 C, 1 h        N               0
               CI     N                                                          CI
                                                                 CI     N
         To a solution of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline (34) (2.7 g, 8.9 mmol) in
dry THF (80 mL) was added dropwise S0 2Cl 2 (3.0 g, 22.3 mmol) at -20 0C, and the reaction
mixture was stirred for an additional hour. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was analyzed by
both TLC and LCMS, which indicated that the reaction had proceeded to completion. The
reaction mixture was quenched with water (1 mL), and the solvents were removed under reduced
pressure. The precipitate was washed with CH 3CN and dried to obtain 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro
3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline (35) (2.6 g, 79%) as a white solid. (MS (ES+) C16H1 1C13 N 2 0    2
requires: 368, found: 369, 371 [M + H]*; IH-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO) 6 ppm 9.67 (s, 1H), 8.168
(d, J= 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J= 2.0, 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (s, 1H), 4.00 (s,
6H).
                                                   39

Step 7: Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-6
nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine
                      C 0                    O2N               ONN
                                                                NH                        NCI O
                                                                   0&                       CI
               N                                                                ::    - /       CI
                          C1            CS2C0 3 , Pd 2 (dba) 3, Xphos       HN     N
       CI    N                              DMF, microwave            0 2N         O0
2-Chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline (35) (100 mg, 0.27mmol), 2
methoxy-6-nitroaniline (36) (57 mg, 0.40 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (176 mg, 0.54 mmol), Pd 2(dba) 3 (25
mg, 0.027 mmol), and 2-Dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl (Xphos) (26 mg,
0.054 mmol) were taken up in DMF (3 ml) in a microwave vial and purged with N 2 for 5
minutes. The vial was capped and heated to 115 0C in microwave for 30 minutes. After cooling
to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and washed with brine three
times. The organic mixture was dried over sodium sulfate and loaded directly onto silica gel and
purified using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient. 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2
methoxy-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine (37) was recovered as a yellow solid (100 mg, 73%
yield). MS (ES+) C2 3 HisCl 2 N 4 0 5 , 501 [M + H]*.
Step 8: Synthesis of N'-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)-6
methoxybenzene- 1,2-diamine
                             O                                                                     0
                       CI                                                                    CI
             N                      Og        H 2 , methanol        ,              N                     O
                          0  CI                                                             -111   CI
         HN      N                                                           HN       N    /
  0 2N           O                                                     H2 N           O
6-(2,6-Dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine                    (38)
(100 mg, 0.14 mmol) was taken up in methanol (10 ml), 10% Pd/C (15 mg) was added. The
mixture was stirred under H 2 balloon for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered through
celite and the solvent was removed to give N'-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin
                                                        40

2-yl)-6-methoxybenzene-1,2-diamine (38) in quantitative yield. Compound 38 was carried on to
the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 23H 20 Cl 2N 4 0 3, 471 [M + H]*
Step 9: Synthesis of N-(2- ((6- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
                                 O                                                      O
                         CI                                                          CI
                  N                  O      acroyl chloride a                N               O
        HN      N       /        CI           DCM,0 C              H HN         N
 H2 N           O                                                  N            O,
N'-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)-6-methoxybenzene-1,2-diamine       (38)
(96 mg, 0.20 mmol) was taken up in DCM (2 ml) and cooled to 00 C, followed by addition of
acryloyl chloride (0.018 ml, 0.24 mmol) and stirred at 00 C for 2 hours. The mixture was loaded
directly onto silica gel and purified by flash chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes
gradient. N-(2- ((6- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methoxyphenyl)acrylamide (39) was recovered as an off-white solid (30 mg, 28% yield). MS
(ES+) C 26 H2 2 Cl 2 N4 O 4 , 525 [M + H]*.
Example 3: Synthesis of COMPOUND 25
                                                   41

                                                      NH2
                         N                   0 2N                              0
                   CI                                                   CI
                         N        .-                      ,N                        O        H2
              /-           C             Pd2 (dba) 3, XPHOS
                                                     DMA 02N
                                                             HN    N           CI
                                                                                       EtOAc/Methanol
      CI    N                              Cs2CO3,
                              O                                                    O
                      CI        s                                            C
           N                      0     acryloyl chloride           N                   0
                             'Ilz                                          -      CI
       HN      N                                                 HN   N
                                          DIEA, DCM          H
 H2N                                      000I
                                          0                  Nb
Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2
amine
                                                               O
                                                              CI
                                             HN       N
                                     0 2 N It
2-Chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazoline (35) (5 g, 13.5 mmol), 2-methyl-6
nitroaniline (3.09 g, 20.3 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (13.2 g, 40.6 mmol), Pd2 (dba) 3 (1.24 g, 1.35 mmol),
and 2-Dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl (Xphos) (1.29 g, 2.71 mmol) were
taken up in DMA (100 ml) and purged with N 2 for 5 minutes. The reaction mixture was heated
to 1 10 C in for 3 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with
DCM (500 ml) and washed with 10% HCl three times (3 x 300 ml) and brine three times. The
organic mixture was dried over sodium sulfate and loaded directly onto silica gel and purified
using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient. 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6
                                                         42

nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine was recovered as a yellow solid (5.5 g, 81% yield). MS (ES+)
C2 3 H1 8C 2 N4 0 4 , 485 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of Nl-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-1,2
diamine
                                                           O
                                                      CI
                                              N                  O~
                                                           CI
                                          HN    N
                                    H2 N b.
6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine           (5.5 g,
11.33 mmol) was taken up in methanol (200 ml) and Ethyl Acetate (100 ml), 10% Pd/C (650
mg) was added. The mixture was stirred under H 2 balloon overnight. The reaction mixture was
filtered through celite and the solvent was removed to give N-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene- 1,2-diamine in quantitative yield. It was
carried on to the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 23H20 Cl 2N 4 0 2 , 455 [M + H]*
Synthesis of N- (2- ((6- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide
                                                             O
                                                       CI
                                               N                  O
                                           HN    N
                                        N
                                     0
N'-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-1,2-diamine (5.16
g, 11.33 mmol) was taken up in DCM (100 ml) and cooled to 00 C, followed by addition of DIEA
(1.781 ml, 10.20 mmol) and acryloyl chloride (1.013 ml, 12.47 mmol) and stirred at 00 C for 2
hours. The mixture was loaded directly onto silica gel and purified by flash chromatography
using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient. N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)quinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide        was recovered as an off
white solid (3.5 g, 61% yield). MS (ES+) C26 H 22Cl 2N4 0 3 , 509 [M + H]*.  H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                   43

DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.53 (s, 1H), 9.23 (s, 1H), 8.68 (s, 1H), 7.82 - 7.65 (m, 2H), 7.51 (s, 2H), 7.21 (m,
1H), 7.12 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 1H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.49 (dd, J= 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.28 - 6.15 (m, 1H),
5.68 (dd, J= 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.97 (s, 6H), 2.19 (s, 3H).
Example 4: Syntheses of COMPOUND 26 and COMPOUND 10
                                                                                                       H2N     N
  O                                           H2N      N           HO'B'OH                                                 NO2
H       N   Br      NHHCI        Et3 N, NMP                                         PdCl 2 (dppf), K2CO3    N                  F
                                                                                     1,4-dioxane/H 20          N       O +
         N      H2N   NH2   MW, 180 C, 15 min
                                                             Br   0          0      MW, 110'C, 30min
                                                                                                                    O.
               NO2                                               NO2  H
    NaH             NYN                      sulfuryl                 N
 THF, 0 C-RT,         N                                                                 C
     O.N.               N                O        2h
                                                  2C,                      N                  0,O
                                                                                Cl
                        Fe, NH 4 CI                                     Fe, NH 4 CI
                        ethanol/water                                   ethanol/water
                        100 C, 1 h                                      100 C, 2 h
               NH2                                               NH2 H
                    N   N
                                                                      N    NC
                       Iacryloyl
                                                                                Cl
                                    Os.                                                 Os
                                 chloride                                acryloyl chloride
                        DIEA                                             DIEA
                        DCM                                              DCM
                          0                                                0
                        0 C                                              0 C
           O   NH   H                                         O  NH
                    N   N                                             N N N
                                         N                                               N.
                                                                                     Cl
Synthesis of 6-bromopyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine
                      0 0              Br             NHHCIN
                                                                                             H 2 N>N
                   H                    Br            NHC11          Et3N, NMP                       N
                                           + H2 N         NH2 MW, 180 C, 15 min                           |
                      F      N                                      '           'N                           /
                                                                                                                 Br
                                                                44

          5-bromo-2-fluoronicotinaldehyde (3.0 g, 14.78 mmol), guanidine hydrochloride (1.69 g,
17.74 mmol) and triethylamine (4.48 g, 44.35 mmol) were dissolved in 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone
(15 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at 180 C for 15 min under microwave. The
mixture was cooled to RT, quenched with water (200 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x
300 mL). The organic layers were combined, washed with water (3 x 50 mL) and brine (3 x 50
mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to afford a crude product, which was
purified by silica gel column chromatography (ethyl acetate:petroleum ether = 3 : 1) to afford 6
bromopyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine (2.0 g, 60 %) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 7 H5 BrN 4
requires: 224, 226, found: 225, 227 [M+H]*.
Synthesis of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine
                                                                     H2N   N
           H2 N     N               HOs   OH
                                        B                                N /
                  N                               PdCl 2(dppf), K2 CO3
                                 N   +                      ~N                         O11
                                NI                  1,4-dioxane/H 20
                            Br     O              MW, 110 C, 30 min
          A mixture of 6-bromopyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine (1.0 g, 4.46 mmol), 3,5
dimethoxyphenylboronic acid (1.2 g, 6.70 mmol), PdCl 2 (dppf) (364 mg, 0.446 mmol) and
potassium carbonate (1.8 g, 13.39 mmol) in 1,4-dioxane/water (4 mL/1 mL) was degassed with
nitrogen for 5 min and stirred at 110 C for 30 min under microwave. The reaction mixture was
cooled to RT, and concentrated to afford a crude product, which was purified by silica gel
column chromatography (ethyl acetate:petroleum ether = 4 : 1) to afford 6-(3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine as a yellow solid (400 mg, 31%). MS (ES+)
C 15 H 14 N4 0 2 requires: 282, found: 283 [M+H]*.
Synthesis of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2
amine
         H2N      N                                                 NO2 H
               N /
                                                                          Ir
                                          N   F      NaH                  N
                  Ns          sOs+THF,0                0 C-RT,
                                                      O.N.                   N           O
                                                   45

        To a solution of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine (400 mg, 1.42
mmol) in THF (20 mL) at 0 C was added sodium hydride (102 mg, 4.25 mmol). The solution
was stirred for 20 mins, followed by the addition of 2-fluoro-1-methyl-3-nitrobenzene (440 mg,
2.84 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight, quenched by water (20 mL) and
extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 30 mL). The organic layers were combined, washed with brine
(50 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to afford a crude product, which
was purified by silica gel column chromatography (ethyl acetate:petroleum ether = 4: 1) to
afford 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine
(310 mg, 51 %) as a brown solid. MS (ES+) C2 2 H19 N5 0 4 requires: 417, found: 418 [M+H]*.
Synthesis of Nl-(6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-1,2
diamine
           NO2 H
                                                               NH2 H
                                                                     NI N
                N'r N
                  N                        Fe, NH4 CI   ,              N
                     N               0    ethanol/water                  NO
                                          100 C, 1 h
        To a solution of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-2-amine (100 mg, 0.24 mmol) in ethanol (5 mL) and water (5 mL) was added iron
powder (110 mg, 1.92 mmol) and ammonium chloride (100 mg, 1.920 mmol). The mixture was
stirred at 100 0C for 1 hour, cooled to RT, filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by
Preparative HPLC to afford Nl-(6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene-1,2-diamine (29.5 mg, 32 %) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C2 2 H 2 1 N5 0 2 requires:
387, found: 388 [M+H];I H-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.30, 9.21 (br, br, 2H), 8.95 (s,
1H), 8.60 (d, 1H, J= 3.0 Hz), 6.96-6.92 (m, 3H), 6.63 (d, 1H, J= 5.5 Hz), 6.55 (t, 1H, J= 2.0
Hz), 6.50-6.48 (m, 1H), 4.79 (s, 2H), 3.84 (s, 6H), 2.08 (s, 3H).
Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-2-amine
                                                  46

            NO2                                                 NO2 H
                        i                     sulfuryl chloride      N  N
                                               THF,0 0 C,  2 h                   C
                                                                            CI
        To a stirred solution of 6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3
d]pyrimidin-2-amine (100 mg, 0.24 mmol) in THF (10 mL) at 0 C was dropwise added a
solution of sulfuryl chloride (0.06 mL, 0.72 mmol) in THF (2 mL). After stirred at 0 C for 2 hrs,
the reaction was quenched with water (10 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 20 mL). The
organic layers were combined, washed with brine (20 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered,
and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (ethyl
acatete:petroleum ether = 3 : 1) to afford 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine (110 mg, 95 %) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+)
C22 H17 Cl 2 N 5 0 4 requires: 485, 487 found: 486, 488 [M+H]*.
Synthesis of Nl-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene- 1,2-diamine
          NO2 H                                                 NH2 H
                SN        NsNyN
                                   Cl           Fe, NH4 CI       x     N /        C
                          NN                   ethanol/water            N              O111
                                               100 C, 2 h
                             CI                                              CI
                                                O~
        To a solution of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-amine (80 mg, 0.168 mmol) in ethanol (4 mL) and water
(4 mL) was added iron powder (75 mg, 1.344 mmol) and ammonium chloride (74 mg, 1.344
mmol). The mixture was stirred at 100 0C for 2 hrs, cooled to RT, filtered and concentrated. The
residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (ethyl acetate:petroleum ether = 4 : 1)
to afford Nl-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene-1,2-diamine (40 mg, 53 %) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C22 H1 9 Cl 2 N 50 2 requires:
455, 457, found: 456, 458 [M+H]*. IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.33 (br. s., 1H), 9.01
                                                      47

  (s, 1H), 9.65 (br. s., 1H), 8.23 (s, 1H), 7.05 (s, 1H), 6.93 (br. s., 1H), 6.64-6.63 (m, 1H), 6.50
  6.49 (m, 1H), 4.80 (s, 2H), 3.99 (s, 6H), 2.09 (s, 3H).
  Synthesis of N- (2- ((6- (3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
  methylphenyl)acrylamide
            NH2 H                                               O   NH
                 N yN                                                     N     N
                                              acryloyl chloride              N
                                               DIEA, DCM                        N             O
                                               0OC
          N-(2-((6-(3,5 -dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
  methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
  product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-50% EtOAc/DCM gradient to give the
  title compound. MS (ES+) C 25 H 23N 5 O 3 requires: 441, found: 442
   Synthesis of N- (2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)
  3-methylphenyl)acrylamide
            NH2 H                                               O   NH
               SNyN                                                       NyN
                    N               I         acryloyl chloride      a       N /         CI
                        NON                    DIEA, DCM                        N             O.
                            CI            Cl    OC                                  Ci I
          N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
  methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
- product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the
  title compound. MS (ES+) C2 5 H 2 1Cl 2 N5 O 3 requires: 510, found: 511 [M +H]*. IH-NMR (400
  MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.53 (s, 1H), 9.35 (s, 1H), 9.06 (s, 1H), 8.70 (s, 1H), 8.27 (d, J = 2.6 Hz, 1H),
  7.78 (s, 1H), 7.23 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (s, 1H), 7.06 (s, 1H), 6.52 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.1 Hz, 1H),
  6.22 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.69 (d, J = 10.6 Hz, 1H), 3.98 (s, 6H), 2.20 (s, 3H).
                                                       48

Example 4: Synthesis of COMPOUND 45
 0 2N      N            CH 3 NH2 in MeOH        02N         N       Fe, AcOH         H2N     N
   CI    N 'CI       DIPEA, THF, -78 0C, 3 h      HN     N    CI   60 4C, 16 h
        0N                                                                                                                     NC I
                                                                                         0N
       S0 2 C1 2
         THFBN
        SO2Cl2,NN    NNHDF THE O               Bu~,
                                                N HDF                    N     0"N + CI           F,+HC
                                                                                                   ti
                                                                                                  Fe'I        ACH          I~NO
                                                                                                                             N             01
                                                0
                                                                 OH                                       4
                                                                                                                  0
         RT,   3days                              C,410tmi                     0            OsN        EtOH,0        HN    N    N     CI
                                                                                           H      relx,2h      H2N
        DIA
        DM                CIB       HN0C   N
                               acryloyl~c
                                 O2N           NCNHON                     choieN                                 N
                                                                            N          0                                                 1
                                 C:Io     N78               D IPEhA, TF       - 0CI      3h        HN           N C
                                                                                                               HC
                                                         CI                        -,
                                       0     -
                                                                                 C 1I
 metrhyla hlmrie     (N             0     N.          mthn.         26 m       o)            eth    a          ,    he mxu        was
Synthesis of 2-chloro-N-methyl-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine
                               02N            NN                CH3 NH2 in MeOH                  02N
                                 CI1      N        CI       DIPEA, THE, -78 OC, 3 h                HN         N <CI
           To188a solution        of 2,4-dichloro-5-nitropyrimidine (5 g, 26 mmol) in THIF (50 mL) was
                       190 foud189 19[M+H.
 reurs
added diisopropylethylamine (3.36 g, 26 mmol ) at -78'C, followed by the dropwise addition of
methylamine (13 mL, 2 mol/L in methanol, 26 mmol). After the addition, the mixture was
warmed to RT and sturred for 3 h. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and
washed with brine (50 mL * 3). The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
concentrated to give the title compound (4.4 g, 100%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES)                                              C 5H15C1N 4 0 2
requires: 188, 190, found: 189, 191 [M + H]'.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-N -methylpyrimidine-4,5 -diamine
                                                                          49

                            02 N      N          Fe, AcOH      H2 N
                             HN     N     CI    60 C,16h          N  N    CI
                                                                  H
         To a stirred solution of 2-chloro-N-methyl-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1.9 g, 10 mmol) in
acetic acid (30 mL) was added iron powder (4 g, 71 mmol), and the suspension mixture was
heated to 60'C for 16 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue
was diluted by brine and ethyl acetate. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was extracted
with ethyl acetate (50 mL * 12). The organic layers were separated, combined, dried over sodium
sulfate, filtered and concentrated to give the title compound (1.1 g, 69%). MS (ES+) C 5H 7ClN 4
requires: 159, 161, found: 160, 162 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of ethyl 2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-oxoacetate
                                             0/                                    0
                    O
                                                         n-BuLi, THF      0
                                     Br.O                -78 C, 4 h  EtO               O
                       O                        Br0
         To a solution of 1-bromo-3,5-dimethoxybenzene (2.17 g, 10 mmol) in THF (15 mL) was
dropwise added n-butyl lithium (8 mL, 2.5 mol/L in hexane. 20 rnoI ) at -7 8C. After stirring
for 50 rnins at -78'C, a solution of diethyl oxalate (4 g, 27 rnmol) in TIF (10 rnL) was added.
The mixture was stirred at -78 C for another 4 h, then quenched with saturated ammonium
chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate (50 mL * 3). The organic layers were combined,
washed by brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified
by chromatography on silica gel to give the title compound (1.7 g, 71%). MS (ES+) C 12 HI 4 0 5
requires: 238, found: 239 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methylpteridin-7 (8H)-one
                                 NOCI                                       N
              o                     H2 N                    AcOH         N       IN
                         O       +                                          N              0AcO
        EtO                O&
                           0N                 N    CI EtOH, 8000,                     N    O
                                       H               48 h                   0
         A mixture of ethyl 2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-oxoacetate (1 g, 4.2 mmol) and 2-chloro
N4 -methylpyrimidine-4,5-diamine (600 mg, 3.8 mmol) in ethanol ( 100 mL) and acetic acid (2.5
                                                     50

mL) was stirred at 80'C for 48 h and cooled to RT (5'C). The mixture was diluted with
dichloromethane and washed with brine. The organic layer was directly concentrated and
purified by chromatography on silica gel to give the title compound (700 mg, 50%). MS (ES+)
C 1 5 H 13 ClN 4 0 3 requires: 332, 334, found: 333, 335 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 8-methylpteridin-7 (8H)-one
                       CI     N                                  CI T N
                                I  N                                N     N CI
                              N              O    S0 2Cl 2 , THF       N
                                                   RT, 3 days
            To a solution of 2-chloro-6- (3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 8-methylpteridin-7 (8H)-one (300 mg,
0.9 mmol) in THF (5 mL) was dropwise added sulfuryl chloride (300 mg ), and the mixture was
stirred at RT for 4 h. The additional sulfuryl chloride (300 mg) was added and stirred at RT for 3
days. The reaction was quenched by 5 drops of water and then stirred for 5 mins. The precipitate
was collected via filtration and dried to give the title compound (240 mg, 67%) as a yellow solid.
MS (ES+) C15 H1 1 C13 N 4 0 3 requires: 400, 402, found: 400, 403 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenylamino)pteridin-7 (8H)-one
                CI      N                                          NO2
                             N    CI            NaH, DMF ,                   N    CI
                                              10 C, 30 min               IN            O
                                         011
                                             Os                             CI
            To a solution of 2-methyl-6-nitrobenzenamine (100 mg, 1 mmol) in N,N
dimethylformamide (5 mL) was added sodium hydride (53 mg, 1.3 mmol), and the mixture was
stirred at RT (10 C) for 10 mins, followed by the addition of 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methylpteridin-7(8H)-one (322 mg, 1 mmol). The mixture was stirred at RT
(10 'C) for another 30 min and then quenched by water. The precipitate was collected via
                                                      51

filtration, washed with cold water and dried to give the title compound (180 mg, 75%) as a
yellow powder. MS (ES+) C 2 2 Hi 8 Cl 2 N6 0 5 requires: 516, 518, found: 517, 519 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of 2-(2-amino-6-methylphenylamino)-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 8-methylpteridin
7(8H)-one
             NO 2 H                                                                  0
                     N       N     CI           Fe, NH 4CI           N      N             O
                                            N CI                                       I
                       N                O      EtOH, H 20,       HN     N   N     0
                                               reflux, 2 h H2N
                          OCI
         To a solution of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-2-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenylamino)pteridin-7(8H)-one (200 mg, 0.38 mmol) in ethanol (50 mL) and water (2 mL)
was added iron powder (210 mg, 3.8 mmol) and ammonium chloride (450 mg, 8 mmol). The
mixture was refluxed for 2 h. The solvents were evaporated, and the residue was diluted with
brine and dichloromethane. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was extracted with
dichloromethane (50 mL * 6). The organic layers were combined, dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered and concentrated to give the title compound (70 mg, 38%). MS (ES+) C 22 H20Cl 2N 6 0   3
requires: 486, 488, found: 487, 489 [M +H].         H-NMR (500 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 ppm 8.83 (s, 1H),
7.09 (t, 1H, J= 8.0 Hz), 6.74-6.71 (m, 2H), 6.65 (s, 1H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 3.85 (br. s., 2H), 3.63-3.59
(br, 3H), 2.25 (s, 3H).
Synthesis of N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-7,8-dihydropteridin
2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide
   NH2 H1                                                                               0
         N H2
                    N    CI           acryloyl chloride                N      N            0
              ~N               o~
                               Os
                               011
                                       DIEA, DCM
                                       000
                                                                H
                                                                 N        N
                                                                              N
                                                                              I     O
                        1~               O                  0   N
         N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-7,8-dihydropteridin-2
yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to
                                                      52

COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-10% MeOH/DCM
gradient to give the title compound. MS (ES+) C 25 H 22Cl 2N 6 O 4 requires: 540, found: 541 [M
+H]*.
Example 5: Synthesis of COMPOUND 39
       N          CO 2Et     MeNH 2 HCI salt            N       CO 2 Et        LiBH 4          N "'       OH        MnO 2
                                              0
   cI       -     cI       DIPEA, CH 3CN, 70 C,    CI           N/       THF/MeOH, 55   4C  CI         N     DCM, THF, RT, overnight
                                 overnight                      H            overnight                 H
                                            O                                             O                                          O
                                                                                            00
   CI                         ON                O  DMF, 105 C, 5 h                    I          MeCN, -20 C, 15 min       IC
                  H             11I                                                     0                 NO                      I
                NH2                                        O                                                         O
      0 2N             0                              CI                                                       CI
                                            N                      0         H2                       N-                  0
                                                                                                                          O-
                                  -I                                     PdC        HCI                Nl
Cs 2 CO 3, Pd 2 (dba) 3, Xphos         HN            N     CI            Pd-C, MeOH                HN         N   0
      DMF, microwave            0 2N                                                        H2N
                                                                     0
                                                             CI
                                                   N               4       ON7
       acryloyl chloride                                 N           CI
         DIEA, DCM                         H
         0 oC                              IN
Synthesis of ethyl 6-chloro-4-(methylamino)nicotinate
                                      N           CO2 Et         MeNH 2 HCI salt                     N         CO2 Et
                                CI         14     CI       DIPEA, CH3 CN, 70C,                 CI              N
                                                                        overnight                              H
To a solution of ethyl 4,6-dichloronicotinate (5.0 g, 22.7 mmol) in acetonitrile (50 mL) was
added methylamine hydrochloride salt (1.84 g, 27.2 mmol) and diisopropylethylamine (14.6 g,
113.6 mmol), and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C overnight. LCMS showed the
reaction was completed. The reaction was cooled to RT, quenched with water (50 mL) and
extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 100 mL). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed
with water (50 mL) and brine (100 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to
                                                                             53

afford the title compound (4.7 g, crude), which was directly used in the next step without further
purification. MS (ES+) C9 H1 1 ClN 20 2 requires: 214, 216, found: 215, 217 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of (6-chloro-4-(methylamino)pyridin-3-yl)methanol
                            N  1,   CO 2Et       LiBH 4              N'      OH
                        CI          N      THF/MeOH, 55 OC      CI         N
                                    H          overnight                   H
To a solution of ethyl 6-chloro-4-(methylamino)nicotinate (4.7 g, 21.9 mmol) in THF (30 mL)
and methanol (30 mL) was added lithium borohydride (2.4 g, 109.8 mmol), and the reaction
mixture was heated at 55 0C overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction
was cooled to RT, quenched with water (1 mL) and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to
afford the title compound (4.2 g, crude) as a white solid, which was directly used in the next step
without further purification. MS (ES+) C7 H 9 ClN 2 0 requires: 172, 174, found: 173, 175 [M +
H]*.
 Synthesis of 6-chloro-4-(methylamino)nicotinaldehyde
                           NC        OH         MnO  2                   N      0
                      CI          N/     DCM, THF, RT, overnight    CI        N
                                  H                                           H
A mixture of (6-chloro-4-(methylamino)pyridin-3-yl)methanol (4.2 g, 24.7 mmol) and
manganese(IV) oxide (active, 25.8 g, 296.6 mmol) in dichloromethane (50 mL) and THF (50
mL) was stirred at RT overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The solid was
filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated to afford the title compound (3.7 g, crude) as a light
yellow solid, which was directly used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+)
C7 H 7 ClN 2 0 requires: 170, 172, found: 171, 173 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 7-chloro-3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl- 1,6-naphthyridin-2(1 H)-one
                                                                                        0
                 N     0                      Oe        K 2C0 3
        CI                     O              O~eDMF,K105 C, 5h CINN
              I      H                                                  C1   XN       0
A mixture of 6-chloro-4-(methylamino)nicotinaldehyde (3.7 g, 21.7 mmol), methyl 2-(3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)acetate (4.5 g, 21.7 mmol) and potassium carbonate (9.0 g, 65.1 mmol) in N,N
dimethylformamide (30 mL) was heated at 105 0 C for 5 h. LCMS showed the reaction was
                                                   54

completed. The reaction was cooled to RT, quenched with water (200 mL), and filtered. The
filtration cake was washed by petroleum ether (50 mL) and ethyl acetate (50 mL) to afford the
title compound (5.8 g, 77%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C18 H 19ClN 2 0 3 requires: 346, 348,
found: 347, 349 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 7-chloro-3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)
one
                               O                                                   O
                                                                            CI
                N                    O0OCl      S02 CI2            N
                                                                   N                    O
                                     | MeCN, -20 0C, 15 min                        CI
            CI         N     0                                 CI          N    0
To a solution of 7-chloro-3- (3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 1-methyl-1,6-naphthyridin-2(1 H)-one (5.6 g,
16.9 mmol) in actonitrile (30 mL) was dropwise added sulfuryl chloride (3.36 mL, 42.2 mmol) at
-20 0C, and the mixture was stirred for another 15 mins. LCMS showed the reaction was
completed. The reaction was quenched with water (1 mL), and the solvents were removed under
reduced pressure. The precipitate was washed with acetonitrile and dried to afford the title
compound (5.01 g, 75%) as a white solid. MS (ES+) C 17 H1 3 Cl 3 N 2 O 3 requires: 399, 401, found:
400, 402 [M + H]*; 'H-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 8.82 (s, 1H), 8.01 (s, 1H), 7.71 (s,
1H), 7.04 (s, 1H), 3.98 (s, 6H), 3.66 (s, 3H).
Synthesis of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-((2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)amino)- 1,6-naphthyridin-2(1 H)-one
                       0              02N       NH 2                                      O
                        CIONO                                                       CI
         N                   0                                            N                    O
     CI          N  ~ CI         Cs 2CO 3 , Pd2(dba) 3 , Xphos                            CI
                 C                    DMA, microwave                 HN           N    O
                                                               O2 N  ~
3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-((2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)amino)-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30.
Synthesis of 7-((2-amino-6-methylphenyl)amino)-3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1
methyl- 1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
                                                    55

                                  0'                                                      0
                            Cl                                                      Cl
                 N                        O/            H2, Pd-C             N                O
                                  CI                    Methanol
             HN'          N     0 CIH                                   N         N    0 CI
                                                                                          C
        02N &                                                    H2N              1
7-((2-amino-6-methylphenyl)amino)-3- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30.
Synthesis of 7-((2-amino-6-methylphenyl)amino)-3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1
methyl- 1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
                              0                                                               O
                      Cl                                                                 Cl
            N                     O           acryloyl chloride                 N                O
                    I     ,CI                                                                 Cl
         HN         N     o CI                 DIEA, DCM                     HN        N    0 CI
   H2 N                                         OC                      N
                                                                     0   I't
7-((2-amino-6-methylphenyl)amino)-3- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/DCM gradient to give the
title compound. MS (ES+) C 2 7 H 2 4 Cl 2 N 4 O 4 requires: 538, found: 539 [M +H].    H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.47 (s, 1H), 8.43 (d, J = 10.0 Hz, 2H), 7.70 (d, J = 12.6 Hz, 2H), 7.22 (t, J
7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (s, 1H), 6.46 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.18 (dd, J
17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 6.09 (s, 1H), 5.65 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.95 (s, 6H), 3.39 (s, 3H), 2.20
(s, 3H).
Example 6: Synthesis of COMPOUND 48
                                                       56

     N         0      H2 Nq      O    NaBH 3CN,AcOH                                    triphosgene, DIPEA   N
  S     N    NH                          MeOH,RT                          H               THF, 0 C - RT      N
                                                            S-    N    NH                                      0    O
                    N                                                                                       NO2 H
  m-PBA          N                  sulfuryl chloride      NCI                  +        NH2     t-BuOK,                   C
                                                                  i     CI      +
 DC M, 00    C      NY N           O DC M, 0 C               N      N           O                  70 oCN                N   O
                               0                                01 I                                                  001
                       NH2                                                0    NH
                                                                                   H
                            H
    Fe,  NH4 CI
     ______                               CINacryloyl         chloride
                                                      ____               -  (Y
 EtOH, H2O, 70 0                                       DIEA, DCM
                                   N           O,      O C                            ,N     N         O
                                     01                                                       0
Synthesis of 5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenylamino)methyl)-N-methyl-2-(methylthio)pyrimidin-4
amine
                                                                                                             0
        N            O        H2N               O          NaBH 3CN,AcOH
        1-     11'-         +                                                     W       N '            N        O&"
   S        N     NH                                           MeOH,RT                                   H
                                                                                     S       N       NH
             1                         2                                                                  3
A mixture of 4-(methylamino)-2-(methylthio)pyrimidine-5-carbaldehyde (1.0 g, 5.46 mmol) and
3,5-dimethoxyaniline (840 mg, 5.46 mmol) in methanol (60 mL) was stirred at RT for 3 h,
followed by the addition of sodium cyanoborohydride (520 mg, 8.20 mmol) and 1 mL of acetic
acid. The reaction mixture was then stirred at RT for another 4 h. LCMS showed the reaction
was completed. The reaction was quenched by 30 mL of IN HCl, then stirred for 0.5 h and
extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 50 mL). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed
with saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine, dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound (crude 1.2 g, 69%) as a white solid, which
was directly used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 15 H2 0N 40 2S requires:
320, found: 321 [M + H]*.
                                                                       57

Synthesis of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylthio)-3,4-dihydropyrimido[4,5
d]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one
                                 O                                 SN
                                                                     yN
                                             triphosgene, DIPEA
                            H                  THF, O 0 C - RT           N
              S     N    NH0
                             3                                             4   Os
To a mixture of 5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenylamino)methyl)-N-methyl-2-(methylthio)pyrimidin-4
amine (1.1 g, 3.43 mmol) and N-ethyl-N-isopropylpropan-2-amine (1.33 g, 10.30 mmol) in 10
mL of THF was added a solution of triphosgene (357 mg, 1.20 mmol) in 5 mL of THF at 0 C,
and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then warmed to RT and stirred for another 5 h.
LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction mixture was quenched by water and
extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 15 mL). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed
with saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine, dried over sodium sulfate,
filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound (crude 1.1 g, 92%) as a white solid, which
was directly used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C16 Hi 8N 40 3S requires:
346, found: 347 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylsulfonyl)-3,4-dihydropyrimido[4,5
d]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one
                                                               0
                   SyN                                              N
                   "I Nx
                                                 m-CPBA          N
                        N     N         O       DCM,0 0 C           N    N      O
                           0                                           0
                             4     0                                5        O
To a solution of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylthio)-3,4-dihydropyrimido[4,5
d]pyrimidin-2(1IH)-one (1.0 g, 2.89 mmol) in 20 mL of dichloromethane was added 3
chlorobenzoperoxoic acid (1.50 g, 8.66 mmol) at 0 0C, and the solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0
>C.  The mixture was warmed to RT and stirred overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was
completed. The reaction mixture was diluted with 30 mL of dichloromethane, washed with
saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
                                                   58

and concentrated to afford the title compound (800 mg, 73%) as a yellow solid, which was
directly used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 16 Hi 8 N 4 0 5 S requires: 378,
found: 379 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylsulfonyl)-3,4
dihydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one
                  o           OO                               0
                   O   N                                     0    N
                                            sulfuryl chloride
                                                                                 CI
                       N    N           0s
                                        O     DCM, OC             NyN                 O
                                      O         /                     OCI
                                           0
                           5       0                                       61    O1
To a solution of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylsulfonyl)-3,4
dihydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1IH)-one (400 mg, 1.06 mmol) in 15 mL of dichloromethane
was added sulfuryl chloride (285 mg, 2.12 mmol) at 0 0C, and then stirred at 0 0C for 3 h. LCMS
showed the reaction was completed. The reaction mixture was diluted with 20 mL of
dichloromethane, washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
concentrated to afford the title compound (450 mg, 96%) as a yellow solid, which was directly
used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 16 Hi 6 Cl 2N 40 5 S requires: 446, 448,
found: 447, 449 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenylamino)
3,4-dihydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1 H)-one
          O                                                      NO2 H
       O                               NO                               N~
                                            NH2 t-BuOK, DMF                 N              C,
                         CI       +
               N                                       70OC                   1N    N           O
                  OCI     /CI
                     6   O              7                                      8
To a mixture of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(methylsulfonyl)-3,4
dihydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1 H)-one (450 mg, 1.01 mmol) and 2-methyl-6-nitroaniline
(230 mg, 1.51 mmol) in 5 mL of NN-dimethylformamide was added potassium tert-butanolate
(339 mg, 3.02 mmol) at RT and stirred for 0.5 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The
                                                   59

mixture was quenched by 80 mL of water, and the precipitate was collected via the filtration and
dried to give the title compound (290 mg, 56%) as a yellow solid, which was directly used in the
next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 22 H20Cl 2 N 6 0 5 requires: 518, 520, found: 519,
521 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of (7-(2-amino-6-methylphenylamino)-3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1
methyl-3,4-dihydropyrimido[4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1H)-one
         NO2 H
                                                                 NH2
              N               C             Fe, NH4 CI                                  CI
                     N >N         r OK EtOH, H2 0, 70 0C                     N     N         O
                        OC
                         01I                                                     O I
                                                                                001
                     8                                                 9
A mixture of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-methyl-7-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenylamino)
3,4-dihydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2(1IH)-one (290 mg, 0.56 mmol) in ethanol (10 mL) and
water (2 mL) was stirred at 70 0C for 20 mins before iron powder (320 mg, 5.60 mmol) and
ammonium chloride (250 mg, 2.79 mmol) were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 70 0 C
for another 6 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The solid was filtered off, and the
filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved by ethyl acetate (30 mL), washed with water
and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by Prep
HPLC to give the title compound (27 mg, 10%) as a white solid. MS (ES+) C2 2 H 2 2 Cl 2 N 6 0    3
requires: 488, 490, found: 489, 491 [M + H]*.'I H-NMR (500 MHz, CDCl 3 )          5 ppm 7.89 (s, 1H),
7.04 (t, 1H, J= 8.0 Hz), 6.69 (d, 2H, J= 7.5 Hz), 6.60 (s, 1H), 4.53 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 3.34 (s,
3H), 2.24 (s, 3H).
Synthesis of N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-5,6,7,8
tetrahydropyrimido [4,5-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide
                                                  60

         NH2 H                                              OINH
              N                           acryloyl chloride           N   N
                                           DIEA, DCM                                   CI
                        N) N,_      O       OC                             N     N          O1"
                       0                                                      0
                       OCI                                                      CI
                    9                                                                 O1
N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-methyl-7-oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrimido[4,5
d]pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3-methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar
to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-10%
MeOH/DCM gradient to give the title compound. MS (ES+) C 25 H 24Cl 2N 6 O4 requires: 542,
found: 543 [M +H]*. I H-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.48 (s, 1H), 8.35 (s, 1H), 7.99 (s, 1H),
7.66 (s, 1H), 7.16 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 7.06 (m, 1H), 6.99 (s, 1H), 6.53 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2
Hz, 1H), 6.22 (dd, J = 16.9, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.71 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.48 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s,
6H), 3.44 (s, 3H), 2.17 (s, 3H).
Example 7: Syntheses of COMPOUND 24 and COMPOUND 6
                                                    61

                        NO 2                                       NO2 H
      N-                      NH2          t-BuOK                   N   NrN                    -          Pd(PPh 3 ) 2Cl 2 , PPh3
CI      /      Br +                DMF, MW, 130 C, 2 h                    N                           Cul, DEA, DMF, 80 C, 2 h
                         ND/- I                                 (5           :--Br       -       O0
   NO2                                                                   NH2
         N NN~                                 Fe, NH  4 CI                     N>N
                     /  N    /         ethanol, water, 85 C, 2 h                   N
                                   0
                                      NH
     acryloyl chloride                       H
      DIEA, DCM
      0 OC                                      N
    NO2                                                                NO2
           N- N-'                               SO2Cl2                      N    N/           CI              Fe, NH4 CI
                                    0    CH 3CN, -20      C, 10 min                                 o  ethanol, water, 85 C, 1 h
                                                                                         Cl
    NH2                                                                  0
            Nr N                                                        AN    HH
             N /               CI              acryloyl chloride                   N   N
                                    O11         DIEA, DCM                            N  /CI
                                                S
                                                OC
                       CI
                               O11                                                            CIl
Synthesis of 5-bromo-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine
                             NO2                                                NO2
        N                           NH2              t-BuOK                           N     N
        N                                  DMF, MW, 130 C, 2 h                           N        Br
          1                  2                                                        3
                                                                    62

To a solution of 5-bromo-2-chloropyrimidine (1.5 g, 7.89 mmol) and 2-methyl-6-nitroaniline
(800 mg, 5.26 mmol) in N,N-dimethylformamide (10 mL) in a sealed tube was added potassium
tert-butoxide (1.76 g, 15.78 mmol), and the mixture was heated under microwave at 130 C for 2
hrs. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was cooled to RT, quenched with
water (20 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 100 mL). The organic layers were separated,
combined, washed with water (50 mL) and brine (100 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered,
and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography (petroleum ether:ethyl
acetate = 10:1) to afford the title compound as a yellow solid (500 mg, 3 1%). MS (ES+)
C1 1H9 BrN4 0 2 requires: 309, 311, found: 310, 312 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine
                                                                        NO 2 H
        NO2                     N      0 --                                  NNy N
             NH    N                 -         Pd(PPh 3) 2Cl 2, PPh 3 ,         N
         /      N  -    Br                  Cul, DEA, DMF, 80'C, 2 h
                                       0
              3                    4                                             5      1
A mixture of 5-bromo-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine (573 mg, 3.0 mmol), 1
ethynyl-3,5-dimethoxybenzene (483 mg, 3.0 mmol), triphenylphosphine (157 mg, 0.60 mmol),
bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II) chloride (210 mg, 0.30 mmol), copper(I) iodide (57 mg,
0.30 mmol) and diethylamine (1.50 ml, 15.0 mmol) in N,N-dimethylformamide (10 mL) was
degassed with nitrogen three times, and then stirred at 80 0C for 2 hrs. LCMS showed the
reaction was completed. The mixture was coolded to RT, quenched with water (20 mL) and
extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 80 mL). The combined organic layers were separated, washed
with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The residue was
purified by silica gel chromatography (petroleum ether:ethyl acetate = 4:1) to afford the title
compound as a yellow solid (460 mg, 39%). MS (ES+) C 2 1 Hi1 8 N4 0 4 requires: 390, found: 391 [M
+ H]*.
Synthesis of Nl-(5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-1,2
diamine
                                                     63

           NO 2 HNH                                                    2
                   N    N                       Fe, NH4CI
                 /   N  /                                    0             N/
                                          ethanol, water, 85 C, 2 h
                     5                                                   6
A mixture of 5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine
(150 mg, 0.38 mmol), Iron (171 mg, 3.04 mmol) and ammonium chloride (246 mg, 4.56 mmol)
in ethanol (20 mL) and water (2 mL) was stirred at 85 C for 1 h. LCMS showed the reaction
was completed. The reaction was cooled to RT, and the solid was filtered off. The filtrate was
concentrated, and the residue was purified by Prep-HPLC to afford the title compound as a white
solid (55 mg, 44%). MS (ES+) C21 H 20 N 4 0 2 requires: 360, found: 361 [M + H].     H-NMR (500
MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 8.76 (s, 1H), 8.50-8.46 (br, 2H), 6.88 (t, 1H, J= 7.0 Hz), 6.66 (s, 2H),
6.57 (d, 1H, J= 7.5 Hz), 6.54 (s, 1H), 6.44 (d, 1H, J= 6.5 Hz), 4.74 (s, 2H), 3.76 (s, 6H), 2.01 (s,
3H).
Synthesis of N- (2- ((5- ((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide
           NH2 H                                                    NH   H
            '      N>N                        acryloyl chloride          N    N
              /'     N/                        DIEA, DCM             /     N /
                                      Os1      0 OC                                        Os1
                     6
Nl-(5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-1,2-diamine was
prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by flash
chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to give the title compound. MS (ES+)
C 24 H 22 N4 0 3 requires: 414, found: 415 [M +H]'. IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.60
9.38 (m, 1H), 8.79 (s, 1H), 8.51 (s, 2H), 7.69 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.15
7.06 (m, 1H), 6.67 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 2H), 6.60 - 6.45 (m, 2H), 6.22 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.71
(dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.76 (s, 6H), 2.12 (s, 3H).
                                                        64

Synthesis of 5-((2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine
             NO2                                                   NO2 H
                                NN
                     N N                          SO2Cl2                N            C
                                        O   CH3CN, -20 C, 10 min
                        5                                                 7     CI
                                   ONI                                               ONs
To a solution of 5-((3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2
amine (50 mg, 0.13 mmol) in acetonitrile (5 mL) was dropwise added sulfuryl chloride (44 mg,
0.33 mmol) at -20 C, and the mixture was stirred for another 10 mins. LCMS showed the
reaction was completed, and the reaction was quenched with water (0.5 mL). The solvents were
evaporated, and the residue was purified by Prep-HPLC to afford the title compound as a yellow
solid (30 mg, 50%). (MS (ES+) C 21Hi 6 Cl 2N4 0 4 requires: 459, 461, found: 460, 462 [M + H]*;.
Synthesis of N -(5-((2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene- 1,2-diamine
           NO2                                                     NH2
                  H                            Fe, NH4CI               NyN
               .-   N-          CI                  ~-                   N-          CI
                     /7      C       0,1 ethanol, water, 85 C, 1 h   /             C   I  O
A mixture of 5-((2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine (150 mg, 0.33 mmol), Iron (147 mg, 2.64 mmol) and ammonium
chloride (214 mg, 3.96 mmol) in ethanol (20 mL) and water (2 mL) was stirred at 85 0 C for 1 h.
LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was cooled to RT, and the solid was
filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated, and the residue was purified by Prep-HPLC to afford
the title compound as a white solid (58 mg, 35%). MS (ES+) C 21Hi 8Cl 2N4 0 2 requires: 429, 431,
found: 430, 432 [M + H]*. IH-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 8.90 (s, 1H), 8.55-8.44 (br,
2H), 6.97 (s, 1H), 6.89-6.86 (m, 1H), 6.57 (d, 1H, J= 7.6 Hz), 6.44 (d, 1H, J= 7.6 Hz), 4.75 (s,
2H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 2.01 (s, 3H).
                                                     65

  Synthesis of N- (2- ((5- ((2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
  methylphenyl)acrylamide
                    NH2                                                                                           0       NH     H
                                    N                                        acryloyl chloride                                               N
                               N                         CI                    DIEA, DCM                                   /            N/                        CI
                                                                 Os1           0 OC                                                                                 N     0Os
                               8             CI                                                                                                          CIi
                                                         Os*                                                                                                      ON,
  N-(2-((5-((2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethynyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
  methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
  product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to give
  the title compound. MS (ES+) C 2 4 H 2 0 Cl 2 N 4 O 3 requires: 482, found: 483 [M +H]'. IH-NMR
  (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.47 (s, 1H), 8.93 (s, 1H), 8.54 (s, 2H), 7.71 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H),
  7.19 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 6.98 (s, 1H), 6.53 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H),
  6.22 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.70 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 2.13 (s, 3H).
  Example 8: Synthesis of COMPOUND 40
                                                                                                                  HN        CO2 Et     POCl 3                    CO2 Et
                             Mel, NaH, THF                            1) (AcO)2 0, (EtO) 3 CH,120 'C, 4 h
                                                                                             0
              E                RT, 48 h       E  2 C0          CO2 Et 2) 30% NH4 0H, 0 C-RT, 2 h                0           OH     125 -C, 12 h CI               CI
              1                                             2                                                           3                                    4
       SN        CO 2Et
                IN__     40% CH3 NH2 in__H2 0          N      C                THF
                                                                      LiAH 4 , TH              N
                                                                                               N           OH MnO 2 , DCM          N11     '    0
                                                                                                                                                O  +
                                                                                                                                                                        O       (2 CO3 ,
                                                                                                                                                                               K203      DMF
   CI            CI      CH 3CN, 50 C, 72 h      CI           HH      O C-RT, 1.5 h       CI                      RT, O.N.    CI             N                        O        105 'C, O.N.
                                                                                                                     H                       HH               0
           4                                             5                                       6                                       7                        8
                                                                                                                               O                                                             O
                                         O                                                                                                                                            CI
                                                                                                                                                                             N     -           0
                                                                                                                                       0
    K2 CO3 , DMF         N                     O     +  0 2N    NH2   Pd2NHN-
                                                                          (dba) 3 , John-Phos                   |                             S02Cl 2 , CH 3CN              |
   105 C, O.N.       CI          I     O                                        1 DMF  C1t-BuOK,          HN            N                     -15 C, 10 min             N            N
                                   CI    N0    ~MW,                                  0
                                                                                100 C,l h
                                                                                                                                                                O 2 NbL
                                  9                           10                                                          11                                                         12
                                                                              CI                                                                         CI
                         CI
                                                                                                         -0
               N        Ni            O    0O 2 , EA
                                          SnCl      h.         HNN      N          0DEDMHN         acryloyl chloride                            N_     I
                                             0
                                          80 C1h               HN           N      0                DIEA,DM                          HCI
                                                                            1C                                                                         riYN
  O2Nb                  12                                H2Nb
5 Synthesis of diethyl 2-methyl-3-oxopentanedioate
                                                                                             66

                     EtO 2 C          CO 2 Et  Mel, NaH, THF EtO2C              CO2Et
                                0                                         0
                                1                                            2
To a solution of diethyl 3-oxopentanedioate (23.2 g, 114.8 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (100 mL)
was added sodium hydride (60%, 4.8 g, 120.5 mmol) at 0 C, and the reaction mixture was
stirred at RT for 30 mins, followed by the addition of iodomethane (7.15 ml, 114.8 mmol). The
reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 48 h, quenched with water (500 mL) and extracted with
ethyl acetate (500 mL x 3). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed with water
(200 mL) and brine (200 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The residue
was purified by silica gel column (petroleum ether: ethyl acetate = 20:1) to get the title
compound as a colorless oil (9 g, 36%). MS (ES+) CiOH 16 0 5 requires: 216, found: 217 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of ethyl 4-hydroxy-5-methyl-6-oxo-1,6-dihydropyridine-3-carboxylate
                                                                   0         HN       CO 2 Et
                                       1) (AcO)2 0, (EtO) 3CH,120 C, 4 h
              EtO 2C           CO 2 Et 2) 30% NH40H, 0 OC-RT, 2 h           0         OH
                        0                                                   0?
                           2                                                      3
To a solution of diethyl 2-methyl-3-oxopentanedioate (10 g, 46.25 mmol) in 1,1'
trioxidanediyldipropan-1-one (400 mL) was added triethoxymethane (38 mL, 231.25 mmol), and
the mixture was heated at 120 0 C for 4 h, followed by the addition of 30% ammonia (600 mL) at
0 0C. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for another 2 h. LCMS monitored the reaction was
completed. The precipitate was collected via filtration and dissolved in dichloromethane (400
mL). The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated to get the title compound (5.5 g,
crude) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C9 H1 1N0       4 requires: 197, found: 198 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of ethyl 4,6-dichloro-5-methylnicotinate
                                       CO 2 Et                           CO 2Et
                                   HN            POC13N
                             0         OH      125 C, 12 h CI            Ci
                                    3                                 4
A solution of ethyl 4-hydroxy-5-methyl-6-oxo-1,6-dihydropyridine-3-carboxylate (5.0 g, 21.4
mmol) in phosphoryl trichloride (100 mL) was refluxed at 125 0C for 12 h. LCMS monitored the
reaction was completed. Most of phosphoryl trichloride was evaporated, and the residue was
                                                      67

dropwise added to ice-water (100 mL). The resulting mixture was neutralized with aq. sodium
carbonate (50 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (200 mL). The organic layer was separated,
combined, washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated.
The residue was purified by silica gel column (petroleum ether: ethyl acetate =15: 1) to get the
title compound (1.6 g, 32%) as a yellow oil. MS (ES+) C9 H 9 Cl 2 NO 2 requires: 232, 234, found:
233, 235 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of ethyl 6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)nicotinate
                          N             40% CH 3NH2 in H20         N     C  2 Et
                      CI         Ci     CH3CN, 50 C, 72 h CI             N
                                                                         H
                             4                                        5
To a solution of ethyl 4,6-dichloro-5-methylnicotinate (2.6 g, 11.1 mmol) in acetonitrile (60 mL)
was added dropwise 40% methylamine in water (689 mg, 22.2 mmol, 60 mL), and the mixture
was stirred at 50 0C for 72 h. LCMS monitored the reaction was completed. The reaction mixture
was concentrated and extracted with ethyl acetate (100 mL). The organic layer was separated,
combined, washed with water and brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated.
The residue was purified by silica gel column (petroleum ether: ethyl acetate = 2:1) to get the
title compound (2.05 g, 81%) as a colorless oil. MS (ES+) CioH 13ClN 20 2 requires: 228, 230,
found: 229, 231 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of (6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)pyridin-3-yl)methanol
                                 SCO2Et                         N         OH
                            N              LiAIH 4 , THF         |
                         CI         N     0 0 C-RT, 1.5 h  CI          N
                                    H                                  H
                               5                                   6
To a solution of ethyl 6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)nicotinate (2.0 g, 8.8 mmol) in
tetrahydrofuran (60 mL) was added lithium aluminium hydride at 0 0C, and the mixture was
stirred at RT for 1.5 h. LCMS monitored the reaction was completed. The reaction was quenched
by sodium sulfate decahydrate (1.5 g) and filtrated. The filtrate was concentrated to get the title
compound (1.4 g, crude) as a white solid. MS (ES+) C8 HIIClN 2 0 requires: 186, 188, found: 187,
189 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)nicotinaldehyde
                                                  68

                                IOH            MnO 2 , DCM       CI/
                                        HI        RT, O.N.       CI,.         N
                                                H                             H
                                  6                                        7
A mixture of (6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)pyridin-3-yl)methanol (1.4 g, 8.0 mmol) and
manganese oxide (2.8 g, 32 mmol) in dichloromethane (100 mL) was stirred at RT for 4 h.
LCMS monitored the reaction was completed. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was
concentrated to get the title compound (1.2 g, crude) as a yellow oil. MS (ES+) C 8 H9ClN 2 0
requires: 184, 186, found: 185, 187 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 7-chloro-3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
                                                                                    O
    N                  ON               O    K 2CO 3, DMF            N       N           0
 CI          N~                      0       105 OC, O.N.
             H                                                  CI           N    0
                            0                                                   _
          7                     8                                              9
A mixture of 6-chloro-5-methyl-4-(methylamino)nicotinaldehyde (3.11 g, 16.8 mmol), methyl 2
(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)acetate (4.25 g, 20.2 mmol) and potassium carbonate (2.8 g, 20.3 mmol)
in N,N-dimethylformamide (100 mL) was stirred at 105 0C overnight. LCMS monitored the
reaction was completed. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and quenched by water. The
precipitate was filtered and dried to get the title compound (5.5 g, crude) as a yellow solid. MS
(ES+) C1 8H17ClN 2 0 3 requires: 344, 346, found: 345, 347 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-7-(2-nitrophenylamino)-1,6-naphthyridin
2(1H)-one
                                                                                         0
                 0
                                    NH2                                                    0
                      0    + 0 2N         Pd2(dba) 3, John-Phos              |             I
    N
                                            t-BuOK, DMF                 HN         N   0
 CI        N   0                            MW, 100 C, 1 h         0 2N
           9                       10                                                1
                                                                                     1
A mixture of 7-chloro-3- (3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 1,8-dimethyl- 1,6-naphthyridin-2(1 H)-one (800
mg, 2.32 mmol), 2-nitrobenzenamine (320 mg, 2.32 mmol), Pd 2 (dba) 3 (100 mg), John-Phos (100
mg) and potassium tert-butanolate (480 mg, 4.64 mmol) in N,N-dimethylformamide (10 mL)
                                                      69

was heated in sealed tube at 100 C under microwave for 1 h. LCMS monitored the reaction was
completed. The mixture was concentrated and purified by Prep-HPLC to get the title compound
(150 mg, 15%) as a brown solid. MS (ES+) C 24 H2 2 N 4 0 5 requires: 446, found: 447 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-7-(2-nitrophenylamino)-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
                                 O                                                    O
                                                                                CI
                N                     O                                 N                 0
                                            S02Cl 2 , CH 3 CN            I
           HN                               -15 C, 10 min            HN       N
 0 2N                                                          0 2N
                           11                                                  12
To a solution of 3-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-7-(2-nitrophenylamino)-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (120 mg, 0.27 mmol) in acetonitrile (120 mL) was added sulfuryl
chloride (185 mg, 1.35 mmol) at -15 0C, and the mixture was stirred at -15 0 C for 10 mins.
LCMS monitored the reaction was completed. The reaction mixture was quenched with water (1
mL) and concentrated. The precipitate was collected via filtration, washed by acetone/petroleum
ether (1: 5) and dried to give the title compound (100 mg, 72%) as a white solid. MS (ES+)
C 2 4 H 20 C12 N4 0 5 requires: 514, 516, found: 515, 517 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 7-(2-aminophenylamino)-3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-1,6
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
                                1.,0                                                0
                           CI                                                 CI
                N                      0     SnCl 2 , EA                                0
                                   CI        80 C, 1 h             HN       N     0 CI
           HN            N     0                                 _
 O2 N                     12                                H2 N           13
                          12                                               13
To a solution of 3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-7-(2-nitrophenylamino)
1,6-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (100 mg, 0.2 mmol) in ethyl acetate (20 mL) was added stannous
chloride (150 mg, 0.8 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at 80 0C for 1 h. LCMS monitored the
                                                         70

reaction was completed. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue
was purified by Prep-HPLC to get the title compound (38.6 mg, 41%) as a yellow solid. MS
(ES+) C 24 H2 2 Cl 2 N4 O 3 requires: 484, 486, found: 485, 487 [M+H]*; IH-NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
d) 6 ppm 8.24 (s, 1H), 7.76 (s, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 7.03 (d, 1H, J= 7.5 Hz), 6.97 (s, 1H), 6.92
6.89 (m, 1H), 6.75-6.73 (m, 1H), 6.57-6.54 (m, 1H), 4.77 (s, 2H), 3.95 (s, 6H), 3.66 (s, 3H), 2.43
(s, 3H).
Synthesis of N-(2-((3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1,8-dimethyl-2-oxo-1,2-dihydro-1,6
naphthyridin-7-yl)amino)phenyl)acrylamide
                               1.,0                                                                   0
                                                         11                                     CI
                                                                                       N                 0
                                      0     acryloyl chloride                                         CI
                                            ClHN                                               N    0 C
       HN               N     0              DIEA, DCM                        H
 H2 N                                          00C                            N
         -613                                                              0          I
N-(2-((3-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 1,8-dimethyl-2-oxo- 1,2-dihydro- 1,6-naphthyridin
7-yl)amino)phenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30.
The product was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography using 0-5% MeOH/DCM
gradient to give the title compound. MS (ES+) C27H           24 Cl 2 N 4O 4 requires: 538, found: 539 [M
+H]*.
Example 9: Synthesis of COMPOUND 42
                                                       71

        NH2 0                                  NH2                                   NH2 CHO                             NH2 C
                  OH       BH 3-THF                     OH      MnO 2                      CHO NBS (1 eq)                         H180         C, neat
                               0
                                                             CH2Cl2 , RT       O      /            CH2Cl 2                                    2 h
   O                  THF,0 C- RT       O
                                                                                                                         Br
         1                                     2                                     3                                    4               5
     NBr                     POCl3                        Br                               Cs2CO 3, Pd(PPh 3)2 Cl 2           N             O
  HO    N           O      130 C, 5 h  CI    NO                 HO,             0O     THF, dioxane, H2 0, 85 C,3h         CI
                                                                     OH                                                  C
          6                                                                 7                                                           8
                                               0                                                            O
                                        CI                                                           CI
                                                                                                                                 H2
     SO2Cl2                                                 Pd2(dba) 3, XPHOS
                                  N                  0                                      N                       0
            0
 CH3CN, -20 C, 1 h          CI      N       O C1              Cs 2CO 3, DMA             HN    N           O C        |         Methanol
                            CI~     N       0 ClHN                                            N           0
                                                                               02N                     10
                        CI                                                                 CI
              IN'                    0
                        '
                                                                                          ~            0N
                      1          CI       acryloyl chloride
         HN      N          0              DIEA, DCM                        HN     N          O
   H2N
                                           0
                                                                         NI         -C
Synthesis of (2-amino-4-methoxyphenyl)methanol
                                           NH2 0                                                        NH2
                                                          OH           BH3-THF                                         OH
                                                                  THF, 0 C- RT
                                                                                               O
                                            1                                                            2
To a solution of 2-amino-4-methoxybenzoic acid (15.0 g, 89.8 mmol) in THF (300 mL) was
added borohydride in THF (450 mL, 450 mmol) at 0 C, and the reaction mixture was stirred at
RT overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was quenched with water
(150 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (500 mL x3). The organic layers were separated,
combined, washed with water (200 mL) and brine (200 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered
and concentrated to afford the title compound. MS (ES+) C 8HIN0 2 requires: 153, found: 154
[M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-amino-4-methoxybenzaldehyde
                                                                            72

                                 NH2                               NH2
                                         OH      MnO 2                  CHO
                         N                    CH 2CI 2 , RT    0O
                                 2                                  3
A mixture of (2-amino-4-methoxyphenyl)methanol (20 g, 131.0 mmol) and manganese oxide (68
g, 786.0 mmol) in dichloromethane (300 mL) was stirred at RT overnight. LCMS showed the
reaction was completed. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue
was purified by silica gel chromatography (petroleum ether:ethyl acetate = 6:1) to give the title
compound (7 g, 35%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C8H 9NO 2 requires: 151, found: 152 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-amino-5-bromo-4-methoxybenzaldehyde
                                  NH2                             NH2
                                        CHO NBS(1eq)                   CHO
                            0O                 CH 2CI2       O
                                                                  Br
                                   3                               4
To a stirred solution of 2-amino-4-methoxybenzaldehyde (6 g, 39.7 mmol) in dichloromethane
(100 mL) was added N-bromosuccinimide (7 g, 39.7 mmol). LCMS monitored the reaction until
the starting material consumed completely. The reaction mixture was diluted with
dichloromethane and water. The separated organic layer was dried sodium sulfate, filtered and
concentrated to give the title compound (5 g, 56%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 8 H 8BrNO 2
requires: 229, 231, found: 230, 232 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 6-bromo-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-ol
                         NH2
                               CHO         0                                    Br
                                                   180 C, neat      N
                   O      y         + H2N    NH 2        2h     HO     N       O
                         Br
                          4              5                               6
A mixture of 2-amino-5-bromo-4-methoxybenzaldehyde (3 g, 13.1 mmol) and urea (12 g, 196.5
mmol) was stirred at 180 0C for 2 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction
mixture was cooled to RT and washed with water (3 x 100 mL). The precipitate was collected
and dried to give the title compound (3 g, crude) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 8 H 7BrN2 02
requires: 254, 256, found: 255, 257 [M + H]*.
                                                   73

Synthesis of 6-bromo-2-chloro-7-methoxyquinazoline
                             N         Br        P        13NBr
                     HO     N          0      13C,5h                CI     NBr
                               6
To a solution of 6-bromo-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-ol (3.0 g, 11.8 mmol) in phosphoryl trichloride
(30 mL) was refluxed at 130 C for 5 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction
was cooled to RT, and most of phosphoryl trichloride was evaporated. The residue was dropwise
added to ice water (100 mL), and the resulting precipitate was collected via filtration to give the
title compound as a yellow solid (2.4 g, 75%). MS (ES+) C 9 H6BrClN 2 0 requires: 272, 274,
found: 273, 275 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazoline
                       Br                      Cs 2 CO 3 , Pd(PPh 3 ) 2C 2
               11,7
                 a        +                                                    N   N       0
        CI     N       O    HO'B
                               B    .O      THF, dioxane, H2 0, 85 C, 3 h
                               OH                                           CI   N     0
                               OH
                                     7                                               8
A mixture of 6-bromo-2-chloro-7-methoxyquinazoline (2.4 g, 8.82 mmol), 3,5
dimethoxyphenylboronic acid (1.6 g, 8.82 mmol), cerium carbonate (8.6 g, 26.46 mmol) and
Pd(PPh3) 2Cl 2 (1.4 g, 2.1 mmol) in THF (10 mL), dioxane (10 mL) and water (2 mL) was
degassed with nitrogen three times and stirred at 85 0C for 3 h. LCMS monitored the reaction
was completed. The mixture was cooled to RT and extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 50 mL).
The organic layers were separated, combined, washed with water and brine, dried over sodium
sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography
(petroleum ether: ethyl acetate = 1:4) to give the title compound (1.1 g, 38%) as a white solid.
MS (ES+) C17H 15ClN 2 0 3 requires: 330, 332, found: 331, 333 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazoline
                                                    74

                                                    S0 2 Cl 2            N                  0
                                                                                            O1'
                      NNO                  0I CH3CN, -20 OC, 1 h                       CI
                                                                     CI     N       N
         CI "N                  O,
                             8                                                9
To a solution of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazoline (200 mg, 0.61 mmol)
in acetonitrile (5 mL) was added sulfuryl chloride (205 mg, 1.52 mmol), and the mixture was
stirred at -20 C for 1 h. The reaction was quenched with water (1 mL) and concentrated under
reduced pressure. The precipitate was washed by acetonitrile and dried to give the title
compound as a white solid (120 mg, 50%). MS (ES+) C 17 H13 Cl 3 N 2 O 3 requires: 398, found: 399,
401 [M+H]; 1H-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.43 (s, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H),
7.03 (s, 1H), 3.98 (s, 6H), 3.93 (s, 3H).
Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxy-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine
                                   0                                                  O
                             CI                                                 CI
                                     I        Pd 2(dba) 3, XPHOS
                N                        0                                N               0
            CI      N           0      I        Cs 2 CO 3, DMA        HN    N       O CI
                                                                02 N ~
                           9                                                     10
6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxy-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2
amine was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified
by flash chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to give the title compound. MS
(ES+) C 24 H2 0 Cl 2 N4 O 5 requires: 514, found: 515 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of Ni-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene- 1,2-diamine
                                                       75

                                     0                                                   o0
                              CI                                                   CI
                     N                 O                H2                N   N             0
                  HN    N          0                 Methanol         HN     N         0
           0 2N    .                                           H2 N             11
Ni -(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene- 1,2
diamine was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The reaction was filtered
through celite to give crude product. MS (ES+) C 24 H22Cl 2 N40 3 requires: 484, found: 485 [M
+H]*.
Synthesis of N- (2- ((6- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide
                           CI                                                         CI
                       N                    acryloyl chloride               N                 O
               HN    N           0           DIEA, DCM             H   HN      N         0
        H2 N                                 0 C                    N
N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-methoxyquinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the
title compound. MS (ES+) C27H 24Cl 2N 404requires: 538, found: 539 [M +H]*.
Example 10: Synthesis of COMPOUND 34
                                                     76

     OH                                OH
 O                 NBS, DCM        j          N       Br      BH3         HO                Br    MnO2, DCM         O                 Br           O
                                                                                                                                          + H2 N )   NH
                                                                             H2 NH'I                RT, O.N.        H2NH2                              2
 H2N                RT, 2 h       H2N         /          THF, RT, O.N.
          F                                  F                                         F                                         F
        1                                 2                                        3                                           4                   5
                                                                                         0~
 180C            N             Br     POC13              N             Br                                    Pd(PPh 3)2Cl 2
   2h       HO      N             reflux, 5 h        Cl                  +    HOBI      N            Cs_2CO__3, THF/H
                                                                                                                  _    _ 0,_ 80 _ C, _3 h
                                                                                                                        2
                         IF                                      IFO
                     6                                      7                            8
                                                                             N                  Pd 2(dba) 3, XPHOS                   NN
        N       N.           0.           S0 2 C   2
                                                                               N    .     0                                          IN        .
               NF                    0                1.        NN.                       0              -l                                           C
                                                                                                    Cs 2CO 3, DMA               HN      N             CI
                                       THF, OC, 1 h         C1N            /        CI
  CI      N
                F                                                         IF                                         0  2
                                                                                                                          N                  IF
                            910                                                                                                 'N.r
                                                         00
                                                  CI                                                                           CI
            H2                     N                                 acryloyl chloride                          IN                          O
                               HN       N       /                       DIEA, DCM                      H HN         N        /
         Methanol       H2 N                  IF                        0 C                            IN                   F
                                      N      12                                                    0
Synthesis of 2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorobenzoic acid
                                              OH                                                 OH
                                         0                N         NBS, DCM                  o                     Br
                                          H2N
                                                                  |  RT 2h
                                                                                       -K      H2 N
                                                         F                                                  F
                                                       1                                              2
A solution of 2-amino-3-fluorobenzoic acid (10.85 g, 70 mmol) in dichloromethane (175 mL)
was added N-bromosuccinimide (12.46 g, 70 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h.
LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The precipitate was filtered and washed with
dichloromethane (100 mL*3) to give the title compound (12.7 g, 78%) as a grey solid, which
was directly used in the next step without further purification. MS (ES+) C 7H 5BrFNO 2 requires:
233, 235, found: 232, 234 [M - H]-.
Synthesis of (2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorophenyl)methanol
                                                                                77

                              OH
                          O              Br      BH3        HO             Br
                          H2N         /      THF, RT, O.N.    H2 N
                                     F                               F
                                 2                                 3
To a solution of 2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorobenzoic acid (14.5 g, 62.2 mmol) in THF (150 mL) at
0 C was added borohydride in THF (1 M, 310 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT
overnight. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was quenched with methanol
(150 mL), concentrated in vacuum, diluted with aqueous sodium bicarbonate (400 mL) and
extracted with ethyl acetate (200 mL*3). The organic layers were separated, combined, washed
with water (200 mL) and brine (200 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to
afford the title compound (13.0 g, crude), which was directly used in the next step without the
further purification. MS (ES+) C 7H7BrFNO requires: 219, 221, found: 220, 222 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorobenzaldehyde
                         HO               Br    MnO 2 , DCM   O            Br
                            H2 N                  RT, O.N.     H2N
                                      F                                F
                                   3                                 4
A mixture of (2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorophenyl)methanol (13 g, 59.4 mmol) and manganese
oxide (31 g, 356.4 mmol) in dichloromethane (400 mL) was stirred at RT overnight. TLC
showed the starting material consumed completely. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate
was concentrated to give the title compound (11 g, 85%) as a light yellow solid, which was
directly used in the next step without further purification.
Synthesis of 6-bromo-8-fluoroquinazolin-2-ol
                                                                    N         Br
                                              0            OC
                                                        1800
                     ';            Br
                                   BrN+H 2 N    NH2      2h     HO             Br
                            F                                               F
                          4                   5                          6
A stirred mixture of 2-amino-5-bromo-3-fluorobenzaldehyde (2.17 g, 10 mmol) and urea (9 g,
150 mmol) was heated at 180 0C for 2 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The
reaction mixture was cooled to RT, and the resulting precipitate was filtered and washed with
water (500 mL *3). The moisture trapped was completely removed by the co-evaporation with
                                                   78

toluene three times. The title compound (2 g, 83%) was obtained as a yellow solid. MS (ES+)
C 8H4 BrFN 20 requires: 242, 244, found: 243, 245 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 6-bromo-2-chloroquinazoline
                                           Br                                 B
                           HO    Nrreflux,              5h   CI     N
                                       F                                 F
                                   6                                  7
A solution of 6-bromoquinazolin-2-ol (9.72 g, 40 mmol) in phosphorus oxychloride (100 mL)
was refluxed for 5 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was cooled to RT,
and most of phosphorus oxychloride was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was
dropwise added to ice water (500 mL), and the resulting precipitate was collected by the
filtration to give the title compound (9 g, 87 %) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C 8H 3BrClFN 2
requires: 260, 262, found: 261, 263 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazoline
                                                                                           0~
                                  0
                   Br
     N                                             Pd(PPh 3) 2Cl 2                                0
            |+HO,             B"                                08               NO
 CI      N               HB             O   Cs 2 CO 3 , THF/H 2 0, 80 C, 3 h    I
               F              OH                                             CI    N
                                                                                     F
          7                       8                                                    9
A mixture of 6-bromo-2-chloro-8-fluoroquinazoline (4.0 g, 15.4 mmol), 3,5
dimethoxyphenylboronic acid (4.47 g, 16.9 mmol), cesium carbonate (10.0 g, 30.8 mmol) and
Pd(PPh3) 2Cl 2 (236 mg, 0.77 mmol) in THF (200 mL) and water (10 mL) was degassed with
nitrogen three times, and stirred at 80 0C for 3 h. Both TLC and LCMS showed the reaction was
completed. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and directly concentrated. The residue was
purified by silica gel chromatography (petroleum ether:dichloromethane = 2:1 to 1:1) to afford
the title compound (2.5 g, 51%) as a yellow solid. MS (ES+) C16H 12 ClFN 2 0 2 requires: 318/320,
found: 319/321 [M + H]*.
                                                   79

            Synthesis of 2-chloro-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazoline
                                                                                   CI
                           N                  o       SO2Cl2      ,      N            N
                         C   N                     THF,0 C,1h         CI   N     /         CI
                      CI      N'                                      CI   N
                                    F                                           F
                                      9                                            10
To a solution of 2-chloro-6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazoline (1.5 g, 4.7 mmol) in dry
THF (40 mL) was dropwise added sulfuryl chloride (1.59 g, 1.75 mmol) at 0 'C, and the mixture
was stirred for 1 h. Both TLC and LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The reaction was
quenched with water (1 mL), and the solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The residue
was washed with acetonitrile and dried to give the title compound (700 mg, 38%) as a white
solid. (MS (ES+) C16 HIOC13 FN 2 0 2 requires: 386, 388, found: 387, 389 [M + H];I H-NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 ppm 9.74 (d, 1H J= 1.0 Hz), 8.03-7.99 (m, 2H), 7.08 (s, 1H), 4.00 (s, 6H).
Synthesis of 6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoro-N-(2-methyl-6
nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine
                                   CI                                                   CI
                                                Pd2(dba) 3 , XPHOS
                                           0                                 N                0
                                                                                              0
                     CI      N          CI        Cs2CO 3, DMA           HN    N/
                                 F                                  0 2N              F
                                 10                                                      11
6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoro-N-(2-methyl-6-nitrophenyl)quinazolin-2-amine
was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by flash
chromatography using 0-100% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to give the title compound. MS (ES+)
C 2 3 H1 7 Cl 2 FN 4 O 4 requires: 502, found: 503 [M    +H]*.
Synthesis of Ni-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazolin-2-yl)-6
methylbenzene- 1,2-diamine
                                                           80

                                    0                                                  O
                              CI                                                  CI
                   N                  O           H2                    N1                 0O
               HN     N                                              HN    N/
         0 2N               F                   Methanol       H2 N             IF
                                                                              12
Ni -(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazolin-2-yl)-6-methylbenzene-        1,2
diamine was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The reaction was filtered
through celite to give crude product. MS (ES+) C 2 3H19Cl 2FN 40 2 requires: 472, found: 473 [M
+H]*.
Synthesis of N- (2- ((6- (2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-8-fluoroquinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide
                                   0                                                    0~
                            CI                                                     CI
                       N0                                                N0
                          N      ~          acryloyl chloride            N                    O
              HN     N                       DIEA, DCM            H  HN     N
        H2 N             1F                  0 C                                 F
                 N       12                                    0      N
N-(2-((6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)- 8-fluoroquinazolin-2-yl)amino)-3
methylphenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The
product was purified by flash chromatography using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the
title compound. MS (ES+) C 26H 21Cl 2FN 4O 3 requires: 526, found: 527 [M +H]*. IH-NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.53 (d, J = 27.9 Hz, 1H), 9.28 (s, 1H), 8.96 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J = 29.9 Hz,
1H), 7.59 (d, J = 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (d, J = 10.8 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (s, 1H), 6.50 (s, 1H), 6.21 (dd, J
16.9, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.75 (s, 1H), 5.68 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.98 (d, J = 4.6 Hz, 6H), 2.19 (s,
3H).
                                                     81

Example 10: Synthesis of COMPOUND 50
                   H
                   N)
                                N--    CI                    N                       HNN
C      N           Boc        C       N           1) TFA, DCM                             N   N
   N                              N__                           _N_
           CI   DIEA, DMFE        N         CI    2)        O                                     CI
       CI       0OC                   N                  O      NH                            N
       1                              N     2                         NH2
                                      Boc                    I                                H
                                                          TFA
                                                          Dioxane
                                                          100 OC
       NCO             O   NH                                                  0    NH
                                  N yN                                               N    N   N
                            -         NCF, CI          1) TFA, DCM                          N        I
     EtN, DCM                         (N               2) acryloyl chloride
                                         N                DIEA, DCM, 0OC                       N
                                      O     NH                                              O    NH
                                                  CF 3                                                 CF3
Synthesis of tert-butyl 4-(2,5-dichloropyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine-1-carboxylate
                                                                H
                                                                N
                                      CI       N                N           CI   N
                                                                Boc
                                           N        CI     DIEA, DMF           N       CI
                                               CI          0OC                   N
                                               1                                 N     2
                                                                                 Boc
To a solution of 2,4,5-trichloropyrimidine (0.475 g, 2.6 mmol) in dry DMF (8.5 mL) was added
tert-butyl piperazine-1-carboxylate (0.51 g, 2.7 mmol) followed by DIEA (0.51 mL, 3.1 mmol)
at 0 0 C, and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. LCMS showed the reaction was completed. The
reaction was diluted with water (100 mL), and the white solid was filtered. The residue was
washed with water and dried to give the title compound (445 mg, 51%) as a white solid. MS
(ES+) C13 HI 8Cl 2N4 0 2 requires: 332, found: 333 [M + H]*
Synthesis of tert-butyl (2-((5-chloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)phenyl)carbamate
                                                                82

                                                              O   NH  H
                         CIN            1) TFA, DCM                   N   N
                               N     CI 2)                                      CI
                                    N0               NH
                             (N )2                    x<O-N
                                                          NH2           CN
                              Boc                                         H
                                               TFA
                                               Dioxane
                                               100 OC
To a solution of tert-butyl 4-(2,5-dichloropyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine-1-carboxylate (0.1 g, 0.3
mmol) in DCM (1.0 mL) was added TFA (1.0 mL) and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. An
aliquot of the reaction mixture was analyzed by LCMS, which indicated that the reaction had
proceeded to completion.. The solvents were removed and the residue was dried on high
vacuum. The crude product was used for the next step without further purification.
To a solution of 2,5-dichloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)pyrimidine (0.3 mmol) in Dioxane (4.0 mL) was
added TFA (0.060 mL, 0.75 mmol) and tert-butyl (2-aminophenyl)carbamate (0.094 g, 0.45
mmol) and the mixture was stirred at 100 C for 24 h. reaction. After cooling to room
temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with aqueous saturated
sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic mixture was dried over sodium sulfate and loaded onto
silica gel and purified using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient containing 10% NH 4 0H to give the
title compound (28 mg, 23%) as a white solid. MS (ES+) C 19H 25ClN 6 0 2 requires: 404, found:
405 [M + H]*
Synthesis of tert-butyl (2-((5-chloro-4-(4-((3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)carbamoyl)piperazin-1
yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)phenyl)carbamate
                        O                                          O
                      O   NH                        NCO         0    NH  H
                                        CI               CF 3                      CI
                                   CN             Et3N, DCM                   N
                               3     H                                      O    NH
                                                                          4        1
                                                                               bN'    CF 3
To a solution of tert-butyl (2-((5-chloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)pyrimidin-2
yl)amino)phenyl)carbamate (28 mg, 0.068 mmol) in DCM (0.7 mL) was added 1-isocyanato-3
                                                        83

(trifluoromethyl)benzene (0.011 mL, 0.082 mmol) and triethylamine (0.015 mL, 0.1 mmol) and
the mixture was stirred at 23 C for 16 h. reaction. The crude reaction mixture was loaded onto
silica gel and purified using 0-50% EtOAc/Hexanes gradient to give the title compound (25 mg,
62%). MS (ES+) C2 7 H 2 9 ClF 3 N7 0 3 requires: 591, found: 592 [M + H]*
Synthesis of 4-(2- ((2-acrylamidophenyl)amino)-5-chloropyrimidin-4-yl)-N- (3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)piperazine- 1-carboxamide
                       0Y   NH                                        0 NH
                                         CI      1) TFA, DCM               N     CI
                                                 2) acryloyl chloride
                                    N               DIEA, DCM, 0C            N
                                  O    NH                                  O   NH
                                      N     CF 3                                    CF3
To a solution of tert-butyl (2-((5-chloro-4-(4-((3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)carbamoyl)piperazin-1
yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)phenyl)carbamate (0.025 g, 0.043 mmol) in DCM (1.0 mL) was added
TFA (1.0 mL) and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was
analyzed by LCMS, which indicated that the reaction had proceeded to completion. The solvents
were removed and the residue was dried on high vacuum. The crude product was used for the
next step without further purification.
To a solution of 4- (2- ((2-aminophenyl)amino)-5-chloropyrimidin-4-yl)-N- (3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)piperazine-1-carboxamide (0.043 mmol) in DCM (0.5 mL) was added
acryloyl chloride (0.004 mL, 0.052 mmol) and DIlEA (0.018 mL, 0.11 mmol) and the mixture
was stirred at 0 0C for 1 h. The crude reaction mixture was loaded onto silica gel and purified
using 0-7% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the title compound (10 mg, 43%). MS (ES+)
C2 5H23ClF 3 N7 0 2 requires: 545, found: 546 [M + H]*
                                                         84

Example 11: Synthesis of COMPOUND 54
                                                                     NO2
                                                        HO            -NH                    NO2H
 CI    N                 N         CI     N                                                        N    N
    C                DIEA, DM      C N                      Cs 2 CO 3             HON                   N
       CI             O0C                 N                 BrettPhos-Pd
                                                                                       O                N
       1                                  N)2               90 OC                                       N'
                                          Boc                                                   3       Boc
                     NH2                                 NO2
                                                                  H1)             TFA, DCM
                     N                  r        N        /        N           2) Et3 N, 0CM
                                      ,N            0                  N            NCO
                 HATU, DIEA
                 DMFN
                                                         4             Boc
                                                                                    CN
                  NO2                                                                  NH2
                                                                                            NYN
                                                                                            N
         H NN 11            ,NH                                                            H
                           N- "*                                             N     & x
    raN,      6-:
 N         0                  N             H2 , Pd-C, MeOH                N    0                 N
                              N                                                                   N
                           O    NH                                                            O      NH
                                                                                       6
                 5
                                N                  O    NH     H                                     N
                                                               N NN
                                                H
                                                N                 N
        acryloyl chloride              NO
         DIEA, DCM,00 C
                                                   0                  NN
                                                                  O     NH
                                                                         N
Synthesis of tert-butyl 4-(2-chloro-5-methylpyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine-1-carboxylate
                                                                  85

                                                     H
                                                     N
                             CI    N                 N          CI    N
                                                     Boc    ,
                                                  DIEA, DMF
                                   CI              OC                 N
                                   1                                  N)2
                                                                      Boc
To a solution of 2,4-dichloro-5-methylpyrimidine (0.75 g, 4.6 mmol) in dry DMF (15.5 mL) was
added tert-butyl piperazine-1-carboxylate (0.9 g, 4.85 mmol) followed by DILEA (0.91 mL, 5.5
mmol) at 0 C, and the mixture was stirred to room temperature overnight. LCMS showed the
reaction was completed. The reaction was diluted with water (120 mL), and the solid was
filtered. The residue was washed with water and dried to give the title compound (1.386 g, 96%)
as a white solid. MS (ES+) C 14 H 2 1ClN 4 0 2  requires: 312, found: 313 [M + H]*
Synthesis of 4-((4-(4- (tert-butoxycarbonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)-5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
nitrobenzoic acid
                                              NO2
                                                    NH2
                                  HO           /                          NO2 H
                  NCI~               Cs2 CO 3                   HO             N   N
                     N               BrettPhos-Pd                   O              N
                     N    2          90 C                                          N
                     Boc                                                     3     Boc
A mixture of tert-butyl 4-(2-chloro-5-methylpyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine- 1-carboxylate (0.15 g,
0.48 mmol), 4-amino-3-nitrobenzoic acid (97 mg, 0.53 mmol), BrettPhos-Pd Admixture (20 mg,
0.015 mmol), and cesium carbonate (470 mg, 1.44 mmol) in 'BuOH (2.4 mL) was heated in a
sealed tube at 100 0C overnight. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc, filtered through a celite
plug, loaded onto silica gel and purified using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the title
compound (75 mg, 34%). MS (ES+) C 21H 26N 60 6 requires: 458, found: 459 [M + H]*
Synthesis of tert-butyl 4-(5-methyl-2-((4-((1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)-2
nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine- 1-carboxylate
                                                     86

           NO2 H                        NH2                               NO2 H
                 N H
                                                                 H     I        N    N
 HO         /      N                    N                        N         /       N
    O   .t                       N                         NON
                                    HATU, DIEA
                        N           DMF                                              N
               3        Boc                                               4          Boc
A mixture of 4-((4- (4- (tert-butoxycarbonyl)piperazin- 1-yl)-5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-3
nitrobenzoic acid (0.075 g, 0.164 mmol), 1-methylpiperidin-4-amine (37 mg, 0.33 mmol),
HATU (140 mg, 0.37 mmol), and DIlEA (0.1 mL, 0.6 mmol) in DMF (3.0 mL) was stirred at
room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc, washed with
aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated brine solution. The crude mixture
was loaded onto silica gel and purified using 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient containing 10%
NH 40H to give the title compound (73 mg, 80%). MS (ES+) C2 7 H 3 8N 8 0 5 requires: 554, found:
555 [M + H]*
Synthesis of N-(4-cyanophenyl)-4-(5-methyl-2-((4-((1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)-2
nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine- 1-carboxamide
                  NO2    H                                             NO     H
                                                                            2
          H              N     N       1) TFA, DCM              H             N    N
          N          -'     N.                         -        N        x      N,
                                       2) Et3 N, DCM
              0                N            NCO          .N       0                N
                               N                                      5N
                   4           Boc                                              O<NH
                                            N
                                                                                     ||
                                                                                     N
To a solution of tert-butyl 4-(5-methyl-2-((4-((1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)-2
nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperazine-1-carboxylate (0.073 g, 0.13 mmol) in DCM (1.0
mL) was added TFA (1.0 mL) and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. An aliquot of the reaction
mixture was analyzed by LCMS, which indicated that the reaction had proceeded to completion..
The solvents were removed and the residue was dried on high vacuum. The crude product was
used for the next step without further purification.
                                                    87

  To a solution of 4- ((5-methyl-4-(piperazin- 1-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-N- (1 -methylpiperidin-4
  yl)-3-nitrobenzamide (0.073 mmol) in DCM (1.5 mL) was added 4-isocyanatobenzonitrile (23
  mg, 0.16 mmol) and triethylamine (0.055 mL, 0.39 mmol) and the mixture was stirred at 23 C
  for 16 h. reaction. The crude reaction mixture was filtered and washed with minimal volume of
  DCM and then hexanes to give the title compound (97 mg, 100%). MS (ES+) C 30H 34Ni 0 0      4
  requires: 598, found: 599 [M + H]*
  Synthesis of 4-(2- ((2-amino-4-((1 -methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)phenyl)amino)-5
  methylpyrimidin-4-yl)-N-(4-cyanophenyl)piperazine-1-carboxamide
                      NO2                                             NH2
                          H                                     N
    N           0             N          H2 , Pd-C, MeOH    N     0
                              EN                                             N
                            0   NH                                         0*NH
                     5                                                6
                                N                                               N
  4-(2-((2-amino-4-((1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)phenyl)amino)-5-methylpyrimidin-4-yl)
  N-(4-cyanophenyl)piperazine-1-carboxamide was prepared using the procedure similar to
  COMPOUND 30. The reaction was filtered through celite to give crude product. MS (ES+)
  C 3 0H 36 N 10 O 2 requires: 568, found: 569 [M +H]*.
  Synthesis of 4-(2- ((2-acrylamido-4- ((1 -methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)phenyl)amino)-5
- methylpyrimidin-4-yl)-N-(4-cyanophenyl)piperazine-1-carboxamide
                                                         88

                  NH2 H
                                                                        O    NH  H
          H     |       NyN                                           H          N    N
          N        /     Nd/                                          N             N
            O
            N                N          acryloyl chloride
                          CN) 0
                          "N             DIEA, DCM,0O         N         0
                            'N'                                                       N'
                         O      NH                                                       NH
                                N                                                        N
4-(2-((2-acrylamido-4- ((1 -methylpiperidin-4-yl)carbamoyl)phenyl)amino)-5-methylpyrimidin-4
yl)-N-(4-cyanophenyl)piperazine-1-carboxamide was prepared using the procedure similar to
COMPOUND 30. The reaction mixture was purified through a preparative thin layer
chromatography to give the title product. MS (ES+) C 33H38 NioO 3 requires: 622, found: 623 [M
+H].    H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.98 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, 1H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 8.21 - 8.07 (m,
3H), 7.93 (d, J = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 7.67 (m, 4H), 6.50 (dd, J = 16.9, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.33 - 6.25 (m,
1H), 5.83 - 5.76 (m, 1H), 3.78 (m, 2H), 3.59 (m, 4H), 3.43 (m, 4H), 2.92 (d, J = 11.4 Hz, 2H),
2.30 (s, 3H), 2.23 (s, 2H), 2.14 (s, 3H), 1.79 (m, 2H), 1.69 - 1.54 (m, 2H).
Example 12: Synthesis of COMPOUND 20
                                                    89

                                0                 ON                            CN
           N NH 2           H       -C        ~       N             NIS (Ieq)   C-          +
                       C            Ethanol                         CH 2C 2      NN
                     N Cl           12000
                                                                                        2N
                                                       I            IH
                                                       -     N                                -N
             OB                                          N   /                                 N
                                                                                   H2
                          Pd(dppf) 2Cl / Na CO
                                       2    2  3
        '    &       NH     dioxane/H 20                       -..      o        Pd-C
                                                                              7N NH3/MeOH     HN
                                                                                                 -.
                   O NH      dHN
                                                         HN                                  HN
                              F                      F                                    F
                                                           F                                   F
                           0
                           HN
                                       N
     propiolic acid
        HATU
         DIEA
         DCM                             ..   O
                                 HN
                                HN
                             F
                                  F
    Synthesis of imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-carbonitrile
                                                      HH                Ethanol      Ct  N/
                                                N                       1200C
    To a solution of 2-aminonicotinonitrile (1.0 g, 8.39 mmol) in EtOH (10 ml) in a 20ml sealed vial
-   was added 2-chloroacetaldehyde (1.611 ml, 9.23 mmol) vial was then sealed and heated to 120
    'C overnight. Reaction was cooled to RT and quenched with 2N Na2CO3, removed EtOH in
    vaccuo and extracted with DCMx3. Combined organics and washed with water then brinex2.
    Dired over sodium sulfate and removed solvent to give title compound as a yellow brown solid
    (1.2 g, 8.38 mmol, 100 % yield) was verified by MS (ES+) C8 H5 N3 requires: 143 found: 144 [M
  >+ H]*
    Synthesis of 3-iodoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-carbonitrile
                                                                   90

                                 CN                             CN
                                                   2CICH
                                                       2
To a stirred solution of imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-carbonitrile (1.2 g, 8.38 mmol) in
dichloromethane (10 mL) was added N-iodosuccinimide (1.89 g, 8.38 mmol). LCMS monitored
the reaction until the starting material consumed completely. The reaction mixture was diluted
with dichloromethane and water. The separated organic layer was dried sodium sulfate, filtered
and concentrated to give 3-iodoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-carbonitrile (1.8 g, 6.69 mmol, 80 %
yield) as a brown solid. MS (ES+) C8H8 1N 3 requires: 269, found: 270 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 1-(3-(8-cyanoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-3-(2,2,2
trifluoroethyl)urea
                                                                         N
                                                                         I|
                                                                             ;._N
                                     O, B O                                 N
            CN                                Pd(dppf) 2Cl 2/ Na2CO3
              rN         -        o          NH     dioxane/H 2 0           HN
               N                              NH         F                HN
                                                  F F                  F
                                                         FF                F
To a mixture of 3-iodoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-8-carbonitrile (100 mg, 373 Pmol), 1-(3
isopropoxy-5-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl- 1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)phenyl)-3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)urea
(90 mg, 224 pmol), PdCl2(dppf)-CH2Cl2Adduct (30.5 mg, 37.3 Pmol) in Dioxane (3 ml), was
added 2M Na2CO3 (0.559 ml, 1119 pmol). The vial was degassed for 5 minutes then capped
and heated to 110 'C for 30 minutes in microwave. After cooling to ambient temperature
reaction was partioned between EtOAc and brine, seperated and organics washed with brinex2.
Combined organics were dried directly on to silica and purified via flash cromatography (0
100% Hex/EtOAc; 12g column). Recovered the title compound (30 mg, 71.9 Pmol, 32.1 %
yield) as a brown solid. MS (ES+) C 20H 18F 3N5 0 2 requires: 417, found: 418 [M + H]*.
Synthesis of 1-(3-(8-(aminomethyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-3-(2,2,2
trifluoroethyl)urea
                                                 91

                                 N                              H2N
                                    ~-N                                   N
                                                            H2    ~
                                                                               Od
                                            OPdC
                                            0 N7N         NH3/MeOH     HN
                                    HN                                HNO
                                  HN
                                  F                                F
                                    F      FF
  1-(3-(8-cyanoimidazo[ 1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)urea
  (0.030 g, 0.072 mmol) was taken up in 7N AMMONIA in methanol (20 mL, 140 mmol) and Pd
  C (10 mg, 0.094 mmol) added. Reaction was stirred under H 2 balloon for 1 hour. Mixture was
  then filtered through celite and solvent removed. Residue was dried under high vacuum
  overnight to to give title compound as a yellow solid (0.026 g, 0.062 mmol, 86 % yield). MS
  (ES+) C2 0 H2 2 F3 N 5O2 requires: 421, found: 422 [M + H]*.
  Synthesis of N-((3-(3-isopropoxy-5-(3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)ureido)phenyl)imidazo[1,2
  a]pyridin-8-yl)methyl)propiolamide
                              H2N
                                                                     HN
                                        N                                   -N
                                     N           propiolic acid
                                                    HATU                  N
                                                     DIEA
                                                     DCM                        0
                                    HN
                                   HN                                     HN
                                          F                              HN
                                F
                                                                       F
                                     )F     FF
  To a solution of 1-(3-(8-(aminomethyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-3
  (2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)urea (26 mg, 0.062 mmol) in DCM (3 ml) was added DIEA (0.075 ml,
  0.432 mmol) and HATU (35.2 mg, 0.093 mmol) and finally propiolic acid (4.95       l, 0.080
  mmol). Reaction was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Reaction was loaded directly
- onto silica column and purified by flash chromatography (0-10% CH2Cl2/MeOH) to give the
  title compound (19 mg, 0.040 mmol, 65.0 % yield) as an off white solid. MS (ES+)
  C2 3 H 22 F3 N 5O 3 requires: 473, found: 474 [M + H]*. I H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.34 (s,
                                                          92

1H), 8.92 (s, 1H), 8.47 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (s, 1H), 7.17 (d, J= 1.9 Hz, 2H), 7.10 (s, 1H),
6.98 (s, 1H), 6.82 (s, 1H), 6.74 (s, 1H), 4.69 - 4.58 (m, 2H), 3.93 (dd, J                     9.7, 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.72
- 2.64 (m, 1H), 1.30 - 1.19 (m, 6H).
Example 13: Synthesis of COMPOUND 21
                                                                   HO'B' OH
  CI            N      NIS               CI                             PPNH2         CIN
           N_/
           .           DMVF                   -~N/CS
                                                                          2 C03             -.
                                                                        Pd(PtB U3)2
                                                                        THF/H 2 0
                                                                        110 OC
                                                                                                H2 N
 1) DIEA, THF, 60 0 C
                                                                   B,10             0   NH 2
                             CI           -N             H2 N                                     -N
        0       O    C
 02N c       r0                         N/
                   0
 2) DIEA, THF, 60 C                             -             Cs 2 CO 3
                                                              Pd(PBU3)2
                                                                                                    /
                                       HN                     THF/H 20                          HN
     H2N      CF3
               H2 N-                         0F               12500                               >
                                     HNO2                                                    HN
                                  F                                                       F
                                       F                                                        F
                                                     0
                                                       NH
                       acryloyl chloride                  N
                             DIEA
                             DCM
                                                            HN
                                                           HN
                                                        FF
                                                             F
Synthesis of 7-chloro-3-iodoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine
                             CI                           NIS                  CI ,
                                                              93I
                                                              93

7-chloro-3-iodoimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine was prepared using the procedure described in
W02008078091. MS (ES+) C7 H4 ClIN 2 requires: 278, found: 279 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of 3-(7-chloroimidazo [1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)aniline
                                          HO' B'OH
                                 _N                                        N
                                                                CI        N
                                               Cs2CO3H2
                  CI
                                               Pd(PtBu 3)2
                                               THF/H 20                    /
                                               110 0C
                                                                      H2 N
3-(7-chloroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)aniline was prepared using the procedure described in
W02008078091. MS (ES+) C 13 HioClN 3 requires: 243, found: 244 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of 1-(3-(7-chloroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)phenyl)-3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)urea
                                       1) DIEA, THF, 60 0C
               CI                      O2             O    CI      CI         N
                            N _0        2N               0N
                                                         0
                                      2) DIEA, THF, 60 0C
                       H2 N                 H2 N     CF3                   HN
                                                                         HN
                                                                       F
                                                                           F
To a solution of 3-(7-chloroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)aniline (0.15 mmol) in THF (1.5 mL) was
added 4-nitrophenyl carbonochloridate (30 mg, 0.15 mmol) and DIlEA (0.036 mL, 0.225 mmol).
The mixture was heated at 60 0C for 6h. To the crude carbamate was added DIlEA (0.036 mL,
0.225 mmol) and 2,2,2-trifluoroethan-1-amine (0.014 mL, 0.18 mmol) and the solution was
heated at 60 0C overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and water. The
separated organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The crude
mixture was purified by flash chromatography (0-6% MeOH/DCM) to give the title compound
(38 mg, 69 % yield). MS (ES+) C16H 12ClF 3N 40 requires: 368, found: 369 [M +H]*.
                                                  94

Synthesis of 1-(3-(7-(2-aminophenyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)phenyl)-3-(2,2,2
trifluoroethyl)urea
                                                                        NH 2
                                             OB O.
               C I         N            H2N                                    N
                                            Cs 2 CO3
                                            Pd(PtBu 3)2
                        HN                  THF/H 20                         HN
                              _-O           125 0C                               O
                       HN                                                   HN
                     F                                                   F
                        F                                                    F
To a mixture of 1-(3-(7-chloroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl)phenyl)-3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)urea
(20 mg, 0.052 mmol), 2-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)aniline (15 mg, 0.066
mmol) and cesium carbonate (51 mg, 0.156 mmol) in THF/H 20 mixture (2/1, 0.75 ml) was
added Pd(Pt Bu3 ) 2 (3 mg, 0.005 mmol). The vial was degassed for 5 minutes then capped and
heated to 125 'C for 20 minutes in a microwave. After cooling to ambient temperature, the
reaction mixture was filtered through a celite pad and purified via flash cromatography (0-10%
MeOH/DCM gradient containing 10% NH 40H) to yield the title compound (20 mg, 90 % yield).
MS (ES+) C2 2 Hi 8F3 N 50 requires: 425, found: 426 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of N-(2-(3-(3-(3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)ureido)phenyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-7
yl)phenyl)acrylamide
                                                  95

                                                                   0
                         NH2                                          NH
                                 N                                             N
                               N            acryloyl chloride               N/
                                                  DIEA
                                                  DCM-
                              HN                                           HN
                             HN                                           HN
                           F
                          F                                            FF
                              F                                            F
N-(2-(3-(3-(3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)ureido)phenyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-7-yl)phenyl)acrylamide
was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by
preparative thin layer chromatographyusing 0-10% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the title
compound. MS (ES+) C 25 H 20F 3 N5 O2 requires: 479, found: 480 [M +H]*.
Example 14: Synthesis of COMPOUND 38
Synthesis of N-(2-(3-(3-isopropoxy-5-(3-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)ureido)phenyl)imidazo[1,2
a]pyridin-7-yl)phenyl)acrylamide
                                                               0
              /      NH2                                          NH
                              N                                            N
                                        NN
                                             acryloyl chloride          N
                                      o         DIEA,DCM
                                                                                 O
                          HN                    OC
                                                                       HN
                        HN                                                  O
                                                                     SHN
                      FF                                            F
                                      FI                             F
N-(2-(3- (3-isopropoxy-5- (3- (2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)ureido)phenyl)imidazo [1,2-a]pyridin-7
yl)phenyl)acrylamide was prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product
                                                    96

was purified by HPLC using 5-70% Acetonitrile/water +0.1% formic acid gradient to give the
title compound as a formate salt. MS (ES+) C 28H26 F 3N 5 O 3 requires: 537, found: 538 [M +H]*.
Example 15: Synthesis of COMPOUND 11
                       HNO                                       2
                                                             N     NH2
                                                                                NO2 H
 CI     N                    NHBoc  CI   N                                           N    PN
                       DIEA, DMF       N  /                Cs 2 CO3                     N   /
        CI             0 0C              N                 BrettPhos-Pd                    N
                                                           tBuOH
                                               NHBoc       900                                  NHBoc
                               NO                                           NH2
    1) TFA, DCM                    N<N             H 2, Pd-C, MeOH               N    N
    2) Et 3N, DCM                   N                                              N
       0                               N                                              N
                                             HO                                              IO
                                       O    NH   H
              acryloyl chloride                  N    N
               DIEA, DCM, 0 C
                                                   N
                                                      N
                                                        UNH
                                                            S,'
                                                                0
Synthesis of tert-butyl (1-(2-chloropyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)carbamate
                                                      97

                                               H
                                               N
                          CI     N                  NHBoc CI    N
                                               DIEA, DMF
                                 CI           0OC               N
                                                                     NH Boc
tert-butyl (1-(2-chloropyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)carbamate was prepared using the procedure
similar to COMPOUND 54 using 2,4-dichloropyrimidine and tert-butyl piperidin-3-ylcarbamate.
MS (ES+) C 14 H 2 1 ClN4 0 2 requires: 312, found: 313 [M + H]*
Synthesis of tert-butyl (1-(2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)carbamate
                                          NO2
                                                NH2
                                                                NO2
              CI                        Cs2CO3
                     N                  BrettPhos-Pd                       N
                                        tBuOH
                           NHBoc        900                                    NHBoc
tert-butyl (1-(2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)carbamate was prepared
using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 54 using 2-nitroaniline. MS (ES+) C2 0 H2 6N 6 O4
requires: 414, found: 415 [M + H]*
Synthesis of N-(1-(2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)propane-1
sulfonamide
                  NO 2 H                     1) TFA, DCM         NO 2 H
                      SN>N                                            NPN
                           x    N            2) Et3N, DCM               N
                                                  0
                               N                O    --                     N
                                                  SHCI
                                                                                ' 0
                                                                                S*O
To a solution tert-butyl (1-(2-((2-nitrophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)carbamate
(0.14 g, 0.34 mmol) in DCM (2.0 mL) was added TFA (1.0 mL) and the mixture was stirred for
1 h. An aliquot of the reaction mixture was analyzed by LCMS, which indicated that the reaction
                                                     98

had proceeded to completion.. The solvents were removed and the residue was dried on high
vacuum. The crude product was used for the next step without further purification.
To a solution of 4-(3-aminopiperidin-1-yl)-N-(2-nitrophenyl)pyrimidin-2-amine       (0.34 mmol) in
DCM (3.5 mL) at 0 C was added propane-1-sulfonyl chloride (0.045 mL, 0.4 mmol) and
triethylamine (0.12 mL, 0.85 mmol) and the mixture was warmed to room temperature
overnight. The crude reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography
(0-7.5% MeOH/DCM) to give the title compound (36 mg, 24 % yield). MS (ES+) C18 H 2 4 N6 O4 S
requires: 420, found: 421 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of N-(1-(2-((2-aminophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)propane-1
sulfonamide
                   NO2 HNH                                            2  H
                        N , NH
                                        2 , Pd-C, MeOH
                     &HH                                                 N   N
                            N                                                N
                                   O                                             S O
                                SC
                                 S10                                              1*O
N-(1-(2-((2-aminophenyl)amino)pyrimidin-4-yl)piperidin-3-yl)propane-1-sulfonamide         was
prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The reaction was filtered through
celite to give crude product. MS (ES+) C 18 H26 N 6 O2 S requires: 390, found: 391 [M +H]*.
Synthesis of N-(2-((4-(3-(propylsulfonamido)piperidin-1-yl)pyrimidin-2
yl)amino)phenyl)acrylamide
                    NH2 H                                       O   NH   H
                        N   N           acryloyl chloride                N   N
                          I              DIEA, DCM,0 0 C                   N
                            N                                              N
                              N                                                N
N-(2-((4-(3-(propylsulfonamido)piperidin-1-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)phenyl)acrylamide        was
prepared using the procedure similar to COMPOUND 30. The product was purified by
                                                   99

preparative thin layer chromatographyusing 0-6% MeOH/DCM gradient to give the title
compound. MS (ES+) C2 1 H 2 8N 6 O 3 S requires: 444, found: 445 [M +H]*.
Example 16: Synthesis of COMPOUND 52
                                  H
                             N                                              N    N
                                N
                         HN                                     O           N     \    N
                      0
                                     Y                            I
                                                                    ~0   HN
                                                                            H)<O
                            HN
                               _'
        The starting material 1-(tert-butyl)-3- (2- ((4- (diethylamino)butyl)amino)-6- (3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7-yl)urea (PD173074) can be purchased from, e.g.,
SelleckChem.com. In a dried vessel, acryloyl chloride (2 equiv.) and diisopropylethylamine (4.3
equiv.) are added to a solution of 1-(tert-butyl)-3- (2-((4- (diethylamino)butyl)amino)-6-(3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7-yl)urea (1 equiv.) in anhydrous dichloromethane at
00 C. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, the reaction mixture is concentrated, diluted
with DMSO and purified by reverse phase HPLC (5-95% water/acetonitrile). After
concentrating the fractions, the product N-(7-(3-(tert-butyl)ureido)-6-(3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-N-(4-(diethylamino)butyl)acrylamide            is obtained
as a pale yellow foam. LCMS (M+1) = 578.2.
Example 17: Synthesis of COMPOUND 55
                                                  100

                    O                          HH
                                                                            N
                    HN
                                                                        N
                                                      N   N             N        N
                                                                ci
                                                                   HN
                                                                          0
                                                          UNHNN
                                                                              \   N
                                                           .0         N)
        In a dried vessel, sulfuryl chloride (2 equiv.) is added to a solution of 1-(tert-butyl)-3-(2
((4-(diethylamino)butyl)amino)-6- (3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3-d]pyrimidin-7-yl)urea (1
equiv.) in anhydrous acetonitrile at 00 C. After stirring for 2 hours, the reaction mixture is diluted
with dichloromethane and washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The
crude product, 1-(tert-butyl)-3-(6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-((4
(diethylamino)butyl)amino)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7-yl)urea, is used in the next step without
further purification.
        In a dried vessel, acryloyl chloride (2 equiv.) and diisopropylethylamine (4.3 equiv.) are
added to a solution of the product obtained above (1 equiv.) in anhydrous dichloromethane at
00 C. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, the reaction mixture is concentrated, diluted
with DMSO and purified by reverse phase HPLC (5-95% water/acetonitrile). After drying on
high vacuum, the product N-(7-(3-(tert-butyl)ureido)-6-(2,6-dichloro-3,5
dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-yl)-N-(4-(diethylamino)butyl)          acrylamide is
obtained as a yellow foam. LCMS (M+1) = 646.3.
        Similar procedures to the ones above can be used to prepare other compounds disclosed
herein.
                                                  101

     IH NMR and LCMS data for Compounds 1 to 55 is summarized below.
 Compound
    Id                                       NMR                                   MS
            H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.60 (s, 1H), 8.48 (s, 1H), 8.355 (m,
COMPOUND   1H), 7.93 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (br s, 2H), 6.76 (dd, J = 16.0, 8.0 350
1          Hz, 1H), 6.58 (br s, 1H), 6.23 (d, J = 16.0 Hz, 1H), 5.655 (d, J = 12.0
           Hz, 1H), 3.84 (s, 6H), 3.53 (s, 3H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                   358
2
COMPOUND
                                                                                   381
3
COMPOUND
                                                                                   382
4
COMPOUND
                                                                                   384
5
            H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 5 9.60 - 9.38 (m, 1H), 8.79 (s, 1H),
COMPOUND   8.51 (s, 2H), 7.69 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.15
           7.06 (m, 1H), 6.67 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 2H), 6.60 - 6.45 (m, 2H), 6.22 (dd,  415
6          J = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.71 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.76 (s, 6H),
           2.12 (s, 3H).
            H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.61 (s, 1H), 8.05 (d, J = 4.0 Hz,
COMPOUND   1H), 7.96 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (dd, J = 8.0, 4.0 Hz, 1H), 7.05 (s, 418
7          1H), 6.79 (dd, J = 16.0. 12.0 Hz, 1H), 6.22 (dd, J = 16.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H),
           5.65 (dd, J = 12.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H), 3.98 (s, 6H), 3.53 (s, 3H).
                                                102

COMPOUND
8                                                                                  420
         'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.56 (s, 1 H), 9.30 (s, 1 H), 8.71 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.22 - 8.04 (m, 3H), 8.03 - 7.87 (m, 2H), 7.64 (m, 2H), 7.52
         7.38 (m, 2H), 7.29 - 7.08 (m, 2H), 6.48 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H),      442
9
         6.21 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1 H), 5.67 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 2.18
         (s, 3H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.57 (s, 1 H), 9.30 (br s, 2H), 8.98 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.64 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 7.76 (s, 1 H), 7.24 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H),
         7.14 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (d, J = 2.2 Hz, 2H), 6.56 (t, J = 2.2 Hz,  442
10
         1H), 6.51 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.22 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1H),
         5.68 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.84 (s, 6H), 2.18 (s, 3H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                   445
11
COMPOUND
                                                                                   449
12
COMPOUND
                                                                                   449
13
COMPOUND
                                                                                   452
14
COMPOUND
                                                                                   457
15
                                              103

COMPOUND
16
         4H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.66 (s, 1 H), 9.27 (s, 1 H), 8.86 (s,
         1 H), 8.03 - 7.96 (m, 1H), 7.91 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.81
COMPOUND - 7.76 (m, 1H), 7.53 (dd, J = 19.0, 6.9 Hz, 1H), 7.41 (d, J = 7.8 Hz,
         1 H), 7.37 - 7.30 (m, 2H), 6.56 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1 H), 6.24 (dd, J  457
17
         = 17.0, 1.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.20 - 6.14 (m, 1 H), 6.06 (dd, J = 17.2, 2.3 Hz,
         1 H), 5.71 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.59 (dd, J = 10.0, 2.3 Hz, 1H),
         2.32 (s, 3H).
         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.53 (d, J = 9.6 Hz, 1H), 9.25 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.71 (s, 1H), 7.89 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.78 - 7.61 (m, 2H), 7.53
         (s, 1H), 7.42 (dd, J = 9.0, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.18 (m, 2H), 7.13 (d, J   463
17A
         = 7.5 Hz, 1 H), 6.49 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.21 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.1
         Hz, 1H), 5.67 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 2.19 (s, 3H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                    47
18
COMPOUND
                                                                                    472
19
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.34 (s, 1 H), 8.92 (s, 1 H), 8.47 (d, J
COMPOUND = 6.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.74 (s, 1H), 7.17 (d, J = 1.9 Hz, 2H), 7.10 (s, 1 H),     474
20       6.98 (s, 1 H), 6.82 (s, 1 H), 6.74 (s, 1H), 4.69 - 4.58 (m, 2H), 3.93 (dd,
         J = 9.7, 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.72 - 2.64 (m, 1 H), 1.30 - 1.19 (m, 6H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                    480
21
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.46 (s, 1 H), 9.09 (s, 1 H), 8.77 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.85 (s, 1H), 7.57 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.45 (dd, J = 8.8, 7.4 Hz,   481
22       1 H), 7.27 - 7.04 (m, 3H), 6.51 (s, 1 H), 6.21 (d, J = 17.7 Hz, 1 H), 5.68
         (d, J = 10.2 Hz, 1H), 3.26 (s, 3H), 2.21 (s, 3H).
                                                104

COMPOUND
23                                                                                   483
         1
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.47 (s, 1 H), 8.93 (s, 1 H), 8.54 (s,
COMPOUND 2H), 7.71 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1 H), 7.19 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (d, J = 7.4
         Hz, 1H), 6.98 (s, 1H), 6.53 (dd, J = 17.0,10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.22 (dd, J =       483
24
         17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.70 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 2.13
         (s, 3H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 9.53 (s, 1 H), 9.23 (s, 1 H), 8.68 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.82 - 7.65 (m, 2H), 7.51 (s, 2H), 7.21 (m, 1H), 7.12 (d, J= 6.8      509
25       Hz, 1H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.49 (dd, J= 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.28 - 6.15
         (m, 1H), 5.68 (dd, J= 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.97 (s, 6H), 2.19 (s, 3H).
         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.53 (s, 1 H), 9.35 (s, 1 H), 9.06 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.70 (s, 1H), 8.27 (d, J = 2.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.78 (s, 1H), 7.23 (d, J =
         7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (s, 1H), 7.06 (s, 1H), 6.52 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.1 Hz,       511
26
         1 H), 6.22 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.69 (d, J = 10.6 Hz, 1H), 3.98
         (s, 6H), 2.20 (s, 3H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                     513
27
COMPOUND
                                                                                     523
28
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.28 (s, 1 H), 9.20 (s, 1 H), 8.87 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.80 - 7.70 (m, 1H), 7.63 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1 H), 7.54 (s, 2H), 7.22    523
29       (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 5.63 (s, 1 H),
         5.37 (s, 1 H), 3.97 (s, 6H), 2.24 (s, 3H), 1.80 (s, 3H).
         1
          H-NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ppm 9.59 (s, 1 H), 9.29 (s, 1 H), 7.80 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.59 (br. s., 4H), 7.28 (t, 1H, J = 28 Hz), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.94 (d,    525
30       1 H, J= 8 Hz), 6.53-6.47 (m, 1 H), 6.22 (d, 1H, J= 16 Hz), 5.69 (d,
         1 H, J= 8 Hz), 3.97 (s, 6H), 3.72 (s, 3H).
         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.75 (s, 1 H), 8.72 (s, 1 H), 8.51 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.76 (s, 1H), 7.73 - 7.59 (m, 2H), 7.19 (dtd, J = 23.6, 7.5, 1.6
         Hz, 2H), 6.98 (s, 1H), 6.53 (s, 1H), 6.48 (dd, J = 17.1, 10.1 Hz, 1H),      525
31
         6.25 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.76 - 5.69 (m, 1H), 3.96 (s, 6H),
         3.47 (s, 3H).
                                               105

COMPOUND
32                                                                                  527
         1
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.52 (s, 1 H), 9.20 (s, 1 H), 8.79 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.75 - 7.68 (m, 1H), 7.63 (t, J = 7.7 Hz, 1 H), 7.48 (s, 2H), 7.10
         (t, J = 9.0 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (s, 1 H), 6.41 (dd, J = 17.0,10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.15  527
33
         (dd, J = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.63 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.92 (s,
         6H), 2.03 (m, 3H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 5 9.53 (d, J = 27.9 Hz, 1 H), 9.28 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.96 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J = 29.9 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (d, J = 1.7 Hz, 1H),
         7.49 (d, J = 10.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.02 (s, 1H), 6.50 (s, 1H), 6.21 (dd, J =      527
34
         16.9, 2.1 Hz, 1 H), 5.75 (s, 1 H), 5.68 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.98
         (d, J = 4.6 Hz, 6H), 2.19 (s, 3H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 9.63 (s, 1 H), 9.25 (s, 1 H), 8.90 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.01 (dd, J= 7.4, 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.76 (t, J= 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.54 (br.s,
         2H), 7.41 - 7.28 (m, 2H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.56 (dd, J= 17.0, 10.2 Hz,        529
35
         1 H), 6.24 (dd, J= 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.71 (dd, J= 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H),
         3.97 (s, 6H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 11.11 (s, 1H), 10.27 (s, 1H), 9.79 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 8.91 (s, 1H), 7.93 (d, J = 11.0, 1H), 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.20 (d, J = 8.1
         Hz, 1H), 7.11 (m, 2H), 6.97 (s, 1H), 6.70 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.1 Hz, 1H),     531
36
         6.33 (dd, J = 16.9, 1.8 Hz, 1 H), 5.85 (dd, J = 10.3,1.8 Hz, 1H), 4.54
         (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 6H).
         4H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.76 (s, 1 H), 9.31 (s, 1 H), 9.00 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.80 (s, 1H), 7.68 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.53 - 7.42 (m, 1 H), 7.02 (s,    531
37       1H), 6.93 (s, 2H), 6.51 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.31 - 6.21 (m,
         1 H), 5.74 (d, J = 10.2 Hz, 1H), 3.97 (s, 6H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                    538
38
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.47 (s, 1 H), 8.43 (d, J = 10.0 Hz,
COMPOUND 2H), 7.70 (d, J = 12.6 Hz, 2H), 7.22 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (d, J =
         7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (s, 1H), 6.46 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.18 (dd, J   539
39
         = 17.0, 2.1 Hz, 1 H), 6.09 (s, 1H), 5.65 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.95
         (s, 6H), 3.39 (s, 3H), 2.20 (s, 3H).
                                               106

         'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.57 (s, 1 H), 9.15 (s, 1 H), 8.74 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.74 (s, 1H), 7.28 (d, J = 1.7 Hz, 1 H), 7.20 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H),
         7.11 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.01 (s, 2H), 6.48 (dd, J = 17.0,10.2 Hz,        539
41
         1 H), 6.21 (dd, J = 16.9, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.75 - 5.61 (m, 1H), 3.97 (s,
         6H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 2.18 (s, 3H).
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 9.44 (s, 1 H), 9.05 (s, 1 H), 8.74 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.74 (br.s, 2H), 7.20 (m, 1H), 7.11 (s, 1H), 6.97 (s, 1 H), 6.50 (m, 540
43       2H), 6.26 - 6.12 (m, 1H), 5.67 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H), 3.94 (s, 6H), 2.19
         (s, 3H), N-Methyl group is buried by water peak.
COMPOUND
                                                                                    541
45
COMPOUND
                                                                                    543
46
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.78 (s, 1 H), 9.20 (s, 1 H), 8.88 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.80 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.36 - 7.23 (m, 2H), 7.15 - 6.95 (m,      543
47       3H), 6.54 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1 H), 6.26 (dd, J = 17.0, 2.0 Hz, 1 H),
         5.75 (dd, J = 10.1, 2.1 Hz, 1 H), 3.97 (s, 6H), 3.85 (s, 3H).
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.48 (s, 1 H), 8.35 (s, 1 H), 7.99 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.16 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.10 - 7.06 (m, 1 H), 6.99
         (s, 1 H), 6.53 (dd, J = 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1 H), 6.22 (dd, J = 16.9, 2.1 Hz,   544
48
         1H), 5.71 (dd, J = 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.48 (s, 2H), 3.96 (s, 6H), 3.44
         (s, 3H), 2.17 (s, 3H).
          H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 9.53 (s, 1 H), 9.25 (s, 1 H), 8.77 (s,
COMPOUND 1 H), 7.99 (s, 1H), 7.75 (s, 1H), 7.52 (br.s, 2H), 7.20 (d, J= 2.5 Hz,     543
49       1H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.53 (dd, J= 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.22 (dd, J= 17.0,
         2.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.69 (dd, J= 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.97 (s, 6H).
COMPOUND
                                                                                    546
50
                                              107

                 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d) 6 9.50 (s, 1 H), 9.22 (s, 1 H), 8.76 (s,
 COMPOUND        1 H), 8.31 (d, J= 7.6, 1 H), 7.75 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.65 - 7.47 (m,  563
 51             3H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.52 (dd, J= 17.0, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.19 (dd, J= 16.9,
                2.0 Hz, 1 H), 5.66 (dd, J= 10.2, 2.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.97 (s, 6H).
                 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.33 (s, 1 H), 8.30 (s, 1 H), 8.22 (s,
 COMPOUND        1 H), 6.81 (dd, J= 16.0. 12.0 Hz, 1H), 6.68 (m, 3H), 6.19 (dd, J=
                 16.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H), 5.62 (dd, J= 12.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H), 4.12 (t, J= 8.0 Hz,  578
 52
                2H), 3.80 (s, 6H), 2.44 (m, 6H), 1.63 (m, 2H), 1.37-1.327 (m, 11 H),
                 0.92 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 6H).
                 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.98 (s, 1 H), 9.08 (s, 1 H), 8.30 (s,
                 1 H), 8.21 - 8.07 (m, 3H), 7.93 (d, J = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 7.67 (m, 4H),
 COMPOUND        6.50 (dd, J = 16.9, 10.2 Hz, 1H), 6.33 - 6.25 (m, 1H), 5.83 - 5.76 (m,  623
 54              1 H), 3.78 (m, 2H), 3.59 (m, 4H), 3.43 (m, 4H), 2.92 (d, J = 11.4 Hz,
                2H), 2.30 (s, 3H), 2.23 (s, 2H), 2.14 (s, 3H), 1.79 (m, 2H), 1.69 - 1.54
                 (m, 2H).
                 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 9.32 (s, 1 H), 8.24 (m, 3H), 7.07 (s,
 COMPOUND        1 H), 6.86 (dd, J= 16.0. 12.0 Hz, 1H), 6.18 (dd, J= 16.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H),
                 5.62 (dd, J= 12.0. 4.0 Hz, 1H), 4.14 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 2H), 3.98 (s, 6H),  646
 55
                2.43 (m, 6H), 1.63 (m, 2H), 1.40-1.30 (m, 11 H), 0.90 (t, J= 8.0 Hz,
                 6H).
Compound selectivity
        The selectivity score is an unbiased measure that enables quantitative comparisons
between compounds and the detailed differentiation and analysis of interaction patterns. One
measure of selectivity is calculated using the percent of control values from a panel of kinase
assays. The scores from primary screens (performed at a single concentration) are reported as
Percent of DMSO Control (POC) and are calculated in the following manner:
                Test compound signal - positive control signal                x 100
                Negative control signal - positive control signal
where the negative control is a solvent such as DMSO (100% control), and the positive control is
a control compound known to bind with high affinity (0% control).
        The selectivity score (S) for each compound screened can be calculated by dividing the
number of kinases with a POC less than a chosen value, e.g., 10, 20, or 35, when screened at a
certain concentration, e.g., 1 pM, 3 pM, 5 pM, or 10 pM, by the total number of distinct kinases
tested (excluding mutant variants). For example, a selectivity score (S) can be calculated by
                                                      108

dividing the number of kinases with a POC less than 10 when screened at 3 PM by the total
number of distinct kinases tested (excluding mutant variants); such a score would be shown as
[S(10) at 3 pM]. The selectivity of Compounds COMPOUND 9; COMPOUND 9;
COMPOUND 11; COMPOUND 15; COMPOUND 16; COMPOUND 20; COMPOUND 21;
COMPOUND 23; COMPOUND 24; COMPOUND 25; COMPOUND 26; COMPOUND 27;
COMPOUND 30; COMPOUND 32; COMPOUND 35; COMPOUND 60; COMPOUND 38;
COMPOUND 39; COMPOUND 41; COMPOUND 45; COMPOUND 48; COMPOUND 50;
COMPOUND 52; COMPOUND 54; COMPOUND 55 was determined; all had selectivity scores
[S(10) @3 pM] of 0.030 or lower.
         COMPOUND 9; COMPOUND 11; COMPOUND 15; COMPOUND 16; COMPOUND
20; COMPOUND 21; COMPOUND 23; COMPOUND 24; COMPOUND 25; COMPOUND 26;
COMPOUND 32; COMPOUND 35; COMPOUND 60; COMPOUND 38; COMPOUND 39;
COMPOUND 45; COMPOUND 48; COMPOUND 50; COMPOUND 52 all had selectivity
scores [S(10) @3 pM] of 0.010 or lower.
Biochemical Activity Assessment
         In order to assess the activity of chemical compounds against the relevant kinase of
interest, the Caliper LifeSciences electrophoretic mobility shift technology platform is utilized.
Fluorescently labeled substrate peptide is incubated in the presence dosed levels of compounds, a
set concentration of kinase and of ATP, so that a reflective proportion of the peptide is
phosphorylated. At the end of the reaction, the mix of phosphorylated (product) and non
phosphorylated (substrate) peptides are passed through the microfluidic system of the Caliper
LabChip@ EZ Reader II, under an applied potential difference. The presence of the phosphate
group on the product peptide provides a difference in mass and charge between the product
peptide and the substrate peptide, resulting in a separation of the substrate and product pools in
the sample. As the pools pass the LEDS within the instrument, these pools are detected and
resolved as separate peaks. The ratio between these peaks therefore reflects the activity of the
chemical matter at that concentration in that well, under those conditions.
         FGFR- 1 wild type assay at Km: In each well of a 384-well plate, 0.1 ng/ul of wild type
FGFR-1 (Carna Biosciences, Inc.) was incubated in a total of 12.5 ul of buffer (100 mM HEPES
pH 7.5, 0.015% Brij 35, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 1mM DTT) with 1 uM CSKtide (5-FAM
                                                  109

KKKKEEIYFFFG-NH 2) and 400 uM ATP at 25 C for 90 minutes in the presence or absence of a
dosed concentration series of compound (1% DMSO final concentration). The reaction was
stopped by the addition of 70 ul of Stop buffer (100 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 0.015% Brij 35, 35 mM
EDTA and 0.2% of Coating Reagent 3 (Caliper Lifesciences)). The plate was then read on a
Caliper EZReader 2 (protocol settings: -1.9 psi, upstream voltage -700, downstream voltage
3000, post sample sip 35s).
        FGFR-4 wild type assay at Km: In each well of a 384-well plate, 0.5 ng/ul of wild type
FGFR-4 (Carna Biosciences, Inc.) was incubated in a total of 12.5 ul of buffer (100 mM HEPES
pH 7.5, 0.015% Brij 35, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 1mM DTT) with 1 uM CSKtide (5-FAM
KKKKEEIYFFFG-NH 2) and 400 uM ATP at 25 C for 90 minutes in the presence or absence of a
dosed concentration series of compound (1% DMSO final concentration). The reaction was
stopped by the addition of 70 ul of Stop buffer (100 mM HEPES pH 7.5, 0.015% Brij 35, 35 mM
EDTA and 0.2% of Coating Reagent 3 (Caliper Lifesciences)). The plate was then read on a
Caliper LabChip@ EZ Reader II (protocol settings: -1.9 psi, upstream voltage -700, downstream
voltage -3000, post sample sip 35s).
  Compound                                                    FGFR4      FGFR1         Ratio
      Id                        Structure                      IC50       IC50     FGFR1/FGFR4
 COMPOUND                                                       C          D             C
 1
 COMPOUND
 2
                                                110

COMPOUND
                              B D A
         N4N
                      0
             N
COMPOUND     N                C D B
4                  N
         N     N
             N
                 N   0
COMPOUND         N   OB         D A
5                  N
          N    N
             N
COMPOUND           N
6                       N
                          111

COMPOUND                           A D A
7
                          N
COMPOUND                           A C E
8N
                          N
                             F
            OO NN
9
            1N             N
COMPOUND          N
                    N1
COMPOUNDDDF
                       IN
                        HN6
                               112

                     NH
COMPOUND                                C D B
11
              N            H
                           HN   O
                             0
COMPOUND                               A  B D
12                       N
               N      N
                   N
                                   C I
COMPOUND              NB                  D D
13
                  NN
                  H
         0 NH
               Ci            CI
COMPOUND                               B  C F
14                       N
                N1N
                                  113

COMPOUND               N          B D B
15              N
                  H
COMPOUND               N            D D
16              N    N
 17  UH2B HINHN
                                    D B
                         O
17AH         CI          F
                         HHNN
COMPOUND            NN            B D E
                              1
                              114

                            0
COMPOUND
18                                  B D B
                 HN
                     O
COMPOUND
19                                  B D B
                  HN
COMPOUND               N
20
                                F   B D
                             N
COMPOUND                            C D B
21         /N
                         F    F
                                CI
COMPOUND             NB
22N                       N
         0   NHI
                                115

                               N
                               H
                N N       N         '   -   N
COMPOUND                                      C D    A
23           HN
            NNHBD
         Q/     C                         0
COMPOUND                              N            D B
24                    N          NN
                          HN
                       N~
                        0
                           N                  C DDN
25A                 N
                      HN
COMPOUND
                            HN116

            oo
COMPOUND
                    N
            N
                HN
                HHN
               HHN
COMPOUND
28         NNB         D B
         o           o
               HNN
COMPOUND
29
           cl117
                     0

COMPOUND                  A C E
30           N      N
                HN
31         N     NA
                    C
         e i          c l
COMPOUND
32            N     N.    A D C
                HHN1
                   HN118

COMPOUND
                 N
33         N
                HN
             N   &
COMPOUND F
34                     A C D
               HNN
COMPOUND
                   119

COMPOUND
                               C D B
36    UN
                  N
                     0   F
COMPOUND                       A D C
37
                    IN   F
COMPOUND    N
                               A D E
38
                     N C
COMPOUNDADF
39            N
                HN
                           120

                 oo
COMPOUND            N        D A
40
               NHHN
COMPOUND                   A C A
41           N      N
                     0
COMPOUND
42       NNA                 B F
                     0
                       121

COMPOUND             N  A C A
43         N      N
             HN
COMPOUND         NOC      D E
              NN
             HHNo
COMPOUND                A D E
45       N
COMPOUND              N A C E
46         N
                  o122
              HHN

COMPOUND
                                   B
47             N      N F
                  HHN
COMPOUND
                               A C E
48       N
            oHN~
COMPOUND                       B D A
49           N     N
           I   H        C
COMPOUND                           E
49A          N        NBCE
                HHN
                 HN12
                           123

COMPOUND                              N
                                              D B
50
              F                     N    I
                  I            I
COMPOUND
                                            B D F
51
                        N,      N H
                           H
                        F
                              F
                             NyN
COMPOUND                                    A
                                 N
                                              B C
52                           N
                        HN
                                 O,
                    oHN)
COMPOUND             NjN
                                            A C C
53
                      N
COMPOUND -N N   -    N
                                            B D B
54
                                  N12
                                        124

 COMPOUND                                                          A           B            A
 55
         In the table above, for FGFR1 and FGFR4: "A" means that the IC50 is less than 10 nM;
"B" means the IC50 is greater than or equal to 10 and less than 1OOnM; "C" means that the IC50 is
greater than or equal to 100 and less than 1000 nM; "D" means that the IC50 is greater than 1000
nM.
         For the ratio: "F" means that the ratio of [IC 50 for FGFR1]/[ICso for FGFR4] is less than
10; "E" means that the ratio is >10 and <50; "D 'means the ratio is >50 and <100; "C" means the
ratio is >100 and <200; "B" means the ratio is >200 and <500; "A" means the ratio is >500. The
higher the ratio, the more selective the compound is for FGFR4 vs. FGFR1.
Cellular potency
         Dose response in MDA-MB-453 cells, which harbor an activating FGFR4 mutation, was
measured as follows. Briefly, MDA-MB- 453 cells were seeded at 2.5 x 106 cells/6 well, and
starved overnight. Compounds were added at varying concentrations (3000, 1000, 300, 100, and
30 nM) for 1 hour. Samples were collected and lysed for immunoblot analysis. The
phosphorylation of Erk was measured and the average pErk value of three replicates was plotted
with three parameter dose-response (inhibition) curve fit using Prism GraphPad software, which
was used to determine the IC5 0 values. The data are shown in the table below.
 Compound Id                  Potency
 COMPOUND18                      C
 COMPOUND20                      D
 COMPOUND25                      B
                                                  125

  COMPOUND26                    B
  COMPOUND27                    B
  COMPOUND31                   A
  COMPOUND33                    B
  COMPOUND34                    B
  COMPOUND60                    B
  COMPOUND61                    B
  COMPOUND38                   C
  COMPOUND39                   A
  COMPOUND41                    B
  COMPOUND43                   A
  COMPOUND45                   A
  COMPOUND46                   A
  COMPOUND53                    B
In the Table, "A" means the IC50 is <1 nM; "B" means the IC50 is >1 and <10 nM; "C" means the IC50
is >10 and <100 nM; "D" means the IC50 is >100 nM.
        These data indicate that FGFR-4 inhibition by these compounds results in blockade of
downstream oncogenic signaling.
Induction of apoptosis with an inhibitor of FGFR4
        Hep3B cells were seeded at 20k/well in 96-well white plates in 200ul of DMEM/5% FBS
overnight. The next day compound was added at a final DMSO concentration of 0.1% and
                                                126

incubated for 6 hours. Caspase activity was measured according to manufacture instruction
(Caspase-Glo3/7 Assay ( Promega)). Briefly, 100ul of Caspase-Glo3/7 reagent was added to
each well and incubated for 1 hour in the dark. Luminescence was measured using EnVision.
The average Caspase activity of 2 replicates was plotted with three parameter dose-response
(inhibition) curve fit using Prism GraphPad software, which was used to determine the IC50
values. As shown in Fig. 3, in Hep3B cells treatment with COMPOUND 25 for 6 hours leads to
potent induction of apoptosis.   BGJ398, a pan-FGFR inhibitor, also results in induction of
apoptosis, although at a higher concentration.
Covalency
        Evidence that COMPOUND 52 covalently binds to FGFR-4 is shown by the mass
spectrometric data shown in Fig. 1. In 60 ul of buffer, 300 uM Compound 1 was incubated with
50 ug (75 uM) of GST-tagged recombinant wild type FGFR-4 (Cama Biosciences) for 3 hours
at room temperature and subsequently at 4'C for 13 hours. The protein-inhibitor complex was
then desalted using Pierce detergent removal columns (Thermo Pierce). The unmodified protein
and protein-inhibitor complex were analyzed by electron spray mass spectrometry to determine
their respective molecular weights. Fig. la shows the mass of the unmodified protein. As
shown, the major relevant peak has a mass of 65468.371 daltons. Fig. 1b, shows the mass of the
protein-inhibitor complex. As shown there, the major relevant peak had a mass of 66043.5123
daltons. The difference between these masses is 575.1252, which is within the instrumental
accuracy of the mass of Compound 1, 577.34 daltons.
        The masses of protein-inhibitor complexes of FGFR-4 and Compounds COMPOUND
11, COMPOUND 20, and COMPOUND 54 are shown in Fig. 2. CR9 is the peak for FGFR4
protein. As shown by peak CR3, the complex showed a +441 da shift when the MW of the
compound (COMPOUND 11) was 444.6 (within instrumental accuracy). In another example,
the complex showed a +470 da shift (peak CR2), when the MW of the compound (COMPOUND
20) was 473.4. In yet another example, the complex showed a +631 da shift (peak CR1) when
the MW of the compound (COMPOUND 54) was 622.7.
        This demonstrates that compounds from a wide variety of scaffolds are all capable of
forming covalent complexes with FGFR4.
                                                127

Binding to Cys552
         The crystal structure of COMPOUND 52 bound to FGFR-4 is shown in Fig. 4. As shown
there, COMPOUND 52 binds to the cysteine at residue 552 of FGFR-4.
         The crystal structure of COMPOUND 25 bound to FGFR-4 is shown in Fig. 5. As shown
there, COMPOUND 25 also binds to the cysteine at residue 552 of FGFR-4.
In vivo efficacy data
         The effects of COMPOUND 25, BGJ398 (a pan-FGFR inhibitor) and Sorafenib on tumor
growth inhibition in Hep3B liver cancer cell subcutaneous xenograft model with different
dosages were studied.
         Six female nude mice (Mus Musculus) age 6 to 8 weeks were used. Tumor cell culture
and inoculation: Hep3B cells were cultured with EMEM medium (Invitrogen, USA)
supplemented with 10% FBS (Gibco, Australia). The cells were harvested in 90% confluence,
and the viability was no less than 90%. Mice were implanted subcutaneously (s.c.) with 200 PL
of 10  x 106 Hep3B cells in 50% Matrigel in the right flank at the beginning of the study.
         Animal grouping and dosing schedule: Ten days after cell implantation, when tumors
reached an average volume of 199 mm 3, 45 mice were selected based on tumor volume and
randomly assigned to 5 treatment groups (n=9). The day of randomization was denoted as Do
and the treatment was started from then on.
         Tumor volume and body weight measurements: Tumor size was measured twice per
week in two dimensions using a caliper, and the volume was expressed in mm 3 using the
formula: V = 0.5 a x b 2 where a and b were the long and short diameters of the tumor,
respectively. Body weight was measured at least twice weekly.
         End of in vivo portion: Blood, tumors and livers were collected from 3 mice in each
treated group at 4, 12 and 24 hours after the last dose. The left lobe of the liver was collected for
pharmacodynamic (PD) studies, and the rest of the liver was stored in formalin for histology.
The small tumors were prioritized for use in pharmacokinetic studies. Any remaining tumor was
fixed for histological analysis first, and then was snap-frozen for the PD study.
         Tumor volumes of Hep3B-bearing nude mice: Fig. 5 is a line graph depicting the growth
inhibition of COMPOUND 25-treated (100 mg/kg PO BID), COMPOUND 25-treated (300
mg/kg PO BID), BGJ398-treated (20 mg/kg PO QD), and Sorafenib-treated (30 mg/kg PO QD)
                                                  128

groups against Hep3B xenograft tumors in nude mice. Statistically significant reduction of
tumor volumes was observed in COMPOUND 25 (100 mg/kg PO BID), COMPOUND 25 (300
mg/kg PO BID) and Sorafenib (30 mg/kg PO QD) efficacy groups when compared with vehicle
group, all starting from Day 4 after the first administration of the compounds and persisted to the
end (Day 19). However, a significant difference in tumor volume between BGJ398 (20 mg/kg
PO QD) and vehicle groups was not observed during the entire study. Increasing dosage of
COMPOUND 25 from 100 mg/kg to 300 mg/kg enhanced the tumor inhibition efficiency.
Tumors in both COMPOUND 25-treated (100 mg/kg PO BID) and COMPOUND 25-treated
(300 mg/kg PO BID) groups regressed, and tumors in the COMPOUND 25-treated (300 mg/kg
PO BID) group almost disappeared. In this study, the COMPOUND 25-treated (100 mg/kg PO
BID) and the COMPOUND 25-treated (300 mg/kg PO BID) groups displayed superiority in
tumor growth inhibition.
        Body weight change (%) of Hep3B-bearing nude mice: Fig. 7 is a line graph depicting
the body weight change (%) during the entire study period. All the mice except for the mice in
the COMPOUND 25-treated groups showed significant loss in bodyweight. The body weight of
mice in the vehicle group decreased by approximately 10% by Day 10 for the burden of tumor.
This result indicated that COMPOUND 25 was well tolerated at the current dosages and dosing
schedule in nude mice, and that COMPOUND 25 could alleviate body weight loss by inhibiting
tumor growth.
        Mice treated with COMPOUND 25 (100 mg/kg PO BID), COMPOUND 25 (300 mg/kg
PO BID) and Sorafenib (30 mg/kg PO QD) exhibited a significant reduction of tumor volume as
compared with the vehicle group during the entire study. Increasing the dosage of COMPOUND
25 from 100 mg/kg to 300 mg/kg enhanced the tumor inhibition efficiency. Tumors of mice in
both the COMPOUND 25-treated (100 mg/kg PO BID) and the COMPOUND 25-treated (300
mg/kg PO BID) groups regressed, and tumors in the COMPOUND 25-treated (300 mg/kg PO
BID) group almost disappeared. All mice except for those in the COMPOUND 25-treated
groups lost a significant amount of bodyweight. The bodyweight of the mice in the vehicle
group decreased by approximately 10% by Day 10 for the burden of tumor. These results
indicated that COMPOUND 25 was well tolerated at the current dosages and at the dosing
schedule in nude mice, and that COMPOUND 25 could alleviate body weight loss by inhibiting
tumor growth.
                                                 129

                                     Incorporation by Reference
        All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
indicated to be incorporated by reference.
        Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                             Equivalents
        Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described
herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.
                                                 130

   Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
   paragraphs:
            1. A compound of Formula 1, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                            (R2).
                                                   N
                                                                       3
                                                                 ___(R   )p
                                              HN        X    Y-(
                                         H
                              Warhead    N
 5                                               Formula I
   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   ring A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic or alicyclic group;
   X is CH or N;
   Y is CH or N-R 4 where R4 is H or C1 6 alkyl;
10 L is -[C(R 5 )(R6)]q-, where each of R5 and R6 is, independently, H or C1 6 alkyl, wherein q is 0-4;
   each of RI-R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 6 alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo,
   amino, amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1 6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1 .6
   heterocyclyl;
   and m is 0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
15         2. The compound of paragraph 1, wherein X is N and Y is CH.
           3. The compound of paragraph lor 2, wherein A is phenyl.
           4. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-3, wherein two R2 are chloro and two R2 are
   methoxy.
           5. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-4, wherein R' is methyl.
20         6. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-5, wherein q is 0.
                                                                                     0
           7. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-6, wherein Warhead is
           8. A compound of Formula II, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                     131

                                   Warhead  N      N      Y
                                                  Formula II
   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   W is C or N;
 5 Z is CH or N;
   Y is CH or N-R 4 where R 4 is H or C 1.6 alkyl;
   R' is H or C1-6 alkyl;
   each of R 2 and R3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
   amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1.6 alkyl, optionally
tO substituted  C1-6 heterocyclyl;
   n is 0-4;
   and p is 0-2.
           9. The compound of paragraph 8, wherein R2 is halo or methoxy.
            10. The compound of paragraph 8 or 9, wherein n is 4.
L5          11. The compound of any of paragraphs 8-10, wherein Y is N-R 4 , where R 4 is methyl
            12. The compound of any of paragraphs 8-11, wherein R' is methyl.
            13. A compound of Formula III, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                       (R 2).
                                              N
                                  WarheadN
                                                   N      N
                                                RR3)
20                                               Formula III
   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   R' is H or optionally substituted C1 -6 alkyl, including dialkylaminoalkyl;
   each of R 2 and R3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
   amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1.6 alkyl, optionally
25 substituted  C1-6 heterocyclyl;
   n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
                                                     132

            14. The compound of paragraph 13, wherein each R 2 is, independently, halo or
   methoxy.
            15. The compound of paragraph 14, wherein n is 2
            16. The compound of paragraph 14, wherein n is 4.
 5          17. The compound of any of paragraphs 13-16, wherein R' is methyl.
            18. The compound of any of paragraphs 13-16, wherein R' is diethylaminobutyl.
            19. A compound of Formula IV, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                         (R2)
                                             N
                                                                 3
                                                            __(R
                                  Warhead. N     N
                                               Formula IV
LO wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;R is H or
   optionally substituted C1-6 alkyl;
   each of R 2 and R3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted CI 6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
   amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkyl, optionally
   substituted Ci- heterocyclyl;
L5 n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
           20. The compound of paragraph 19, wherein R 2 is halo or methoxy.
           21. The compound of paragraph 19 or 20, wherein n is 2.
           22. The compound of paragraph 19 or 20, wherein n is 4.
           23. The compound of any of paragraphs 19-22, wherein R' is methyl.
20         24. A compound of Formula V, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                   H
                                                                    (HWarhead
                                                              N     H
                                                                       (Ra)p
                                                   HN
                                               H       (
                                  (R1-         N
                                                Formula V
                                                     133

   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   each of RI-R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
   amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkyl, optionally
   substituted C 1 .6 heterocyclyl, optionally substituted C1 .6 heterocyclylamido;
 5 m is 0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
           25. A compound of Formula VI, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                      Warhead
                                              NH
                                                           N
                                                     N
                                                                      (R1)m
                                                  Formula VI
10 wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   L is aryl, heteroaryl, or -[C(R 5)(R6 )]q-, where each of R5 and R6 is, independently, H or C1. 6
   alkyl; and q is 0-4;
   each of R' is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo,
   amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkyl, optionally
15 substituted C 1 .6 heterocyclyl; and m is 0-3.
           26. The compound of paragraph 25, wherein L is alkylene
           27. The compound of paragraph 25, wherein L is phenyl.
           28. The compound of any of paragraphs 25-27, wherein R' is trifluoroethylurea.
           29. A compound of Formula VII, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
20
                                               O-(R2)
                                       (R').
                                                  N
                                                        H
                                                    NHNN
                                                             HN    Warhead
                                                       134

                                                 Formula VII
   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   each of RI and R 2 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
   oxo, amino, amido, optionally substituted alkylsulfonamido, optionally substituted alkyl urea,
 5 optionally substituted C 1.6 alkyl, optionally substituted C 1.6 heterocyclyl;
   m is 0-3; and n is 0-4.
           30. A compound of Formula VIII, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                               (R2 ),
                                                    N          ZWJ:
                                                                    j(R3)P
                                               HN          X   Y
                                          H
                             Warhead
                                       L
                                                A
                                                         1
                                                       (R )m
                                                Formula VIII
10 Wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
   ring A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic or alicyclic group;
   W is C or N;
   each of X and Z is, independently, CH or N; Y is CH or N-R 4 where R 4 is H or C 1.6 alkyl;
   L is -[C(R 5)(R 6)]q-, where each of R 5 and R6 is, independently, H or C1.6 alkyl, and q is 0-4;
15 each of RI-R 3 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy, oxo,
   amino, amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkyl, optionally substituted C1 .6
   heterocyclyl; m is 0-3; n is 0-4; and p is 0-2.
           31. A compound of Formula IX, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                   (R')m
                                (R2.
                                                               NH        HN-Warhead
20
                                                  Formula IX
   wherein Warhead is a moiety capable of forming a covalent bond with a nucleophile;
                                                      135

  each of RI and R2 is, independently, halo, cyano, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkoxy, hydroxy,
  oxo, amino, amido, optionally substituted alkyl urea, optionally substituted C1 .6 alkyl,
  optionally substituted heterocyclyl; m is 0-3; and n is 0-4.
         32. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-3 1, wherein Warhead is selected from the
  group consisting of
      Ra     0                                                                             0
  Rb
                                    0(R
                     R')))   /X
                                                                                               SR5
                           0                 O
     0
5                             CN    and         CF 3
  wherein X is halo, or triflate; and each of Ra, R , and R' is, independently, H, substituted or
  unsubstituted C 1 .4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1.4 cycloalkyl, or cyano.
                                                                                       0
         33. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-32, wherein Warhead is
         34. A compound selected from the group consisting of:
                                                     136

                                           O                                                 a
                  I               I                              I         1                        1
                      N           N
                                           I                       N                          N
                                                                                                    I
                        N      N                                      IN                        HN
                                                                                                 HN
                                                                       HN
                   HNHNN                                                                              0
                                                               0
                        o0
                           F                                                       N
                                                                                            C1
                                                                                 So       a         a
               and     N a   o   pargrph         Nof   3
                                                                               N1-
                  O                               N                          N
                  HN                                HN                     HNH
                   HN                                HN                     HN
                                                                       00
                        a                                o  1a
                                                      00
                                                                               N
                                                SN
                  NNN                    NN
                    HN                      HNO                      HN
                     NHN                    HN                        I-IN
                                                           and                       ,or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt therefor.
         35. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
and a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34.
         36. The compound of any of paragraphs 1-34, wherein said compound inhibits FGFR-4
activity more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1 activity.
         37. A covalent inhibitor of FGFR-4.
         38. The inhibitor of paragraph 37, wherein said inhibitor contains a warhead.
                                                            137

         39. A compound that inhibits FGFR-4 activity more potently, when measured in a
biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1 activity, wherein the compound has a molecular
weight of less than 1500 daltons.
         40. The compound of paragraph 39, wherein the compound inhibits FGFR-4 activity at
least 10 times more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR-1
activity.
         41. The compound of paragraph 39, wherein the compound inhibits FGFR-4 activity at
least 50 times more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR-1
activity.
         42. The compound of paragraph 39, wherein the compound inhibits FGFR-4 activity at
least 100 times more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1
activity.
         43. The compound of paragraph 39, wherein the compound inhibits FGFR-4 activity at
least 200 times more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR- 1
activity.
         44. The compound of paragraph 39, wherein the compound inhibits FGFR-4 activity at
least 500 times more potently, when measured in a biochemical assay, than it inhibits FGFR-1
activity.
         45. The compound of any of paragraphs 39-44, wherein the compound has a warhead.
         46. The compound of paragraph 45, wherein the compound is capable of forming a
covalent bond with FGFR-4.
         47. An inhibited FGFR-4 protein comprising an inhibitor having a covalent bond to a
cysteine residue of FGFR-4.
         48. The inhibited protein of paragraph 47, wherein the covalent bond is between a
portion of a warhead moiety on the inhibitor and a portion of a cysteine residue of FGFR-4.
                                                                                 0
         49. The inhibited protein of paragraph 48, wherein the warhead is  X
         50. The inhibited protein of any of paragraphs 47-49, wherein the inhibitor has a
covalent bond to cysteine residue 552 of FGFR-4.
         51.  A method for treating a condition mediated by FGFR-4, comprising administering
a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a
subject.
                                                 138

        52. A method for treating a condition characterized by overexpression of FGFR-4,
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of
paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        53. A method for treating a condition characterized by amplified FGF-19, comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or
36-46 to a subject.
        54. A method of treating hepatocellular carcinoma, the method comprising
administering to a subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of
paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46.
        55.  A method of treating breast cancer, the method comprising administering to a
subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46.
        56. A method of treating ovarian cancer, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        57. A method of treating lung cancer, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        58. A method of treating liver cancer, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        59. A method of treating a sarcoma, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        60. A method of treating hyperlipidemia, the method comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 to a subject.
        61.  A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating a
condition mediated by FGFR-4.
        62. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for us in a method of treating a
condition characterized by overexpression of FGFR-4.
        63. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating a
condition characterized by amplified FGF-19.
        64. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
hepatocellular carcinoma.
        65. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
breast cancer.
        66. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
ovarian cancer.
                                                139

         67. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
lung cancer.
         68. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
liver cancer.
         69. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating a
sarcoma.
         70. A compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for use in a method of treating
hyperlipidemia.
         71.  The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of a condition mediated by FGFR-4.
         72. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by overexpression of FGFR-4
         73. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of a
medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by amplified FGF-19.
         74. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.
         75.  The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of breast cancer.
         76. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of ovarian cancer.
         77. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of lung cancer.
         78. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of a sarcoma.
         79. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of liver cancer.
         80. The use of a compound of any of paragraphs 1-34 or 36-46 for the manufacture of
a medicament for the treatment of hyperlipidemia.
Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                               140

Claims:
1.      A compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                                         (R2)
                                                       N
                                                 HN          X     Y
                                            H
                              Warhead       N
                                                            1
                                                          (R )m~
                                                    Formula I
wherein:
ring A is a 3-8 membered aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic, or alicyclic group;
        X is CH or N;
        Y is CH;
        L is -[C(R 5 )(R 6 )]q-, wherein each of R5 and R6 is independently H or C 1.6 alkyl and
wherein q is 0-4;
        each of RI and R2 is independently halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkoxy,
hydroxy, oxo, amino, amido, alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkyl, or optionally
substituted C 3 6 heterocyclyl;
        each R3 is independently halo, cyano, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkoxy, amino, amido,
alkyl urea, optionally substituted C 1 6 alkyl, or optionally substituted C 3 6 heterocyclyl;
        m is 0-3;
        n is 4;
        p is 0-2;
        the bond adjacent to Y represented by a dashed line and a solid line is a double bond;
and
                                             Ra      0
                                                                     0
                                         Rb                      X
        Warhead is selected from                RC
                                                                   0
                               0
                                    SSS,     and       Ra
        wherein:
                                                         141

                X is a halo or triflate leaving group; and
                each of Ra, R , and R' is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1- 4 alkyl,
        or substituted or unsubstituted C 3 - 4 cycloalkyl.
2.      The compound of claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein X is N
and Y is CH.
3.      The compound of claim 1 or claim 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein ring A is a 3-8 membered aryl or heteroaryl group.
4.      The compound of claim 3 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein ring A
is a phenyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, imidazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, triazolyl, pyrazolyl,
pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, or pyrimidinyl group.
5.      The compound of claim 1 or claim 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein ring A is a 3-8 membered heterocyclic group.
6.      The compound of claim 5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein ring A
is pyrrolidine, piperidine, piperazine, or morpholine.
7.      The compound of claim 1 or claim 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein ring A is a 3-8 membered alicyclic group.
8.      The compound of any one of claims 1-7 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein each R 2 is independently halo or methoxy.
9.      The compound of any one of claims 1-7 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein two R 2 are chloro and two R 2 are methoxy.
10.     The compound of any one of claims 1-9 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein R' is methyl.
11.     The compound of any one of claims 1-10 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein q is 0.
                                                   142

12.     The compound of any one of claims 1-11 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
                        Re    0
                     Rb
wherein Warhead is         Rc
13.     The compound of any one of claims 1-12 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
                         0
wherein Warhead is
14.     A compound selected from:
                                                                  0        0
                                       N               N
          NN
                N  N
                                                    FF
             HN                      I-N                 -I             HN
             HN                       I-I     N                  HN6
                NN                                           NNN
                                          ;                 ;                    ; and
        pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
15.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at
least one compound selected from the compounds of any one of claims 1-14 and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
                                                143

16.     A method for treating a condition mediated by FGFR-4, the method comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
17.     A method for treating a condition characterized by overexpression of FGF19, the
method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one
of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
18.     A method of treating a condition characterized by amplified FGF19, the method
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of
claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
19.     A method of treating hepatocellular carcinoma characterized by overexpressed or
amplified FGF19, the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject.
20.     A method of treating a condition selected from breast cancer, ovarian cancer, lung
cancer, a sarcoma, liver cancer, and hyperlipidemia, wherein the condition is characterized by
overexpressed or amplified FGF 19, the method comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof to a subject.
21.     Use of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition mediated by FGFR
4.
22.     Use of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by
overexpression of FGF19.
23.     Use of a compound of any one claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition characterized by amplified
FGF19.
24.     Use of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma
characterized by overexpressed or amplified FGF 19.
                                                144

25.     Use of a compound of any one of claims 1-14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition selected from
breast cancer, ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a sarcoma, liver cancer, and hyperlipidemia, wherein
the condition is characterized by overexpressed or amplified FGF 19.
Date: 7 December 2017
                                                145

<removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+2716><U+2717>
                    <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+2711><U+2712>
<removed-apn>           <U+273B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                    <U+25BC><U+275B><U+260E><U+260E><U+2733> <U+2706><U+275B>
                                 <U+273C>
                  <U+274B><U+2710><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720>
                    <U+261B><U+261B><U+2713><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+261E><U+2712><U+2714><U+270F>
                            <U+261B><U+261B><U+2712><U+2714><U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+2712><U+2714><U+2714>
                           <U+261B><U+261B><U+2714><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E><U+270C><U+2711><U+261B><U+270D>
                            <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+2713><U+2715><U+270E><U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+261B>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+2713><U+2712><U+2714><U+270E><U+2711><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711>
                                 <U+2711><U+2713><U+270F>
                   <U+273B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>         <U+273C>
                   <U+274B><U+2710><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2721>

<removed-date>
                                            <U+2737><U+2719><U+271A>
                                   <U+2715>                          <U+2715>                        <U+2715>                    <U+2715>
                                   <U+2714><U+2736>                         <U+2714><U+2736>                       <U+2714><U+2736>                   <U+2714><U+2736>
                                   <U+271E>                      <U+2738>                        <U+271D>                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+271E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                   <U+2704>                        <U+260E>
                                        <U+2702>
                       <U+2701>                                                                    <U+2748>                        <U+2720>
                                        <U+2748>                          <U+2748>                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                       <U+2748>                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                                                                         <U+2712>
                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                                                         <U+270F>    <U+2718>
                                                                                                                         <U+275B>
                                                                                                                         <U+270E>    <U+2717>
                                                  <U+271D>                                                                      <U+270D><U+270C>   <U+2716>
                                                      <U+2720>                <U+2738>                                                 <U+261E>    <U+2710>
                           <U+2738>                      <U+271D>                    <U+2721>                                                 <U+261E>
                           <U+2706>                          <U+271E>                <U+2738>                                             <U+2720>   <U+275B>    <U+274B>
                               <U+271F>                  <U+2738>                        <U+271E>                                         <U+2720>
                   <U+271D>           <U+271E>                                       <U+2738>                                             <U+2720>   <U+25BC>
                   <U+2738>       <U+2738>                                                                                         <U+271E>
                   <U+2706>                                                                                             <U+2738>
                   <U+2738>
                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                 <U+2738>
              <U+2733>t
              <U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+272A>                                                                <U+2720>                    <U+2720>   <U+2720>
                                                                               <U+2720>                <U+273A>
                                                                               <U+271F>

<removed-date>
                                               <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746>
<removed-apn>               <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272A><U+272B><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+272A><U+2733><U+2734><U+2737><U+2739><U+2737><U+2734><U+273B> <U+2737><U+273C> <U+2733><U+273D><U+273E><U+272C><U+273D><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740><U+272B> <U+2734><U+2741><U+272E><U+272A><U+2734><U+272E><U+2740> <U+2761><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+2742> <U+2733><U+272E><U+2743><U+2743><U+272B>
                        <U+2736><U+273A><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+2461>t   <U+2720>
              <U+260E>    t<U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+260E>   <U+271F> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              t     <U+271E>
              <U+2704>
              <U+275B>    <U+2461><U+271D>
              <U+2702>    <U+275B><U+271D>
              <U+275B>    t<U+260E>
              <U+2701>    <U+275C><U+271D>    <U+273A><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+275B>    <U+275B><U+272D>
              <U+2748>
                              <U+2735>
                                    <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732><U+270C>      <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732><U+261E>      <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732><U+261B>          <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732><U+2721>
                                            <U+270D><U+2666><U+270E><U+270F><U+2666><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                           <U+270D><U+2666><U+270E><U+270F><U+2666><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2719>              <U+2747><U+2724><U+2725><U+2738><U+2726><U+2723>
                        <U+270D><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717>           <U+2738><U+271A><U+271B><U+2719><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+271B><U+271B><U+2723>            <U+2738><U+271A><U+2718><U+2738><U+2727><U+271C><U+2722><U+271B><U+271B><U+2605>
                                            <U+274B><U+2710><U+2749><U+274A> <U+25CF>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              <U+2739> <U+2701>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2702><U+2733> <U+2704>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              <U+273A> <U+2701>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2702><U+2733> <U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                                          <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2712> <U+2706><U+2735><U+2735>         <U+2771><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2713> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
                                 <U+2711>             <U+2748><U+2660><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2706> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+2660> <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
                                 <U+270F>             <U+2748><U+2660><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2706> <U+2738><U+2735><U+2735><U+2660> <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
                                 <U+270E>
                                 <U+2725> <U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>         <U+271A><U+2747><U+2726><U+2738><U+273E><U+271D> <U+2735><U+2660> <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+2727><U+271C>
                             <U+270D>                 <U+2759><U+2605><U+2729><U+275B><U+272A><U+2713><U+272B><U+2715><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2735><U+2660> <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+2727><U+271C>
                                 <U+271F>
                                 <U+271F><U+270C> <U+2736><U+2706><U+2735><U+2735>
                                 <U+261E>
                                 <U+271F> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                                  <U+2709><U+2666>
                                 <U+2720>                                            <U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+261B>                                      <U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+2721>
                                 <U+2720> <U+2706><U+2735><U+2735>                    <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+271F>                 <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+2709><U+271E>                <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>          <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                      <U+2735>            <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>    <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                                                       <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                           <U+2735>   <U+2738>         <U+273B>     <U+273E> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2736>    <U+2736><U+2706> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2736><U+271D><U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>   <U+2736>
                                                           <U+275A>r<U+2761><U+2701>t<U+2702><U+2761><U+2704>t <U+260E><U+2701><U+2461>s
              <U+2746> <U+2717><U+2715><U+272B><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2729><U+275B><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2722><U+2715><U+2716><U+272E><U+2715><U+272B><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2713> <U+275B><U+272B><U+272E><U+2715><U+272E><U+2730><U+2660><U+2605><U+2729> <U+2713><U+2731><U+2713><U+2716><U+272E> <U+2605><U+272A> <U+2748><U+2605><U+2660><U+2722><U+2605><U+2730><U+272B><U+2723> <U+2706> <U+2732><U+2736><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2660><U+272D><U+2733><U+2724><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2734> <U+2732> <U+2734><U+2737>
              <U+2748><U+2605><U+2660><U+2722><U+2605><U+2730><U+272B><U+2723> <U+2706> <U+2732><U+2738><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2660><U+272D><U+2733><U+2724><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2734> <U+2732> <U+2734><U+2737> <U+271A><U+2747><U+2726><U+2738><U+273E><U+271D> <U+2732> <U+2735> <U+2660><U+272D><U+2733><U+2724><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+2727><U+271C><U+2734> <U+2732> <U+2734><U+2737> <U+275B><U+272B><U+2723> <U+2759><U+2605><U+2729><U+275B><U+272A><U+2713><U+272B><U+2715><U+272C>
              <U+2732><U+2738><U+2735> <U+2660><U+272D><U+2733><U+2724><U+272D> <U+2718><U+2719> <U+2727><U+271C><U+2734> <U+2732> <U+2734> <U+272D><U+2729><U+2605><U+2730><U+2722><U+2739> <U+275B><U+272D><U+275B><U+2715><U+272B><U+2739><U+272E> <U+273A><U+2713><U+2722><U+2738><U+272C> <U+273C><U+2713><U+272B><U+2605><U+272D><U+2729><U+275B><U+272A><U+272E> <U+272E><U+2730><U+2660><U+2605><U+2729><U+2739> <U+2715><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2730><U+2723><U+2713> <U+2660><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713><U+273D> <U+271C><U+275B><U+272E><U+275B>
              <U+2707><U+2713><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2739><U+2714><U+2605><U+2707><U+272B> <U+275B><U+2739> <U+2660><U+2713><U+275B><U+272B> <U+273F> <U+2759><U+2740><U+2741><U+2737> <U+272B><U+2742><U+273E><U+273D> <U+2759><U+272E><U+275B><U+272E><U+2715><U+2739><U+272E><U+2715><U+2716><U+275B><U+2717><U+2717><U+2743> <U+2739><U+2715><U+272D><U+272B><U+2715><U+2665><U+2716><U+275B><U+272B><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2715><U+2731><U+2713><U+2729><U+2713><U+272B><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2605><U+272B><U+2713><U+2744><U+2707><U+275B><U+2743> <U+2746><U+2745><U+2719><U+2771><U+2746><U+2734><U+273D>
                                                         <U+25CF><U+2710><U+274D> <U+274F>

<removed-date>
                                                       <U+273C><U+2605><U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+270D>   <U+2737> <U+2701>
                                 <U+270C>
                                 <U+261E>
                                 <U+261B>   <U+2737> <U+2735>
                                 <U+2721>
                                 <U+271E>
                                 <U+2720>
                                     <U+2736> <U+2701>
                                 t
                                 <U+271F>
                                 <U+271E>
                                 <U+271D>
                                     <U+2736> <U+2735>                                               <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+2761>
                                 <U+2706>
                                 <U+260E>
                                 <U+2704>   <U+2735> <U+2701>
                                 <U+2702>
                                 <U+2709>                     <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                 <U+275A>                               <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                     <U+2735> <U+2735>
                                               <U+2761>       <U+271A>         <U+271A>         <U+271A>                <U+271A>
                                           <U+270F>       <U+2714>         <U+2714>         <U+2714>           <U+2714>                <U+2714>
                                                   <U+2713>   <U+2660>     <U+2713>   <U+2660>     <U+2713>   <U+2660>                <U+2660>
                                           <U+270E>                                   <U+2724>                <U+2724>
                                               <U+271D>   <U+2712>         <U+2712>         <U+2712>
                                               <U+271F>       <U+2702>         <U+2702>         <U+2702>                <U+2702>
                                                   <U+2711>   <U+2719>     <U+2711>   <U+2719>     <U+2711>   <U+2719>       <U+2711>        <U+2719>       <U+2711>
                                               <U+2761>
                                                   P   <U+2719>     P   <U+2719>     P   <U+2716>       P        <U+271B>       P
                                           <U+2771>
                                                       <U+2718>         <U+271B>
                                                                           <U+2723>            <U+2727>
                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                       <U+2717>         <U+2717>         <U+2722>
                                                       <U+2716>         <U+2716>         <U+271B>            <U+2726>
                                                                           <U+271C>                <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2715>         <U+2715>                      <U+2725>
                                                                           <U+2747>            <U+275B>
                                                       <U+2660>         <U+2660>                          <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                       <U+2702>         <U+2702>
                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2748>         <U+2748>
              <U+2746> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+2730><U+272E><U+272D><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2734><U+2738><U+2731><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+2739><U+273D><U+2730> <U+273B><U+2732><U+2738> <U+273B><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+272E> <U+2741><U+2738><U+2739><U+2730><U+2732><U+273B><U+2742> <U+2740><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2738><U+2731><U+2745><U+2749><U+274A><U+272C><U+2738><U+272D><U+272E><U+2739><U+273D><U+2730> <U+273D><U+273E><U+2734><U+2738> <U+273F><U+2739><U+273A><U+2738><U+25CF> <U+274D><U+272D><U+273B><U+272D> <U+2741><U+2738><U+272E><U+2738> <U+2742><U+2732><U+2740><U+2741><U+273D>
              <U+272D><U+2742> <U+273F><U+2738><U+272D><U+273D>  <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC> <U+273D><U+25C6><U+2756><U+25CF> <U+274F><U+273B><U+272D><U+273B><U+2739><U+2742><U+273B><U+2739><U+273A><U+272D><U+25D7><U+25D7>| <U+2742><U+2739><U+2730><U+273D><U+2739><U+2665><U+273A><U+272D><U+273D><U+273B> <U+2734><U+2739><U+2759><U+2738><U+272E><U+2738><U+273D><U+273A><U+2738> <U+276F><U+2740><U+273D><U+2738><U+274A><U+2741><U+272D>| <U+2746><U+2461><U+2772><U+2773><U+2746><U+2768><U+25BC> <U+2769><U+2740><U+273F><U+2731><U+2740><U+273E><U+273D><U+2734> <U+2666><U+276C>
              <U+276F><U+276D><U+276A><U+276A> <U+273F><U+2730><U+276B><U+2774><U+2730> <U+2775><U+2772> <U+2749><U+275C><U+274D><U+2768><U+25BC> <U+2769><U+2740><U+273F><U+2731><U+2740><U+273E><U+273D><U+2734> <U+2666><U+276C> <U+276F><U+2745><U+276A><U+276A> <U+273F><U+2730><U+276B><U+2774><U+2730> <U+2775><U+2772> <U+2749><U+275C><U+274D><U+2768><U+25BC> <U+2749><U+275D><U+275E><U+2745><U+2756><U+2762> <U+276F><U+2666><U+276A> <U+273F><U+2730><U+276B><U+2774><U+2730> <U+2775><U+2772> <U+2763><U+274D><U+2768><U+25BC> <U+272D><U+273D><U+2734>
              <U+274F><U+2740><U+272E><U+272D><U+2743><U+2738><U+273D><U+2739><U+272C> <U+276F><U+2745><U+276A> <U+273F><U+2730><U+276B><U+2774><U+2730> <U+2775><U+2772> <U+2763><U+274D><U+2768> <U+2730><U+272E><U+2740><U+273E><U+2731><U+2742> <U+2764><U+2742><U+25CF> <U+2764><U+2738><U+2732><U+2739><U+273A><U+25D7><U+2738><U+25CF>
                                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+272A><U+2733> <U+272B>

<removed-date>
                                                                      <U+273D><U+272B><U+273D>
<removed-apn>                 <U+274D> <U+261B><U+270D>                             <U+2771><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                            <U+25CF><U+274A> <U+270C><U+2736>                           <U+2748><U+2660><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2660> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                              <U+2749>                             <U+2748><U+2660><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+2660> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                                <U+2745> <U+270C><U+261B>                        <U+271D><U+2747><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2660> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+2714><U+271F>
                                 <U+2744><U+2743> <U+2713>                       <U+2759><U+2666><U+2715><U+275B><U+2716><U+2761><U+2717><U+2701><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270D><U+2660> <U+2720><U+270E> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+2714><U+271F>
                                   <U+273A><U+273C> <U+2739>
                                     <U+2742><U+2741>
                                        <U+273E><U+2740> <U+270D>
                                          <U+273F> <U+2732><U+2739>
                                           <U+273E>
                                             <U+273B><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2732><U+2713>
                                                <U+2738><U+2737> <U+2732><U+270C><U+261B>
                                                  <U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+270C><U+2736>
                                                    <U+2731>
                                                      <U+2732><U+261B><U+270D>
                                                            <U+270F>     <U+2736>      <U+2712>    <U+270C><U+261B>     <U+270C><U+261E>   <U+270C><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+270C>
                                                                      <U+275A>r<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2751> <U+25C6><U+274F><U+2461>s
              <U+2746> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2717><U+2761> <U+2719><U+2715><U+275B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2761><U+2720><U+2701><U+2702>t<U+2701><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2666><U+2721><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2761><U+2701><U+2719> t <U+2702> <U+275B><U+2717><U+2719><U+2761> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2666><U+2716> <U+2724><U+2761><U+2720><U+270F><U+271D><U+2732><U+2718><U+2761><U+275B><U+2715><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719> <U+2717><U+2710><U+2721><U+2761> <U+2660><U+2701><U+2702><U+2761>
              <U+2716><U+2666><U+2704><U+2704><U+2666><U+271B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719> <U+275B><U+2721><U+2660><U+2701><U+2717><U+2701><U+2707>t<U+2715><U+275B>t<U+2701><U+2666><U+2717> <U+2666><U+2716> <U+2725><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+275B><U+2717><U+2721> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2720><U+2666><U+2710><U+2717><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+271C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2660><U+2719><U+2726><U+270E><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2723> <U+271C> <U+2723><U+272E>
              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2720><U+2666><U+2710><U+2717><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+271C><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2660><U+2719><U+2726><U+270E><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2723> <U+271C> <U+2723><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2747><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271C><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2660><U+2719><U+2726><U+270E><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+2714><U+271F><U+2723> <U+271C> <U+2723><U+272E> <U+275B><U+2717><U+2721> <U+2759><U+2666><U+2715><U+275B><U+2716><U+2761><U+2717><U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+271C><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2660><U+2719><U+2726><U+270E><U+2719> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+2714><U+271F><U+2723> <U+271C> <U+2723> <U+2719><U+2715><U+2666><U+2710><U+2720><U+2707><U+2733> <U+271F><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+271B><U+2761><U+2715><U+2761> <U+2707> <U+2666><U+271B><U+2717> <U+275B><U+2707> <U+2660><U+2761><U+275B><U+2717> <U+2727> <U+2759><U+2605><U+2729><U+272E> <U+2717><U+272A><U+2712><U+2733>
                                                                      <U+274B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F> <U+2730>

