                                        ABSTRACT
A computer implemented method for booking a resource and providing access to the
booked resource. The method is implemented on a resource management system
configured to communicate with one or computing devices and one or more resource
booking systems across a communications network. The method comprises receiving,
at the resource management system, a request to book a resource from a computing
device of the one or more computing devices, the request comprising a resource
identifier and a mobile computing device identifier and creating a booking based on the
resource identifier. The method further comprises determining a virtual key associated
with the resource identifier, wherein the virtual key is configured to cooperate with an
access device co-located with the resource to permit access to the resource; and
providing a confirmation message to a mobile computing device of the one or more
computing devices associated with the mobile computing device identifier, wherein the
confirmation message comprises one of (i) the virtual key and (ii) a confirmation code
related to the virtual key to allow the virtual key to be retrieved.

E
                                       aa a
                E            E
      C: a)
           E CI a), EEE)
a,O a
              4
         m,- *z   ~
                       7E    E 7u5
            *n0               0 0
               0    04
                    0)                >
                                            -r
0
U,                L
                                               0     <00 -JI
                                                     Lq   (
                                       0
                                                 U 4
                        aDL.
                                   00

                                              1
        "Methods and systems for booking resources and access management of
                                      booked resources"
   Technical Field
   Described embodiments relate to methods and systems for booking resources and
 5 access management of booked resources. Some embodiments relate to methods
   and systems for resource management, such as booking resources and providing
   access to the booked resources. Some embodiments relate to methods and systems
   for booking resources and accessing the booked resources. Some embodiments
   relate to methods and systems for managing access to booked resources.
10 Background
   Booking and accessing of resources can be a time intensive and arduous process.
   For example, having booked accommodation in advance, in general patrons of
   hotels still need to undergo a check-in process at the hotel upon arriving. The
   check-in process is generally managed by staff at the hotel and may involve
15 verification of identification and provision of key(s) for the booked rooms(s).
   Hotels may also have systems to manage and track the allocation of rooms and keys
   to customers checking in. Similar processes are performed when booking and
   accessing other types of resources, such as car rentals.
   It is desired to address or ameliorate some of the disadvantages associated with
20 prior methods and systems for hotel room booking and room access management,
   or at least to provide a useful alternative thereto.
   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
   been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that
   any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general
25 knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the
   priority date of each of the appended claims.

                                            2
   Summary
   Some embodiments relate to a computer implemented method for booking a
   resource and providing access to the booked resource, the method being
   implemented on a resource management system configured to communicate with
 5 one or computing devices and one or more resource booking systems across a
   communications network, the method comprising:
         receiving, at the resource management system, a request to book a resource
   from a computing device of the one or more computing devices, the request
   comprising a resource identifier and a mobile computing device identifier;
10       creating a booking based on the resource identifier;
         determining a virtual key associated with the resource identifier, wherein the
   virtual key is configured to cooperate with an access device co-located with the
   resource to permit access to the resource; and
        providing a confirmation message to a mobile computing device of the one or
15 more computing devices associated with the mobile computing device identifier,
   wherein the confirmation message comprises the virtual key.
   In some embodiments, creating the booking comprises transmitting a booking
   confirmation request to the resource booking system to confirm the booking of the
   resource.
20 In some embodiments, determining the virtual key associated with the resource
   comprises retrieving the virtual key from a virtual key database based on the
   resource identifier.
   In some embodiments, the virtual key comprises one or more QR codes readable by
   the access device associated with the resource identifier.

                                              3
   In some embodiments, the request further comprises one or more of: (i) payment
   details and (ii) an indication of a duration for the booking.
   Some embodiments relate to a resource management system for booking resources
   and providing access to the booked resources, the system configured to
 5 communicate with one or computing devices and one or more resource booking
   systems across a communications network, the system comprising:
         one or more servers, each of the one or more servers comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
10 processors causes the one of more servers of the system to perform the method of
   for booking a resource and providing access to the booked resource.
   Some embodiments relate to a computer implemented method for booking a
   resource and accessing the booked resource, the method implemented on a mobile
   computing device configured to communicate with a resource management system
15 across a communications network, the method comprising:
         sending, from the mobile computing device, a request to book a resource to
   the resource management system, the request comprising a resource identifier and a
   mobile computing device identifier;
         receiving, at the mobile computing device, a confirmation message from the
20 accommodation management server, the confirmation message comprising a virtual
   key associated with the booked accommodation, wherein the virtual key is
   configured to cooperate with an access device co-located with the resource to
   permit access to the resource; and
         providing the virtual key to the access device co-located with the resource to
25 gain access the resource.

                                              4
   In some embodiments, providing the virtual key to the access device comprises one
   of (i) presenting the virtual key to a reader of the access device to allow the access
   device to scan the virtual key; and (ii) sending the virtual key to the access device
   using near field communication capability or Bluetooth based communication
 5 capability.
   Some embodiments relate to a mobile computing device for booking resources and
   accessing booked resources, the device configured to communicate with a resource
   management system across a first communications network and one or more
   locking devices across a second communications network, the device comprising:
10        one or more processors; and
          memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
   processors causes the mobile computing device to perform the method for booking
   resources and providing access to the booked resources.
   Some embodiments relate to a method of permitting access to a booked resource,
15 the method implemented by an access device configured to operate one or more
   locking mechanisms associated with a respective resource, the access device
   configured to communicate with one or more mobile devices over a
   communications network, the method comprising:
          receiving, at the access device, an access request from a mobile computing
20 device of the one or more mobile computing devices, the access request comprising
   a virtual key for a resource co-located with the access device;
          determining a validity of the virtual key for the resource;
          responsive to determining that the virtual key is valid for the resource,
   activating a locking mechanism associated with the resource to permit access to the
25 resource.

                                            5
   In some embodiments, determining the validity of the virtual key for the resource
   comprises comparing the virtual key with a stored virtual key for the resource and
   determining whether the virtual key is substantially equal to or different from the
   stored virtual key.
 5 In some embodiments, determining the validity of the virtual key for the resource,
   comprises: sending, from the access device, validation information to a resource
   access monitoring system, wherein the validation information comprises the virtual
   key and a resource identifier associated with the resource; and receiving, at the
   access device, an notification indicating the validity or invalidity of the virtual key
10 for the resource from the resource access monitoring system.
   Some embodiments relate to an access device for permitting access to booked
   resources, the access device configured to operate one or more locking mechanisms
   associated with respective booked resources and to communicate with one or more
   mobile computing devices over a communications network, the access device
15 comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
   processors causes the mobile computing device to perform the method for booking
   resources and providing access to the booked resources.
20 Some embodiments relate to a resource booking and management system for
   booking resources and providing access to the booked resources, the system
   comprising:
         the resource management system of any one of the described embodiments;
   and
25       one or more computing devices of any one of the described embodiments; and

                                           6
         one or more access devices of any one of the described embodiments.
   Some embodiments relate to a computer program product comprising computer
   readable code, which when executed by one or more processors is configured to
   perform any one of the described methods.
 5 Brief Description of Drawings
   Some embodiments will now be described by way of non-limiting examples with
   reference to the accompanying drawings.
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system for booking and access management of
   booked resources, according to some embodiments;
10 Figure 2 is a process flow diagram of a method of resource management according
   to some embodiments, the method being implemented by a resource management
   system of the system of Figure 1;
   Figure 3 is a process flow diagram of a method of booking a resource and gaining
   access to the booked resource, according to some embodiments, the method being
15 implemented by a mobile computing device of the system of Figure 1;
   Figure 4 is a process flow diagram of a method of managing access to booked
   resources, according to some embodiments, the method being implemented by an
   access device of the system of Figure 1;
   Figures 5 and 6 are example screenshots of a booking management platform
20 showing various stages involved in a booking process, according to some
   embodiments, the booking management platform being realised by a booking
   management application being executed by the resource management system of
   Figure 1; and

                                            7
   Figure 6 and 7 are example screenshots of an interface displayed on a screen of a
   computing device of the system of Figure 1.
   Description of Embodiments
   Described embodiments relate to methods and systems for booking resources and
 5 access management of booked resources. Some embodiments relate to methods
   and systems for resource management, such as booking resources and providing
   access to the booked resources. Some embodiments relate to methods and systems
   for booking resources and accessing the booked resources. Some embodiments
   relate to methods and systems for managing access to booked resources.
10 For example, resources according to described embodiments may relate to
   resources that may be booked and for which access is required for use or benefit of
   the resource. For example, resources may include rooms, such as hotel or hostel
   rooms, houses, flats, apartments, services facilities, such as gyms, vehicles, such as
   cars, bicycles, mopeds, motor bikes, or equipment, such as building equipment or
15 gym equipment for example.
   The described systems and methods for booking resources and accessing booked
   resources according to the described embodiments provide significant advantages
   over known prior art systems and methods. In particular, the described
   embodiments allow for streamlined booking of resources which enable users to
20 both book resources and acquire means necessary for accessing the booked
   resources, for example, using a virtual key, in one relatively straight forward
   process. Virtual keys according to the described embodiments may be directly
   obtained from a booking platform when booking a resource, thereby minimizing or
   eliminating further additional steps in securing and gaining access to a resource
25 once a booking has been made. Further virtual keys according to the described
   embodiments may not be lost and the expenses associated with replacement of lost
   physical keys or access cards may be avoided. The replacement of lost physical
   keys or access cards according to the prior art may have adverse environmental

                                              8
   consequences that the described embodiments help avoid. Additionally, a single
   virtual key according to the described embodiments may be shared across more
   than one mobile computing device by replication, enabling the sharing of access to
   a resource between more than one user, each user holding a mobile computing
 5 device and accessing the booked resource independently of other users.
   The streamlining of the process for booking of resources and management of access
   to booked resources also reduces human intervention necessary to facilitate booking
   and access. With reduced need for human intervention, the described systems and
   methods for booking resources and accessing booked resources may be more
10 scalable in terms of handling a larger number of resources and bookings while
   providing a more efficient and low-latency service requiring less human
   intervention. Virtual key based access to booked resources may also provide
   improved identity based security for managing access to booked resources. For
   example, access through virtual keys on mobile computing device may enable
15 tracking the identity of the mobile device along with the virtual key. In some
   embodiments, the combination of the virtual key and identity of the device may be
   verified to permit access to a booked resource as an extra layer of security.
   Figure 1 illustrates a block diagram of a system 100 for booking and access
   management of booked resources, according to some embodiments.
20 As illustrated, the system 100 may comprise a resource management system 102
   arranged to communicate with one or more computing devices 104 and one or more
   resource booking systems 106 across a communications network 108. In some
   embodiments, the system 100 comprises a client-server architecture where the
   resource management system 102 is configured as a server and at least one of the
25 computing devices 104 is configured as a client computing device.
   The network 108 may include, for example, at least a portion of one or more
   networks having one or more nodes that transmit, receive, forward, generate,
   buffer, store, route, switch, process, or a combination thereof, etc. one or more
30 messages, packets, signals, some combination thereof, or so forth. The network 108

                                             9
   may include, for example, one or more of: a wireless network, a wired network, an
   internet, an intranet, a public network, a packet-switched network, a circuit
   switched network, an ad hoc network, an infrastructure network, a public-switched
   telephone network (PSTN), a cable network, a cellular network, a satellite network,
 5 a fiber optic network, some combination thereof, or so forth.
   In some embodiments, the computing device 104 may comprise a mobile or hand
   held computing device such as a smartphone or tablet, a laptop, or a PC, and may,
   in some embodiments, comprise multiple computing devices.
   The resource management system 102 may comprise one or more servers (not
10 shown) configured to provide resource management services by executing a
   resource management application 110 stored in memory (not shown) associated
   with the one or more servers of the resource management system 102. For
   example, the resource management system 102 may include multiple processing
   components or multiple virtual or physical servers operating together. In some
15 embodiments, the resource management application 110 may comprise a booking
   management module 112 and a virtual key management module 114.
   The booking management module 112, when executed by one or more processors
   (not shown) of one or more servers (not shown) of the resource management
   system 102, may be configured to communicate with the resource booking system
20 106 across the communication network 108 to determine availability of resources
   associated with the resource booking system 106 and to book specific resources, for
   example, for a particular user and/or for a particular duration of time.
   The virtual key management module 114, when executed by one or more
   processors (not shown) of the one or more servers (not shown) of the resource
25 management system 102, may be configured to interrogate a virtual key database
   116 to determine a virtual key for a specific resource. In some embodiments, the
   virtual key associated with a particular resource is configured to cooperate with an
   access device 118, which may be co-located with the resource, to provide access to

                                            10
   the resource, for example, by causing the access device 118 to deactivate a locking
   mechanism 120 preventing access to the resource. The virtual key database 116
   may form part of or be directly connected to the resource management system 102
   or may be accessed by the resource management system 102 across
 5 communications network 108 or any other suitable network.
   In some embodiments, the resource management system 102 may be configured as
   a web server system that is capable of serving content such as web pages and other
   content in accordance with a protocol such as the hypertext transfer protocol
   (HTTP). For example, when supported by and combined with an application
10 framework and typical server-side functions, such as web server functions, data
   processing functions and data storage and retrieval function, the resource
   management application 110 provides a resource booking platform (an example of
   which is illustrated in Figures 5 and 6) which may encompass activities that may be
   viewed as being performed or executed at the one or more computing devices 104.
15 However, it will be understood that activities performed or executed at the
   computing devices 104 are reliant on program code (including applets, where
   appropriate) served by the resource management system 102 to the computing
   devices 104 and executed by a browser application (not shown). The functionality
   of the booking platform is therefore driven by code executed and served by the
20 resource management system 102.
   The resource management application 110 may allow programmatic interaction of
   remote applications to exchange information with the resource booking system 106
   via defined APIs ("application program interfaces"). The resource management
   services may be defined and implemented using a variety of underlying protocols
25 and techniques. For example, some embodiments may rely on data communication
   in XML ("eXtensible Markup Language") format using HTTP ("Hyper Text
   Transport Protocol") in response to a request from the booking management
   module 112 specified as a URI ("Uniform Resource Identifier"), such as a URL
   ("Uniform Resource Locator") that includes a specified operation and one or more
30 query parameters. Such URI-based requests may, for example, be based on the use

                                            11
   of XML over HTTP (e.g., as part of the Representational State Transfer, or
   "REST", distributed interaction model). In some embodiments, additional
   underlying protocols may be used for various purposes, such as SOAP ("Simple
   Object Access Protocol") for standard message exchange, WSDL ("Web Services
 5 Description Language") for description of service invocations, and UDDI
   ("Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration service") for discovery of
   available services.
   The resource booking system 106 may comprise one or more servers (not shown)
   configured to provide a resource booking service by executing a resource booking
10 application 122 stored in memory (not shown) associated with the one or more
   servers of the resource booking system 106. The resource booking system 106 is
   configured to maintain a register of resources available for booking through the
   resource booking system 106. The resource booking system 106 is further
   configured to provide or otherwise make available to the booking management
15 module 112 of the resource management system 102 information about the
   availability of resources and to book a resource, i.e., to make resources unavailable
   for booking, in response to receiving a booking confirmation from the resource
   management system 102. It will, however, be appreciated, that resources may be
   booked with the resource booking system 106 in other ways, for example, by a
20 computing device 104 communicating directly with the resource booking system
   106 or an operator manually booking a resource in response to a request made by a
   person. In some embodiments, the resource booking system 106 may be configured
   to provide or otherwise make available to the virtual key management module 112
   of the resource management system 102 information about the virtual keys
25 associated with particular resources. In some embodiments, the resource booking
   system 106 may be configured to provide or otherwise make available to the
   resource access application 126 of the computing device 104 information about a
   booked resource, which may include, for example, credentials for accessing the
   booked resource.

                                           12
   The resource booking application 122 may allow programmatic interaction of
   remote applications to exchange information via defined APIs ("application
   program interfaces"). The resource booking application 122 may be defined and
   implemented using a variety of underlying protocols and techniques. For example,
 5 some embodiments may rely on data communication in XML ("eXtensible Markup
   Language") format using HTTP ("Hyper Text Transport Protocol") in response
   to a request from the resource access application 126 or the resource management
   application 110 specified as a URI ("Uniform Resource Identifier"), such as a URL
   ("Uniform Resource Locator") that includes a specified operation and one or more
10 query parameters. Such URI-based requests may, for example, be based on the use
   of XML over HTTP (e.g., as part of the Representational State Transfer, or
   "REST", distributed interaction model). In some embodiments, additional
   underlying protocols may be used for various purposes, such as SOAP ("Simple
   Object Access Protocol") for standard message exchange, WSDL ("Web Services
15 Description Language") for description of service invocations, and UDDI
   ("Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration service") for discovery of
   available services.
   The one or more computing devices 104 each comprise one or more processors (not
   shown) and memory (not shown) which includes an operating system and a number
20 of software applications or applets executable by the one or more processors to
   perform various device-related functions. For example, at least one such software
   application includes a browser application 124 for enabling a user to navigate to
   sites accessible over the communications network 108 to receive content
   therefrom. In some examples, the browser application 124 can be used to
25 communicate with the resource management system 102 to request content
   therefrom, in the form of one or more web pages provided as program code to the
   browser application and executable by the processor(s) of the computing device
   102. According to some embodiments, the resource management system 102 is
   configured to serve code to the computing device 104 to provide an online resource
30 booking platform generated by browser application 124 and viewable on a display
   (not shown) of a user interface (not shown) of the computing device 104.

                                             13
   The resource booking platform may provide user interfaces that allow a user to
   search for resources using particular key terms and/or criteria. For example, where
   the resource to be booked is a hotel room, the resource booking platform may
   provide user interfaces that allow a user to enter specific location(s) and/or specific
 5 date(s) to search for an available hotel room meeting the search criteria. In
   response to user inputting search criteria, the booking management module 112 of
   the resource management application 110 may determine and provide to the
   resource booking platform a list of available hotels. The resource booking platform
   may allow the user to navigate through the results and to select a particular hotel.
10 Upon selecting a particular hotel, the user may be prompted to make a payment for
   the hotel booking, for example, by providing payment details. During the booking
   process, the user may also be queried as to whether he or she would like to avail of
   keyless entry to the hotel room, as discussed below in more detail.
   In some embodiments, the browser application 124 may be supplemented by a
15 special-purpose add-on or may be substituted by special-purpose client software
   (i.e. an "app" for a smart-phone or tablet device) in order to perform the functions
   described herein or to facilitate such functions. For example, for the computing
   device 104, a special purpose application may be downloaded from the resource
   management system 102 or a separate dedicated download server (not shown) and
20 installed on the computing device 104. When such a special purpose application is
   executing on the computing devices 104, it may facilitate appropriate formatting,
   interaction, display and input to enable the user interface functionality described
   herein. Such a special purpose application may comprise a resource access
   application 126 configured to cooperate with application software running on the
25 access device 118. In some embodiments, the resource access application 126 is
   configured to receive and store a virtual key associated with a particular resource,
   from for example, the resource management system 102, and to provide the virtual
   key to the access device 118 associated with the resource to deactivate a locking
   mechanism 120 preventing access to the resource.

                                              14
   The resource access application 126 may be configured to communicate with the
   resource management system 102 to request and/or receive information from the
   resource management system 102. In some embodiments, the resource access
   application 126 is configured to receive and store a virtual key associated with a
 5 particular resource, from the resource management system 102, for example, and to
   provide the virtual key to the access device 118 associated with the resource to
   deactivate a locking mechanism 120 preventing access to the resource. In some
   embodiments, the resource access application 126 is configured to receive and store
   booking confirmation details associated with a booked resource, for example, a
10 resource identifier, relevant dates, payment confirmation details, etc.
   The access devices 118 are configured to communicate with the resource access
   application 126 of the mobile computing device 104 to determine a virtual key
   associated with a particular resource that is being managed under the control of the
   access device 118. For example, the resource access application 126 of the mobile
15 computing device 104 may be configured to communicate with the access device
   118 using near field communication capability or Bluetooth based communication
   capability. In some embodiments, the virtual key may comprise a QR codes which
   is readable or scannable by the access device 118.
   The access devices 118 are each associated with one or more resources and a
20 respective one or more locking mechanisms 120. When activated by the access
   device 118, or otherwise, the locking mechanisms 120 prevent access to the
   respective resource. In some embodiments, the access devices 118 comprise one or
   more processors and memory comprising computing code, which when executed by
   the one or more processors is configured to control operations of the access device
25 118. For example, the access device 118 may be configured to determine a virtual
   key provided on or received from a mobile computing device 104, determine a
   validity of the virtual key for a particular resource and in response to determining
   that the virtual key is valid for that resource, deactivate a locking mechanism 120
   associated with the resource to allow access to the resource. In some embodiments,
30 the access devices 118 are configured to communicate with the resource booking

                                            15
   system 106 or other servers (not shown) associated with the management of the
   resources to determine the validity of a virtual key for a particular resource. For
   example, the resource booking system 106 or other servers (not shown) may query
   a register of virtual keys for resources and compare the virtual key for the resource
 5 to an entry in the register to determine its validity, for example, by determining
   whether a booking has been made and the virtual key is active, and/or whether the
   virtual key matches records in the register for the particular resource.
   Figure 2 is a process flow diagram of a method 200 of resource management
   according to some embodiments. The method 200 may be implemented by a
10 resource management system 102. In particular, one or more processors of the
   resource management system 102 may be configured to execute the resource
   management application 110 to cause the resource management system 102 to
   perform the method 200.
   Referring now to Figure 2, a request to book a resource is received at the resource
15 management system 102 from a computing device 104, at 202. The request
   comprises a resource identifier and a mobile computing device identifier. In some
   embodiments, the request further includes one or more of an indication of a
   duration for booking of the resource, any particular special requests and payment
   details.
20 In some embodiments, the resource management application 110 is configured to
   retrieve details of resources in response to a query received from the computing
   device 104 and to display the details on the booking platform to allow a user to
   select a resource and to submit the request for a booking. In some embodiments,
   the booking management module 112 determines whether resources are available
25 and any further details about the resources from a resource register 128 which may
   be local to or remote from the resource management system 102, and which is
   periodically and/or regularly updated by one or more resource booking systems 106
   associated with the resources. In some embodiments, the booking management

                                            16
   module 112 determines whether resources are available and any further details
   about the resources by querying one or more resource booking system 106.
   For example, a resource information query may be initiated by the booking
   management module 112 submitting a HTTP POST request to a designated URL of
 5 the resource booking application 122 in an XML format. The resource information
   query may also include credentials to validate and authorize the booking of the
   resource by the resource booking application 122. Below is an example of a HTTP
   POST request in XML format:
           <gethotels>
10                   <usertoken>
                     <userid>xxxx</userid>
                     <password>yyyy</password>
                     </usertoken>
           </gethotels>
15
           The resource booking application 122 may return a response to the query
           above in the following format:
           <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
           <hotels>
20                   <hotel>
                     <hotelid>1</hotelid>
                     <hotelname>test-hotel- 1</hotelname>
                     </hotel>
           </hotels>
25 The booking management module 112 may further query the resource booking
   application 122 for details of available resources with particular criteria, for
   example, available resources in particular locations. Below is an example of a query
   for hotel room types for a hotel with hotel id 71656:
           <getroomtypes>
30                   <usertoken>
                     <userid>xxxx</userid>
                     <password>yyyy</password>
                     <hotelid>71656</hotelid>

                                            17
                     </usertoken>
           </getroomtypes>
   An example of response generated by the resource booking application 122 to the
   above query may be in the following format:
 5         <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
                     <roomtypes>
                     <roomtype>
                           <id>142790</id>
                           <description>standard</description>
10                   </roomtype>
                     <roomtype>
                           <id>145612</id>
                                   <description>2 bedroom apartment</description>
                     </roomtype>
15                   <roomtype>
                           <id>148227</id>
                           <description>superior</description>
                     </roomtype>
                     <roomtype>
20                         <id>97356</id>
                           <description>deluxe</description>
                     </roomtype>
                     </roomtypes>
   A user at the computing device 104 may navigate the details of the resources
25 displayed on the booking platform and select a resource and cause the request to
   book the associated resource to be sent to the resource management system 102.
   Referring again to Figure 2, the resource management system 102, and in
   particular, the booking management module 112, creates a booking based on the
   resource identifier, at 204. In some embodiments, the booking management
30 module 112 transmits a booking confirmation request to the resource booking
   application 122 of the resource booking system. The booking confirmation request
   comprises the resource identifier and may further include additional information
   about the booking.

                                          18
   Below is an example of a booking confirmation request being sent to the resource
   booking application 122 by the booking management module 112:
          <booking>
                   <username>xxxxxx</username>
 5                 <password>yyyyy</password>
                   <bookingtime>2010-11-22 18:37:48</bookingtime>
                   <bookingid>3345</bookingid>
                   <bookingstatus>Confirmed</bookingstatus>
                   <hotelname>third party site hotel</hotelname>
10                 <hotelid>4</hotelid>
                   <arrivaldate>2010-11-24</arrivaldate>
                   <departuredate>2010-11-30</departuredate>
                   <currencycode>aud</currencycode>
                   <totalcost>620.00</totalcost>
15                 <roomid>6</roomid>
                   <roomquantity> 1</roomquantity>
                   <guestcount>2</guestcount>
                   <arrivaltime>02:00</arrivaltime>
                   <guestname>guest</guestname>
20                 <guestphone>+64-9-123456</guestphone>
                   <guestemail>admin@myproperties.com</guestemail>
                   <specialrequest>Test </specialrequest>
                   <deposit>0</deposit>
                   <depositdescription></depositdescription>
25                 <refer></refer>
                   <addons>
                         <addon>
                         <id> 1</id>
                         <name>breakfast</name>
30                       <unitcost> 10</unitcost>
                         <quantity>2</quantity>
                         <total> 100</total>
                         <nights>5</nights>
                         </addon>
35                       <addon>
                                 <id>2</id>
                                 <name>box of chocolate on arrival</name>
                                 <unitcost>20</unitcost>
                                 <quantity> 1</quantity>
40                               <total>20</total>
                                 <nights>-</nights>
                         </addon>
                   <addontotal> 120</addontotal>
                   </addons>
45        </booking>

                                             19
   In some embodiments, the resource booking application 122 determines whether to
   confirm or deny the booking confirmation request and sends a response to the
   booking management module 112. In some embodiments, if the resource booking
 5 application 122 confirms the booking, the resource booking application 122 may
   update a resource register to reflect the booking and, for example, to mitigate
   multiple bookings for the same periods for the same resource being made. In some
   embodiments, the booking management module 112 updates details about the
   resource in the resource register 128.
10 The resource management application 110, and in particular, the virtual key
   management module 114, determines a virtual key for the booked resource, at 206.
   In some embodiments, the virtual key management module 114 queries a virtual
   key database 116 using the resource identifier to determine the virtual key
   associated with the resource identified by the resource identifier.
15 In some embodiments, the resource management application 110 determines
   whether a mobile computing device 204 associated with the mobile computing
   device identifier has a resource access application 126 deployed thereon, at 208.
   For example, the resource management application 110 may query a resource
   access application register (not shown) using information about the user or the
20 mobile computing device, such as the mobile computing device identifier, to
   determine whether the resource access application 126 has been downloaded to the
   mobile computing device 204 associated with the user, such as the mobile
   computing device identified by the mobile computing device identifier. In some
   embodiments, the resource management application 110 may send a query to the
25 computing device 104 to determine if the resource access application 126 is
   deployed thereon. If it is determined that the resource access application 126 is not
   deployed on the mobile computing device 104, the resource management
   application 110 prompts the computing device 104, for example, by way of sending
   a link to download the resource access application 126, to obtain the resource
30 access application 126, at 210, and the method reverts to 208.

                                            20
   If it is determined that the resource access application 126 is deployed on the
   mobile computing device 104, the resource management application 110 provides a
   confirmation message comprising the virtual key associated with the booked
   resource to the mobile computing device 104 associated with the mobile computing
 5 device identifier, at 212. In some embodiments, as opposed to providing the virtual
   key directly to the mobile computing device via the confirmation message, the
   virtual key may be provided indirectly to the mobile computing device, for
   example, by providing a confirmation code relating to the virtual key as opposed to
   the virtual key in the confirmation message. In embodiments where a confirmation
10 code relating to a virtual key is provided, the confirmation code may be used to
   retrieve and download the related virtual key to the mobile computing device 104,
   for example, from a website, an address of which may be provided in the
   confirmation message.
   In some embodiments, the resource management application 110 does not
15 determine whether a mobile computing device 204 associated with the mobile
   computing device identifier has a resource access application 126 deployed thereon
   and instead either provides a confirmation message comprising the virtual key
   associated with the booked resource to the mobile computing device 104 associated
   with the mobile computing device identifier, as at 212, or provides a confirmation
20 message comprising a confirmation code relating to the virtual key associated with
   the booked resource to the mobile computing device 104 associated with the mobile
   computing device identifier. For example, in some cases, it may be unnecessary for
   the mobile computing device 204 to have a resource management application 110
   to receive and use a virtual key to access a resource. In embodiments where a
25 confirmation code relating to a virtual key is provided, the confirmation code may
   be used to retrieve and download the related virtual key to the mobile computing
   device 104, for example, from a website, an address of which may be provided in
   the confirmation message.
   Figure 3 is a process flow diagram of a method 300 of booking a resource and
30 gaining access to the booked resource, according to some embodiments. The

                                             21
   method 300 may be implemented by a mobile computing device 104. In particular,
   one or more processors of the computing device 104 may be configured to execute
   the browser application 124 and the resource access application to cause the
   computing device 102 to perform the method 300.
 5 A request to book a resource is sent from the computing device 104 to the resource
   management system 102, at 302. As described above, the computing device 204 is
   configured to display a booking platform to the user to allow the user to generate
   the request to book the resource. The request comprises a resource identifier
   associated with the resource to be booked and a mobile computing device identifier.
10 In some embodiments, the mobile computing device identifier may be an identifier
   of the computing device 104, such as a phone number.
   A confirmation message comprising a virtual key is received at the mobile
   computing device 104 associated with the mobile computing device identifier, at
   304. In some embodiments, instead of a virtual key, the confirmation message may
15 comprise a confirmation code relating to the virtual key. The confirmation code
   may be used to retrieve and download the related virtual key thereafter.
   The virtual key is used to gain access to the booked resource. The virtual key is
   caused to cooperate with an access device 118 associated with the booked resource
   to provide access to the resource, at 306. In some embodiments, the resource
20 access application 126 is configured to communicate with the access device 118 to
   gain access to the resource. Responsive to the access device 118 determining that
   the virtual key is valid for the particular resource, the virtual key provides access to
   the resource.
   The resource access application 126 using the virtual key may be configured to
25 communicate with the access device using near field communication (NFC)
   capability or Bluetooth based communication capability. In some embodiments,
   the virtual key may comprise a QR codes which is readable or scannable by the
   access device 118.

                                            22
   Figure 4 is a process flow diagram of a method 400 of managing access to booked
   resources, according to some embodiments. The method may be implemented by
   an access device 118 of the system 100. In particular, one or more processors of
   the access device 118 may be configured to execute instructions (computer code) to
 5 cause the access device 118 to perform the method 400.
   An access request for access to a resource co-located or otherwise associated with
   an access device 118 is received from a mobile computing device 104 at the access
   device 118, at 402. For example, the access request may be received from a
   resource access application 126 deployed on the mobile computing device 104.
10 The access request comprises a virtual key associated with the resource. In some
   embodiments, the access request further comprises a resource identifier associated
   with the resource and the virtual key.
   Validity of the virtual key for a particular resource is determined, at 404. In some
   embodiments, the access device 118 communicates with the resource booking
15 system 106 or other servers (not shown) associated with the management of the
   resources to determine the validity of a virtual key for a particular resource. In
   some embodiments, relevant validity information may be stored locally in memory
   of the access device 118 and interrogated to determine the validity of the presented
   virtual key for the resource. Validity of the virtual key may depend on the date and
20 time at which the access request was received.
   In some embodiments, the access device 118 may cause the resource access
   application 126 to prompt the user to undertake certain identification verification or
   compliance steps before granting access to the resource. For example, in some
   embodiments, the resource access application 126 may prompt the user to provide
25 documentation such as a proof of identification. The documentation may be
   communicated by the resource access application 126 to the resource booking
   system 106 or other relevant sever or system (not shown) for example, for record
   keeping purposes.

                                              23
   If it is determined that the virtual key is valid for the resource, at 406, access to the
   resource is permitted, at 410. For example, in some embodiments, the access device
   118 communicates with a respective locking mechanism 120, directly or via a
   communications network (not shown), to deactivate the locking mechanism 120
 5 and provide access to the resource.
   If it is determined that the virtual key is not valid for the resource, at 406, access to
   the resource is denied, at 410. In some embodiments, the access device 118 may
   report to the resource booking system 106 or other associated server or system a
   denial of entry with the details of the presented virtual key or credential. This may
10 assist in monitoring attempts of unauthorised entry.
    Figure 5 illustrates an example screenshot 500 of a booking platform for a hotel
    resource as shown on an interface of a computing device 104. Region 505 allows
    the user to enter a desired destination to search for hotels. Through user selectable
    options shown at regions 510, the user may enter the relevant check-in and check
15  out dates. A list of all the hotels available according to the criterion entered by the
    user is displayed in a display window 515. A map view of the identified hotels is
    shown at map view window 520.
   Figure 6 illustrates another example screenshot 600 of a booking platform 602 for a
   hotel resource as shown on an interface of a computing device 104. Region 605 of
20 the booking platform 602 displays details of a booking made by a user. In
   particular, check-in and check-out dates, number of guests and rooms are displayed
   for confirmation and review by the user. Section 610 of the booking platform 602
   displays relevant add-ons applicable to the booking. One relevant add on is the
   ability to make a keyless entry to the hotel room. By selecting a user selectable
25 option 615, the user may indicate his or her interest in seeking keyless entry to the
   booked hotel room upon arrival.
   Figure 7 illustrates an example screenshot 700 of an interface 702 of the resource
   access application 126, which may for example, be presented to the user when

                                            24
   activating the resource access application 126 for a first time. The user is prompted
   to enter his or her phone number in region 710 and a confirmation code by the user
   in region 720. For example, the phone number entered by the user may correspond
   with the mobile computing device identified provided to the resource management
 5 system 102 at 302 of method 300 as shown in Figure 3. The confirmation code may
   be provided to the user's computing device 104 when the resource access
   application 126 is downloaded or installed on the computing device 104. The
   confirmation code may be provided to the user's computing device 104 through a
   messaging service such as an SMS or an MMS or an email. After entering the
10 phone number and confirmation code in interface 700, the user may confirm the
   details entered using a confirm button 730. After the user presses the confirm
   button 730, the entered details are communicated by the resource access application
   126 to the resource booking system 106 to retrieve information pertinent to the
   booked resource. The resource management system 102 may also return to the
15 resource access application 126, details of the user's booking, as illustrated in
   Figure 8.
   Figure 8 illustrates an example screenshot 800 of an interface 802 of the resource
   access application 126. The interface 802 displays details of a confirmed hotel
   room booking allowing for validation by the user of received booking information.
20 For example, region 810 displays the relevant dates for which the booking is valid,
   and region 820 displays the allocated room number to the booking. In some
   embodiments, the room number may not be allocated immediately after a booking
   and there may be an intervening period between the making of a booking by the
   user and allocation of a room to the booking made by the user. The interface 802
25 also provides a button 830 associated with a virtual key for the booked resource.
   Pressing the button 830 while placing the mobile computing device 104 in a
   vicinity of the access device 118, which, in this case may be a hotel door lock
   device, initiates transmission of the virtual key or credential details to the access
   device 118 for verification. For example, this may correspond with 306 of method
30 300 as shown in Figure 3.

                                             25
   In some embodiments, the resource access application 126 may allow the sharing of
   the virtual key or credential across multiple mobile devices 104, each device
   executing the resource access application 126. The mobile device 104 registered
   during the booking process may be known as a primary mobile device. The primary
 5 mobile device, through the resource access application may share the received
   virtual key or credentials to other secondary mobile devices executing the resource
   access application. This may be advantageous where multiple people are to avail of
   the booked resource or multiple booked resources are associated with the same
   virtual key.
10 It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing
   from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments
   are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                            26
     CLAIMS:
1.      A computer implemented method for booking a resource and providing access
to the booked resource, the method being implemented on a resource management
system configured to communicate with one or computing devices and one or more
resource booking systems across a communications network, the method comprising:
        receiving, at the resource management system, a request to book a resource from
a computing device of the one or more computing devices, the request comprising a
resource identifier and a mobile computing device identifier;
        creating a booking based on the resource identifier;
        determining a virtual key associated with the resource identifier, wherein the
virtual key is configured to cooperate with an access device co-located with the
resource to permit access to the resource; and
        providing a confirmation message to a mobile computing device of the one or
more computing devices associated with the mobile computing device identifier,
wherein the confirmation message comprises one of (i) the virtual key and (ii) a
confirmation code related to the virtual key to allow the virtual key to be retrieved.
2.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein creating the booking
comprises transmitting a booking confirmation request to the resource booking system
to confirm the booking of the resource.
3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein determining the virtual key
associated with the resource comprises retrieving the virtual key from a virtual key
database based on the resource identifier.
4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the virtual key
comprises one or more QR codes readable by the access device associated with the
resource identifier.

                                              27
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the request further comprises one or more of:
(i) payment details and (ii) an indication of a duration for the booking.
6.      A resource management system for booking resources and providing access to
the booked resources, the system configured to communicate with one or computing
devices and one or more resource booking systems across a communications network,
the system comprising:
        one or more servers, each of the one or more servers comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
processors causes the one of more servers of the system to perform the method of any
one of claims I to 5.
7.      A computer implemented method for booking a resource and accessing the
booked resource, the method implemented on a mobile computing device configured to
communicate with a resource management system across a communications network,
the method comprising:
        sending, from the mobile computing device, a request to book a resource to the
resource management system, the request comprising a resource identifier and a mobile
computing device identifier;
        receiving, at the mobile computing device, a confirmation message from the
accommodation management server, the confirmation message comprising one of (i) a
virtual key associated with the booked accommodation and (ii) a confirmation code
related to the virtual key to allow the virtual key to be retrieved, wherein the virtual key
is configured to cooperate with an access device co-located with the resource to permit
access to the resource; and

                                             28
        providing the virtual key to the access device co-located with the resource to
gain access the resource.
8.      The method of claim 7, wherein providing the virtual key to the access device
comprises one of (i) presenting the virtual key to a reader of the access device to allow
the access device to scan the virtual key; and (ii) sending the virtual key to the access
device using near field communication capability or Bluetooth based communication
capability.
9.      A mobile computing device for booking resources and accessing booked
resources, the device configured to communicate with a resource management system
across a first communications network and one or more locking devices across a
second communications network, the device comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
processors causes the mobile computing device to perform the method of any one of
claims 6 to 8.
10.     A method of permitting access to a booked resource, the method implemented
by an access device configured to operate one or more locking mechanisms associated
with a respective resource, the access device configured to communicate with one or
more mobile devices over a communications network, the method comprising:
        receiving, at the access device, an access request from a mobile computing
device of the one or more mobile computing devices, the access request comprising a
virtual key for a resource co-located with the access device;
        determining a validity of the virtual key for the resource;
        responsive to determining that the virtual key is valid for the resource, activating
a locking mechanism associated with the resource to permit access to the resource.

                                             29
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein determining the validity of the virtual key for
the resource comprises comparing the virtual key with a stored virtual key for the
resource and determining whether the virtual key is substantially equal to or different
from the stored virtual key.
12.     The method of claim 10, wherein determining the validity of the virtual key for
the resource, comprises:
        sending, from the access device, validation information to a resource access
monitoring system, wherein the validation information comprises the virtual key and a
resource identifier associated with the resource; and
        receiving, at the access device, an notification indicating the validity or
invalidity of the virtual key for the resource from the resource access monitoring
system.
13.     An access device for permitting access to booked resources, the access device
configured to operate one or more locking mechanisms associated with respective
booked resources and to communicate with one or more mobile computing devices
over a communications network, the access device comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        memory comprising computer code, which when executed by the one or more
processors causes the mobile computing device to perform the method of any one of
claims 10 to 12.
14.     A resource booking and management system for booking resources and
providing access to the booked resources, the system comprising:
        the resource management system of claim 6; and
        one or more computing devices of claim 9; and

                                          30
       one or more access devices of claim 13.
15.    A computer program product comprising computer readable code, which when
executed by one or more processors is configured to perform the method of any one of
claims I to 5, 7, 8, and 10 to 12.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                              2/7
<removed-date>
                 <U+2605><U+2729><U+2729>
                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701>                <U+2605><U+2729><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271D><U+2704><U+2720><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2706>
                                            <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D>
                                            <U+2717><U+271D><U+2701><U+2706><U+2721><U+2701> <U+2706> <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B><U+270C><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2706><U+2720><U+2701><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701>                <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>
                                                           <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D>
                                           <U+2718><U+2701><U+2721><U+2701><U+271D><U+270F><U+2704><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706> <U+260E><U+2704><U+271D><U+2721><U+271F><U+2706><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2701><U+2719> <U+2706><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2702><U+2704><U+2706><U+2721><U+2701><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2704><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701>            <U+2605><U+2729><U+272B>
                                                      <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2605><U+2729><U+272C>
                                                <U+2718><U+261B><U+2701><U+2720> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                             <U+2706><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2702><U+2704><U+2706><U+2721><U+2701><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2704><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713>           <U+272F><U+2701><U+2720>
                                             <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2720><U+2720>
                                                          <U+2706><U+2711><U+2711><U+2716><U+2704><U+2702><U+2706><U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2712><U+272D>
                                                  <U+2605><U+272E><U+2729>
              <U+271B><U+271D><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2721> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713>                               <U+2730><U+261B>
              <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2702><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701>
                  <U+2706><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2711><U+2716><U+2704><U+2702><U+2706><U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2712>
                                            <U+271B><U+271D><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704><U+2714><U+2701> <U+2706> <U+2702><U+261B><U+2712><U+2715><U+2704><U+271D><U+270F><U+2706><U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270F><U+2701><U+2720><U+2720><U+2706><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271D><U+2704><U+2720><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713>               <U+2605><U+272E><U+2605>
                                           <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2704><U+271D><U+2721><U+271F><U+2706><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2701><U+2719> <U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                           <U+2706><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2702><U+2704><U+2706><U+2721><U+2701><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2704><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2701> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E><U+2704><U+2716><U+2701> <U+2702><U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                              <U+2704><U+2714><U+2701><U+2712><U+2721><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704><U+2701><U+271D>
                                                        <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727>

                                       3/7
<removed-date>
              <U+2718><U+2719><U+2719>
                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+261E> <U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+260E>
                     <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701> <U+270D><U+260E><U+2702><U+260E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720> <U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2720>        <U+2718><U+2719><U+272A>
                    <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+2713><U+2706><U+2714><U+271F><U+2714><U+2702><U+270E> <U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701> <U+2714><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2701><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E> <U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2714><U+2716><U+2701>
                            <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+2713><U+271E><U+2720><U+2714><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2717><U+2714><U+270C><U+2701> <U+2714><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2701><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+271A><U+2701><U+270C><U+2701><U+2714><U+2717><U+2701> <U+260E> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2702><U+2715><U+2714><U+2706><U+270D><U+260E><U+2720><U+2714><U+2721><U+2702> <U+270D><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F><U+260E><U+270E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+2713><U+2706><U+2714><U+271F><U+2714><U+2702><U+270E> <U+260E>     <U+2718><U+2719><U+272B>
                      <U+2717><U+2714><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+260E><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721><U+270C><U+2714><U+260E><U+2720><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>
                                      <U+2714><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2701><U+2706>
                     <U+271C><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2717><U+2714><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2721><U+2713><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E><U+2720><U+2701> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2720><U+2712> <U+260E><U+2702>
                     <U+260E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2717><U+2714><U+270C><U+2701> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2716><U+2721><U+270C><U+260E><U+2720><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>     <U+2718><U+2719><U+272C>
                      <U+260E><U+271F><U+271F><U+2721><U+270C><U+2714><U+260E><U+2720><U+2701><U+2704> <U+271B><U+2714><U+2720><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701> <U+2714><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2720><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+2701><U+2706> <U+2720><U+2721>
                           <U+2713><U+2706><U+2721><U+2717><U+2714><U+2704><U+2701> <U+260E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+271E><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701>
                                 <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729>

                                                    4/7
<removed-date>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2701><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+271F><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2720> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261E><U+270D> <U+271E>
                                   <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+261E><U+2701><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2704><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2711><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>          <U+2719><U+271A><U+272A>
                                  <U+261E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2701><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+271F><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2715><U+2716><U+2720><U+2704><U+271F><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+261E><U+261B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2720>
                                                   <U+261E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
                                   <U+271B><U+2701><U+261E><U+2701><U+2720><U+2715><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701> <U+260E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2704><U+2711><U+2704><U+261E><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2713><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+261E><U+261B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2713><U+2701>        <U+2719><U+271A><U+2719>
                                                    <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2719><U+271A><U+272B>
                                   <U+272E><U+270D>         <U+2605><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+261E><U+261B><U+271E><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2718> <U+260E><U+271E><U+270F><U+2704><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2720>          <U+272F><U+2701><U+271F>
                                                      <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
                                              <U+2719><U+272D><U+271A>                                                    <U+2719><U+271A><U+272C>
               <U+271B><U+2701><U+2706><U+2718> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>                                   <U+2729><U+2701><U+2720><U+2715><U+2704><U+261E> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2701><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727>

                                      5/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                <U+271F>
                                            <U+2721>
                                                <U+271E>
                              <U+271F>
                          <U+2720>
                              <U+271E>
                                                    <U+271D>
                                                    <U+2706>
                                                    <U+260E>
                                                    <U+2704>
                                                    <U+2702>
                                                    <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+271F>
                                  <U+271E>
                  <U+2721>
                                                <U+271E>
                      <U+271F>
                                            <U+2720>
                      <U+271E>
                                                <U+271E>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271E>

                                  6/7
<removed-date>               <U+2720>
                              <U+271F>
                              <U+271E>
<removed-apn>
                                            <U+271F>
                                        <U+2721>
                                            <U+271E>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                                        <U+2706>
                                                        <U+260E>
                                                        <U+2704>
                                                        <U+2702>
                                                        <U+2701>
                  <U+261B>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>
                                                <U+2720>
                                                <U+2721>
                                                    <U+271E>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271E>

                              7/7
<removed-date>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+261E>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2704>
                      <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                        <U+2701>
                          <U+2720>
                                            <U+2720>
                          <U+261B>
                                                            <U+2720>
                                        <U+261E>
                          <U+2721>
                                                        <U+270C>
                                            <U+2721>
                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                        <U+260E>
                  <U+261E>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2704>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                        <U+2701>
                                    <U+2720>                               <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2720>
                                    <U+261B>                           <U+270C>
                                                <U+261E>
                                    <U+271F>                               <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
                                                    <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F>

