ABSTRACT
A soilless plant cultivating container which includes a body having a flow
channel defined therethrough; an arm extending at an angle of 1 to 179
degrees away from the body; and a receptacle defined on an opposing region
of the arm for receiving and supporting a plant therein, wherein the body, arm
and receptacle are in fluid communication with one another so as to allow fluid
received by the receptacle, to flow downstream of the arm towards the body.

      1/9
   -
   --
CT        \\
 VIN
             .........

                      SOILLESS PLANT CULTIVATING CONTAINER
CROSS-REFERENCE TO OTHER APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015358637which       is   a   national   phase  application    of  International  Application   No.
PCT/ZA2015/000028, filed on 24 April 2015, and claiming priority from South African Patent
Application No. 2015/1201, filed on 23 February 2015. The disclosure of these applications are
incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] This disclosure relates to soilless plant cultivating containers for soilless cultivation of
plants, more specifically, to soilless containers for high density cultivation of plants in a general
vertically orientation relative to a ground surface.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Soilless growing systems exist where plants such as vegetables are cultivated by exposure
to constant supply of nutrient containing fluid. Some of the problems associated with such
commonly known soilless plant cultivating containers and or tubes are that the nutrient rich fluid
tend to escape through the planting holes in the containers, especially when orientated
substantially vertically relative to a ground surface and, as a result of the rich nutrient levels,
causes overgrowing of unwanted algae on the outer surface of the containers and/or tubes.
[0004] Another problem associated with soilless cultivation of plants is that, due to the constant
exposure of roots to fluid, little or no oxygen is available for uptake by the plant roots. Oxygen is
an essential plant nutrient and plant root systems require oxygen for aerobic respiration, an
essential plant process that releases energy for root growth and nutrient uptake. Injury from low
                                                     I

(or no) oxygen in the root zone can take several forms and differs in severity between plant
types.
[0005] Soilless plant systems are associated with high capital investment, thus, the higher the
density of plants per square meter in a typical soilless greenhouse type environment, the better
the financial returns on investment.
[0006]           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this
application.
SUMMARY
[0007] Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
[0008] In some embodiments of the disclosure, there is provided a soilless plant cultivating
container, which includes;
        an elongate body of generally wave shaped form and having a flow channel defined
therethrough; and
        at least one receptacle defined in a sidewall of the body in fluid communication with the
floe channel for receiving and supporting a plant therein, wherein the receptacle is angularly
disposed to the vertical axis of the body.
                                                  2

[0009] The body may be manufactured from any suitable plastics and or synthetic material. The
body may be of general rectangular form, in cross section. The body may be of any suitable dark
color.
[0010] The soilless plant cultivating container may comprise two symmetric elongate halves to
be assembled together so as to define the container.
[0011] A sealing formation comprising a sealing channel that complementarily receives a sealing
element therein, may extend longitudinally along the soilless plant cultivating container for
sealing off a space defined in-between the two symmetric halves when assembled.
[0012] Securing formations may further be provided for securing the assembled halves together
when assembled.
[0013] The receptacle may include spacing formations extending inwardly from an upper end
region thereof for spacing the plant away from the inner surface of the receptacle.
[0014] The spacing formations may be in the form of protrusions extending from an inner
surface of the receptacle.
[0015] The receptacle will typically be located in a concave region of the wave shaped body. A
plurality of receptacles will typically be orientated out of register relative to one another on
opposing surfaces of the soilless plant cultivating container.
[0016] The body may further include channeling means for channeling fluid streaming
downward along the flow channel towards the plant roots of the plant contained in the receptacle.
The channeling means may be in the form of v-shaped ridges extending from an inner surface of
the body.
[0017] The body may also include a disperser element extending from the inner surface thereof
for dispersing fluid received from the channeling means.
                                                  3

[0018] The disperser element may be of any suitable shape and size and may be located below
the v-shaped ridges. The disperser element may take the form of a pin extending substantially
orthogonally away from the inner surface.
[0019] In order to inhibit overflow of fluid out of the receptacle in instances when the receptacle
becomes overgrown with plant root material, guiding formations may be provided for guiding
fluid out of the receptacle towards the flow channel.
[0020] The guiding formations may take the form of a pair of channels defined on opposing
peripheral regions of the receptacle, the guiding formations extending substantially vertically.
[0021] To promote the exposure of the plant roots to oxygen, as well as to control the
temperature inside the receptacle surrounding the plant roots, an air passage for introducing air
from outside of the body, to the plant roots may be provided.
[0022] The air passage may be arranged longitudinally along the body on a peripheral region
thereof. The air passage may include slot formations, for allowing the flow of air out of the
passage, toward the receptacle, and thereby the plant roots.
[0023] Engagement formations defined on end regions of the body may be provided so as to
allow coupling of a plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers together thereby defining a
soilless plant cultivating pipe.
[0024] The engagement formations may take the form of male and female engagement
formations, shaped and sized to sealably couple with one another so as to inhibit escape of fluid
out of the soilless cultivating pipe, when assembled.
[0025] In some embodiments of the disclosure, there is provided a soilless plant cultivating
container which includes;
        a body having a flow channel defined therethrough;
                                                  4

        an arm extending at angle of 1 to 179 degrees away from the body; and
        a receptacle defined at an opposing region of the arm for receiving and supporting a plant
therein, wherein the body, arm and receptacle are in fluid communication with one another for
allowing fluid received by the receptacle to flow downstream of the arm towards the body.
[0026] The soilless plant cultivating container may be manufactured from any suitable plastics
and or synthetic material and may be of any suitable dark color.
[0027] The soilless plant cultivating container may comprise two symmetric halves to be
assembled together so as to define the container.
[0028] A sealing arrangement comprising a sealing channel for complementarily receiving a
sealing element therein may extend longitudinally along the soilless plant cultivating container
for sealing off a space defined in-between the two symmetric halves when in assembled mode.
[0029] Securing formations may further be provided for securing the assembled halves together
when in assembled mode.
[0030] The receptacle may include spacing formations extending inward from an upper end
region thereof for spacing the plant away from an inner surface of the receptacle.
[0031] The spacing formations may be in the form of protrusions extending from an inner
surface of the receptacle. Each spacing formation may be in the form of a spacer element shaped
and sized to be a complementary fit in the receptacle.
[0032] The receptacle may be shaped and sized to in turn to complementarily receive a basket
type element therein, which basket type element is configured to receive a seedling plug. The
basket type element may be perforated for allowing roots of the seedling plug to extend
therethrough towards the arm.
                                                 5

[0033] The body may have engagement formations defined on end regions thereof so as to allow
coupling of a plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers together, thereby defining a soilless
plant cultivating pipe.
[0034] The engagement formations may take the form of male and female engagement
formations, shaped and sized to sealably couple with one another so as to inhibit escape of fluid
out of the soilless cultivating pipe, when assembled.
[0035] It should be appreciated that the term plant is to be interpreted so as to include any plant
like propagation matter such as seedlings, bulbs, seeds, and the like.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0036] The disclosure will now be described by means of a non-limiting example with reference
to the accompanying drawings.
[0037] In the drawings:
[0038] Figure 1 shows a perspective top view of a first embodiment of the soilless plant
cultivating container;
[0039] Figure 2 is a side view of the container as shown in Figure 1;
[0040] Figure 3 is a cross sectional side of the container as shown in Figures 1 and 2;
[0041] Figure 4 is a perspective top view of one symmetrical half of the container, as shown in
Figures I to 3;
[0042] Figures 5 and 6 show perspective views of a second embodiment of a soilless plant
cultivating container;
[0043] Figures 7 and 8 are perspective and top views respectively, of a basket type element to be
used with the second embodiment of the soilless plant cultivating container; and
                                                    6

[0044] Figure 9 is an illustration of the spacer element for use with the second embodiment of
the soilless plant cultivating container.
SPECIFIC DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0045] Referring to the drawings, a preferred embodiment of the soilless plant cultivating
container is generally depicted by reference numeral 10.
[0046] In accordance with a first embodiment, more clearly illustrated in figures 1 to 4, the
soilless plant cultivating container 10 includes an elongate body 12 of generally wave shaped
form, having a flow channel 14 defined therethrough, a receptacle 16 defined in a sidewall of the
body 12 for receiving and supporting a plant therein, spacing formations 18 for spacing the plant
relatively centrally the receptacle 16, channeling means in the form of v-shaped ridges 20 for
channeling fluid toward the receptacle and thereby to the plant roots contained therein, a
disperser element 22 for dispersing fluid received from the channeling means, guiding
formations 24 for guiding an overflow of fluid out of the receptacle 16 towards the flow channel
14, an air passage 26 for allowing flow of oxygen and or temperature regulated air from outer the
body 12 toward the receptacle and engagement formations 28 defined on end regions of the body
12 so as to allow coupling of a plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers 10 together so as
to define a soilless plant cultivating pipe (not shown).
[0047] The container 10 can be manufactured from any suitable plastics and or synthetic
material and can be of any suitable geometrical shape and size, preferably of general rectangular
form, in cross section.
[0048] The container 10 further comprises two symmetric elongate halves 28 to be assembled to
define the container 10.
                                                   7

[0049] A sealing channel 30 shaped and sized to complementarily receive a sealing element (not
shown) therein provides for sealing off a space in-between the two symmetric halves when
assembled.
[0050] Securing formations 32 are further provided for securing the symmetrical halves together
when in assembled.
[0051] The receptacle 16 includes an aperture defined in the sidewall of the body 12, and a
supporting surface 34 angularly disposed relative the body 12.
[0052] The spacing formations 18 that secure the plant substantially centrally in the receptacle
away from the inner surfaces thereof, are in the form of protrusions extending inwardly from an
inner surface of the supporting surface 34 of the receptacle 16.
[0053] The receptacles are in fluid communication with the flow channel so that, in use,
seedlings are planted in the receptacles with their roots dangling into the flow channel so that the
roots can come into contact with a fluid trickling down the flow channel or a gas or a mist in the
flow channel.
[0054] In order to achieve a maximum density of plants in a typical greenhouse type structure, a
plurality of receptacles 16 will typically be orientated out of register relative to one another on
opposing outer surfaces of the body 12.
[0055] In order to facilitate the desirable downstream flow of fluid in the body 12, the receptacle
16 is typically located in a concave region of the wave shaped body 12.
[0056] The disperser element 22 typically extends substantially orthogonally away from the
inner surface of the body 12.
[0057] Guiding formations 24 for guiding an overflow of fluid out of the receptacle 16 towards
the flow channel 14 can take the form of a pair of elongate ridges extending from the inner
                                                  8

surface of the body, parallel orientated relative to each other in a general vertical orientation
relative to a ground surface. The guiding formations 24 facilitate the flow of fluid out of the
receptacle 16 into the flow channel 14 in instances where the normal flow of fluid is obstructed
by plant roots. Such prevention of overflow of nutrient rich fluid inhibits the growing of algae
and other non-desirable organisms on the outer region of the body 12.
[0058] In order to control the temperature in the receptacle, especially around the plant roots in
the preferred region of 16 to 25'C, air passage 26 and slot formation 36 are provided for allowing
flow of temperature regulated oxygenated air from outside of the body 12 towards the receptacle
and thereby the plant roots contained therein. A pair of air passages 26 typically extend
longitudinally along the body 12 on opposing peripheral regions thereof. Slot formations 36,
arranged in sidewalls of the air passages 26, facilitate the flow of the temperature regulated
oxygenated air towards the receptacle 16, and thereby the plant roots. Air of the required
temperature is introduced intermittently through the passage via the slots 36 to promote
maximum plant growth.
[0059] Engagement formations 28 defined on end regions of the body 12 allow coupling of a
plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers 10 together, thereby defining a soilless plant
cultivating pipe. The engagement formations 28 typically include male and female engagement
formations, shaped and sized to sealably couple with one another so as to inhibit escape of fluid
out of the soilless cultivating pipe, when assembled.
[0060] Turning now to figures 5 and 6, in accordance with a second embodiment, the soilless
plant cultivating container 110 includes a body 112, an arm 114 extending at an angle of 1 to 179
degrees away from the body 112 and a receptacle 116 defined at an opposing end region of the
arm 114 for receiving and supporting a plant therein, wherein the receptacle 116, arm 114 and
                                                 9

the body 112 are in fluid communication with one another for allowing fluid received by the
receptacle 116, to flow downstream of the arm 114 towards the body 112.
[0061] The body 112 can be manufactured from any suitable plastics and or synthetic material
and can be of any suitable dark color.
[0062] The container 110 can comprise two symmetric halves to be assembled together to define
the said container 110.
[0063] Spacer element 118 provides for spacing the plant substantially centrally and away from
the inner surface region of the receptacle 116 as shown in Figure 9.
[0064] The receptacle 116 can be shaped and sized to, in turn, complementarily receive a
perforated basket type element 120 therein, as shown Figures 7 and 8, shaped and sized to
receive a seedling plug therein.
[0065] The receptacle 116 further includes a securing formation 122 for receiving and securing a
fluid source to the receptacle, for trickling a nutrient enriched fluid to the receptacle 116 for
absorption by the plant roots.
[0066] Engagement formations 124 are defined on end regions of the body 112 to allow coupling
of a plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers 110 together so as to define a soilless
growing pipe typically for use in a greenhouse type structure.
[0067] The Applicant considers the disclosure advantageous in that a soilless container for the
cultivation of plants is provided which manipulates the flow of fluid inside the container so as to
maximize the availability of nutrient rich fluid to the plant roots. Further, inclusion of the air
passages allows a user to control the ambient temperature as well as the availability of oxygen in
the receptacle surrounding the plant roots. The arrangement of receptacles on opposing outer
surfaces of the container maximises the density of plants to be cultivated.
                                                 10

[0068] Upon reading this disclosure it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various
changes and modifications may be made to the preferred embodiment described, and that those
changes and modifications shall not be interpreted as departing from the general scope and spirit
of the principles disclosed herein.
                                               11

                                         CLAIMS
1. A soilless plant cultivating container which includes;
   a body having a flow channel defined therethrough;
   an arm extending at an angle of 1 to 179 degrees away from the body; and
   a receptacle defined on an opposing region of the arm for receiving and supporting a
   plant therein, wherein the body, arm and receptacle are in fluid communication with one
   another so as to allow fluid received by the receptacle, to flow downstream of the arm
   towards the body.
2. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the container is
   manufactured from any suitable synthetic material.
3. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the container
   is of any suitable dark color.
4. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
   the container comprises two symmetric halves to be assembled together thereby defining
   the container.
5. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
   the body has engagement formations defined on end regions thereof for allowing
   coupling of a plurality of soilless plant cultivating containers together, thereby defining a
   soilless plant cultivating pipe.
6. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein
   the receptacle includes a spacer element for spacing the plant substantially centrally
   therein.
                                             12

7. The soilless plant cultivating container as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6, which includes
   a basket type element shaped and sized to complementarily fit into the receptacle.
                                             13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
