                            ABSTRACT OF THE INVENTION
         Apparatus is provided featuring a first and second cells. The first cell receives
  an ore slurry having mineral particles of interest, receives unexpanded polymer
  microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry attached
5 thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles of interest, causes the
  unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand substantially in volume into expanded
  polymer microspheres having a substantially increased sphere surface area, and
  provides an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded
  polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles of interest. The second cell
0 receives the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer, and causes the expanded
  polymer microspheres to collapse substantially in volume into collapsed polymer
  microspheres having a substantially reduced sphere surface area that results in a
  mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles of interest. The second cell
  may also provide a mineral concentrate output having the mineral particles of
5 interest.
         FIG. 17a

                                    17/19
                                                Expanded
                                          / V t Mkfrnosphere
                               agnator          tamdayer2 / 0/A4
            /    -FoM
                                                      FlotasonOverfew.
                                 poxmer beadp
                                                             miropmrr       /b/a)/'.
         Fkfto salnrr        Fow            Re-pressuzabon            DiscardedFoam) I
                                 /sesI
oo                                        '
   Figure 1tb. A conceptual implementation of the re-pressurization cell for the
      recovery of minerals from the expanded polymer microsphere 'foam'.

          DIMENSIONALLY CONTROLLED 'ENGINEERED POLYMER BUBBLE'
                               FOR FLOTATION SEPARATION
                       Cross-Reference to Related Patent Applications
 5         The present application claims the benefit of U.S.            Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/618,046 (CCS-0083//712-2.379),       filed 30 March 2012, as well as
   U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/650,185 (CCS-0085//712-2.388),        filed 22
   May 2012, which are both hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
           The present application is also a continuation-in-part (CIP) of, and claims
 0 benefit to, Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) application serial no. PCT/US12/39591
   (712-2.383), filed 25 May 2012, entitled "Method and system for releasing mineral
   from synthetic bubbles and beads," which is also incorporated by reference herein in
   its entirety.
           The present application is also related to eight (8) PCT applications, which
 5 were all concurrently filed on 25 May 2012, and which are all incorporated by
   reference in their entirety, as follows:
                  PCT application no. PCT/US12/39528 (Docket no. WFVA 712-002.356
            1//CCS-0052),   entitled "Flotation   separation using    lightweight synthetic
            bubbles and beads;"
20                PCT application      no. PCT/US12/39534       (Docket no.    712-002.359
            1//CCS-0087),   entitled "Mineral separation using functionalized polymer
            membranes;"
                  PCT application      no. PCT/US12/39540       (Docket no.    712-002.359
           2//CCS-0088),    entitled   "Mineral  separation using    sized, weighted     and
25          magnetized beads;"
                                               ~1 ~

                   PCT application no. PCT/US12/39576 (Docket no. 712-002.382//CCS
           0089), entitled "Synthetic bubbles/beads functionalized with molecules for
           attracting or attaching to mineral particles of interest;"
                   PCT application no. PCT/US12/39596 (Docket no. 712-002.384//CCS
 5         0091), entitled "Synthetic bubbles and beads having hydrophobic surface;"
                   PCT application no. PCT/US12139631 (Docket no. 712-002.385//CCS
           0092), entitled "Mineral separation using functionalized filters and members;"
                   PCT application no. PCTIUS12/39655 (Docket no. 712-002.386//CCS
           0093), entitled "Mineral recovery in tailings using functionalized polymers;"
 0         and
                   PCT application no. PCT/US12/39658 (Docket no. 712-002.387//CCS
           0094), entitled "Techniques for transporting synthetic beads or bubbles In a
           flotation cell or column."
           Moreover, the present application is also related to PCT application no.
 5 PCT/US12/69402 (Docket no. 712-002.374-1// CCS-0078), filed 13 December 2012,
   entitled    "Mineral   separation  using   functionalized     polymer-coated  filters and
   membranes," which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
           The present application is also related to provisional application             no.
   61/604,088, (Docket no. 712-002.377//CCS-0081), filed 28 February 2012, entitled
20 "Mineral separation using functionalized polymer-coated filters and membranes,"
   which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
           The present application is also related to provisional application             no.
   61/604,088, (Docket no. 712-002.389//CCS-0086),             filed 22 May 2012, entitled
   "Charged engineered polymers for flotation separation," which is hereby incorporated
25 by reference in its entirety.
                                              ~-2-~

           The present application      is also related to provisional application     no.
   61/604,088, (Docket no. 712-002.391//CCS-0096),           filed 13 June 2012, entitled
   "Bubble size determination based on bubble stiffness," which is hereby incorporated
   by reference in its entirety.
 5         The present application      is also related to provisional application     no.
   61/755,297, (Docket no. 712-002.405//CCS-0119),        filed 22 January 2013, entitled
   "Method of enhanced separation of oil sands ore constituents," which is hereby
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 0                               Backcround of the Invention
           1. Technical Field
           This invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for separating
   valuable material from unwanted material in a mixture, such as a pulp slurry.
 5         2. Description of Related Art
           Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
   be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
           In many industrial processes, flotation is used to separate valuable or desired
20 material from unwanted material.       By way of example, in this process a mixture of
   water, valuable material, unwanted material, chemicals and air is placed into a
   flotation cell. The chemicals are used to make the desired material hydrophobic and
   the air is used to carry the material to the surface of the flotation cell. When the
   hydrophobic material and the air bubbles collide, they become attached to each
25 other. The bubble rises to the surface carrying the desired material with it.
                                              ~-3-~

           The performance of the flotation cell is dependent on the air bubble surface
   area flux and air bubble size distribution in the collection zone of the cell. The air
   bubble surface area flux is dependent on the size of the bubbles and the air injection
   rate. Controlling the air bubble surface area flux has traditionally been very difficult.
 5 This is a multivariable control problem and there are no dependable real time
   feedback mechanisms to use for control.
           Flotation processing techniques for the separation of materials are a widely
   utilized technology, particularly in the fields of minerals recovery, industrial waste
   water treatment, and paper recycling for example.
 0         By way of example, in the case of minerals separation the mineral bearing ore
   may be crushed and ground to a size, typically around 100 microns, such that a high
   degree of liberation occurs between the ore minerals and the gangue (waste)
   material. In the case of copper mineral extraction as an example, the ground ore is
   then wet, suspended in a slurry, or 'pulp', and mixed with reagents such as
 5 xanthates or other reagents, which render the copper sulfide particles hydrophobic.
           Froth flotation is a process widely used for separating the valuable minerals
   from    gangue.      Flotation works by taking     advantage of differences in the
   hydrophobicity of the mineral-bearing ore particles and the waste gangue.        In this
   process, the pulp slurry of hydrophobic particles and hydrophilic particles is
20 introduced to a water filled tank containing surfactant/frother which is aerated,
   creating bubbles. The hydrophobic particles attach to the air bubbles, which rise to
   the surface, forming a froth. The froth is removed and the concentrate is further
   refined.
                                             -4-

           In standard flotation separation, air is constantly forced through the pulp slurry
   to create a certain 'flux' of air passing through the pulp. This process, while now
   used widely, and refined over many decades of use, has limitations:
       "   Due to the natural dynamics of the bubbles, a mineral-bearing particle may
 5         not typically be carried to the surface on one bubble, but may have to attach
           to several bubbles to reach the froth layer.
       *   Larger particles containing minerals may not be lifted due to the limited
           buoyancy of a bubble, and the attractive forces between the bubble and the
           ore particle (created by the collector I hydrophobic chemical additives)
 0         In general, 10% to 15% of the mineral bearing ore in the pulp is not recovered
   using air-based flotation processes, and consequently, new separation technologies
   are being explored and developed.
           The assignee of the present patent application has previously disclosed the
   use of polymer shells (aka "engineered bubbles") and polymer plates as a mineral
 5 separation method, consistent with that set forth in the patent applications above. In
   these approaches, a polymer material is modified with an appropriate mineral
   collector chemistry to make the surface of the polymer attractive to the mineral of
   interest. In the process, minerals attach to the polymer - in the case of the shells,
   separation is achieved via flotation, whereas in the case of plates, it is envisioned
20 that the bound mineral can be washed off (with the release being chemically
   triggered -    e.g., pH for example), or mechanically released (e.g., vibration /
   ultrasonically for example).
           Expandable polymer shells are widely used in a range of commercial products
   such as adhesives and sealants for example.            One such example is the Dualite
25 brand from a company named, Henkel Corp.           In this case, polymer shells made of a
                                              -5-

   thermoset polymer can be expanded at a particular temperature trigger point. The
   expansion forces come from a 'blowing agent' - a low boiling point liquid. At the
   point of the       liquid -  vapor transition temperature, the pressure inside the
   microsphere increases and the sphere is 'blown up'. Spheres can increase their size
 5 by 50 fold in volume.       Their use in sealants and adhesives provides a very low
   density filler / foam-type expansion material.
          There is a need in the industry to provide a better way to separate valuable
   material from unwanted material, e.g., including in such a flotation cell, so as to
   eliminate problems associated with using air bubbles in such a separation process.
 0        For example, a new approach to help solve this problem may be through the
   use of the expandable polymer shell technology.         This expandable polymer shell
   technology may be adapted for other uses, such as for flotation separation
   consistent with that set forth herein.
 5                                  Summary of the Invention
          Embodiments          of   the    present    application   disclose   additional
   improvements/alternatives to the concept for minerals separation set forth in the
   aforementioned PCT application.
          The aforementioned type of polymer microsphere expansion may be of
20 interest in the field of mineral separation, as the dimensional changes in the
   microspheres can be used for attachment and de-attachment of the recovered
   minerals.
          Consistent with the concepts set forth herein for the optimization of flotation
   using engineered bubbles or beads, including engineered polymers such as polymer
25 "bubbles" or "beads," this overall approach has several distinct advantages, one of
                                               ~-6-~

   which is that by floating the polymer bubbles up through a solution (such as an ore
   slurry) having the mineral particles of interest, e.g., chalcopyrite (or copper particles),
   the probability of an impact and attachment can be very high. The following sets
   forth new techniques for collection and release of mineral particles in relation to such
 5 a solution:
           Consistent with that disclosed herein, two approaches to using polymer based
   bubbles to capture the mineral particles of interest, such as chalcopyrite, may
   include imbedding the polymer bubbles with a collector material which attracts, e.g.,
   copper, or second, may include having the polymer bubbles embedded with a
 0 hydrophobic material that would attract the standard collectors that are currently
   available and used today. (For example, assuming that the standard collectors are
   based on the process of, e.g., a copper collector which is attracted to copper but also
   with a hydrophobic tail.)
           One important aspect of the process that must be optimized regardless of the
 5 method used, is that the polymer bubbles must attract and attach to the mineral
   particles of interest, such as chalcopyrite, during the collection phase of the process
   and release the mineral particles of interest once that phase is complete. This can
   be a very difficult task since essentially the bubbles must exhibit a strong attraction
   to hold, e.g., the chalcopyrite. but not too strong to allow release of the material after
20 the collection. The additional improvements/alternatives to the concept for minerals
   separation provides further solutions that address the needs of this difficult task.
             Pressurized Release For Collapsing Polymer Bubbles (CCS-0083)
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
25 apparatus featuring a first cell and a second cell.
                                              ~-7-~

           The first cell may be configured to receive an ore slurry having mineral
   particles of interest, to receive unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a
   surface having mineral collector chemistry attached thereto with molecules for
   attaching the mineral particles of interest, to cause the unexpanded polymer
 5 microspheres      to  expand   substantially     in volume  into expanded    polymer
   microspheres having a substantially increased sphere surface area, and to provide
   an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded polymer
   microspheres with attached mineral particles of interest.
           The second cell may be configured to receive the expanded polymer
 0 microsphere foam layer, and to cause the expanded polymer microspheres to
   collapse substantially in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres having a
   substantially reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of
   the attached mineral particles of interest.
           The second cell may also be configured to provide a mineral concentrate
 5 output having the mineral particles of interest.
           In operation, and by way of example, the expandable polymer microspheres
   which have been modified with mineral collector chemistries may be injected into a
   flotation cell along with a mineral ore pulp. Agitation may be induced (as is used in
   the known air-based flotation system) to mix the mineral ore pulp and the
20 expandable polymer microspheres.          A trigger temperature of a blowing agent
   encapsulated in the expandable polymer microsphere may be set at below the
   temperature of the pulp/water mixture in the flotation vessel. (This may require cool
   or chilled storage of the unexpanded polymer microspheres prior to their induction to
   the flotation cell.) The polymer microsphere expand, become buoyant, and create
                                              ~-8-~

   an increased bubble flux in the mineral ore pulp, presenting surface area for mineral
   bearing particles to attach to and be lifted to the surface.
           An agglomerated mass of expanded polymer microspheres on the surface is
   functionally equivalent to the froth layer on the surface of a conventional flotation
 5 cell, and is skimmed and moved to a release stage. Here, the expanded polymer
   microspheres are passed to a release tank in a batch process: the tank may be filled
   with the mineral rich foam, and the tank, e.g., either pressurized to a nominally
   elevated level, or chilled, such that the blowing agent reverses through a transition
   phase (returning to a liquid phase or a low pressure phase). This transition causes
 0 the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse, and the dramatic or substantial
   reduction in sphere surface area will result in a mechanical shearing off of the
   attached minerals. The mineral particles may separate from the collapsed polymer
   microspheres due to gravitation separation - e.g., the mineral particles of interest
   sink in the tank, whereas the unexpanded polymer microspheres remains nominally
 5 buoyant and float.
           Alternatively, according to some embodiments of the present invention, the
   flotation cell may be configured so that the expanded polymer microsphere foam
   layer on the surface may be allowed to spill over and be received by a spillover
   container, then provided for further processing, including being provided to release
20 apparatus.
           As this type of process to release the minerals could be done quickly in a
   batch-step process, the throughput of the cell is not typically compromised.
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may also take the
   form of a method including the steps of:
                                              ~ 9~

           In a first cell, receiving an ore slurry having mineral particles of interest,
   receiving unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral
   collector chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral
   particles of interest, causing the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand
 5 substantially in volume into expanded microspheres having a substantially increased
   sphere surface area, and providing an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer
   comprising the expanded polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles of
   interest.
           In a second cell, receiving the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer,
 0 and causing the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse substantially in volume
   into collapsed polymer microspheres having a substantially reduced sphere surface
   area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles of
   interest. The method may also include providing from the second cell a mineral
   concentrate output having the attached mineral particles of interest.
 5         The scope of the invention is also intended to include, or take the form of,
   apparatus comprising means for receiving an ore slurry having mineral particles of
   interest, receiving unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface having
   mineral collector chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral
   particles of interest, causing the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand
20 substantially in volume into expanded microspheres having a substantially increased
   sphere surface area, and providing an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer
   comprising the expanded polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles of
   interest; in combination with means for receiving the expanded polymer microsphere
   foam    layer, and     causing the   expanded    polymer  microspheres to collapse
25 substantially in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres having a substantially
                                            ~10 ~

   reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the attached
   mineral particles of interest.      The means for receiving the expanded polymer
   microsphere foam layer may also include means for providing a mineral concentrate
   output having the attached mineral particles of interest.
 5
             Condensation Release For Collapsing Polymer Bubbles (CCS-0085)
           Alternatively, according to some embodiments of the present invention, the
   releasing apparatus may be configured as a condensing tank for lowering the
   temperature of the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse substantially in
 0 volume into collapsed polymer microspheres having a substantially reduced sphere
   surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral
   particles of interest.
                                          The Method
 5         According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   a method featuring steps for
           receiving in a processor a plurality of synthetic beads in the form of polymer
   microspheres carrying       mineral   particles, each  of the polymer     microspheres
   comprising a surface and a plurality of molecules attached to the surface, the
20 molecules comprising a functional group having a chemical bond for attracting or
   attaching one or more of the mineral particles to the molecules, causing the mineral
   particles to attach to the polymer microspheres; and
           interrupting the chemical bond of the functional group so as to remove the
   mineral particles from the polymer microspheres.
                                              ~ 11 ~

          The polymer microsphere may include, or take the form of, the expandable
   polymer microspheres set forth herein. The interruption of the chemical bond of the
   functional group so as to remove the mineral particles from the expandable polymer
   microspheres may include, or take the form of, pressurizing or cooling the
 5 expandable polymer microspheres to collapse the same.
          The present invention may be used alone, or in conjunction with that set forth
   in the aforementioned PCT application serial no. PCT/US12/39591             (712-2.383)
   consistent with that summarized below:
          According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
 0 carrying the mineral particles may be received in a mixture having a first
   temperature, and the step of interrupting may include causing the synthetic beads
   carrying the mineral particles to contact with a medium having a second temperature
   higher than the first temperature.
          According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
 5 carrying the mineral particles may be caused to contact with a liquid, and the step of
   interrupting may include applying a sonic agitation to the liquid for causing the
   mineral particles to separate from the synthetic beads, or the step of interrupting may
   include applying microwaves to the liquid for causing the mineral particles to
   separate from the synthetic beads. The step for interrupting may include providing
20 an ultrasonic source to apply the sonic agitation to the liquid, and/or arranging the
   ultrasonic source to produce ultrasound signals for sonic agitation, for example
   ultrasound signals in the range of 20KHz to 300HKz for the sonic agitation. The step
   of interrupting may include providing an ultrasonic signal selected at the resonant
   frequency of the beads for causing the mineral particles to separate from the
25 synthetic beads.
                                            ~12 ~

           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
   carrying the mineral particles may be received along with a mixture having a first pH
   value, and the step for interrupting may include causing the synthetic beads carrying
   the mineral particles to contact with a medium having a second pH value lower than
 5 the first pH value, including where the second pH value ranges from 0 to 7.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the step of
   interrupting may include mechanically causing the synthetic beads to move against
   each other, including arranging a rotational means or device to stir the synthetic
   beads.
 0         According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
   may be made of a polymer having a glass transition temperature, and the second
   temperature may be substantially equal to or higher than the glass transition
   temperature.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, part of the synthetic
 5 beads carrying the mineral particles may be made of a magnetic material, and the
   step of interrupting may include arranging a magnetic stirrer to stir the synthetic
   beads.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
   carrying the mineral particles may be received along with a mixture, wherein said
20 interrupting comprises selecting two or more of the following interrupting techniques:
   1) lowering pH value of the mixture, 2) applying an ultrasound to the mixture; 3)
   increasing temperature of the mixture and 4) mechanically stirring the mixture. The
   selected interrupting techniques may be used on the mixture concurrently or
   sequentially.
25
                                            ~13~

                                         Apparatus
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   an apparatus featuring a processor configured to receive a plurality of synthetic
   beads in the form of polymer microspheres carrying mineral particles, each of the
 5 polymer microspheres comprising a surface and a plurality of molecules attached to
   the surface, the molecules comprising a functional group having a chemical bond for
   attracting or attaching one or more of the mineral particles to the molecules, causing
   the mineral particles to attach to polymer microspheres; and releasing apparatus
   configured to interrupt the chemical bond of the functional group so as to remove the
 0 mineral particles from the polymer microspheres.
           According    to some   embodiments, the     present invention, the      release
   apparatus may be configured to implement one or more of the features set forth
   herein.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the processor may
 5 be configured to cause the polymer microspheres to expand substantially in volume
   into expanded polymer microspheres having a substantially increased sphere
   surface area.     By way of example, the polymer microspheres may be caused to
   expand by an increase in temperature, including where the temperature of the ore
   slurry is greater than the temperature of the polymer microspheres. The polymer
20 microspheres may be caused to expand by using other techniques consistent with
   that set forth herein.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the processor may
   be configured as a higher temperature flotation cell or tank, e.g., to receive
   unexpanded      polymer microspheres and       to cause the unexpanded         polymer
                                            ~14~

   microspheres     to  expand    substantially  in volume     into   expanded polymer
   microspheres having a substantially increased sphere surface area.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the releasing
   apparatus may be configured to cause the expanded polymer microspheres to
 5 collapse substantially in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres that results in
   the mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles of interest.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the processor may
   be configured to maintain the ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, and the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres may be configured with a blowing agent
 0 encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below the predetermined
   temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand
   substantially in volume into the expanded polymer microspheres having the
   substantially increased sphere surface area when received in the processor.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the releasing
 5 apparatus may be configured as a re-pressurization cell, or a condensing tank, or a
   lower temperature separation tank, or a release tank.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the releasing
   apparatus may be configured to be filled with an expanded polymer microsphere
   foam layer or mineral rich foam, and to be pressurized to a nominally elevated level,
20 or chilled to a lower temperature, such that the blowing agent reverses through a
   transition phase, including either returning from a gas phase to a liquid phase or
   returning from a high pressure phase to a low pressure phase.
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   an apparatus featuring a processing compartment for receiving a plurality of
25 synthetic beads carrying mineral particles, each of the synthetic beads comprising a
                                            ~15 ~

   surface and a plurality of molecules attached to the surface, the molecules
   comprising a functional group having a chemical bond for attracting or attaching one
   or more of the mineral particles to the molecules, causing the mineral particles to
   attach to synthetic beads; the synthetic beads carrying the mineral particles received
 5 in a mixture having a pH value; and a controller arranged to release an acidic
   material for lowering the pH value of the mixture.
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   an apparatus featuring a processing compartment for receiving a plurality of
   synthetic beads carrying mineral particles, each of the synthetic beads comprising a
 0 surface and a plurality of molecules attached to the surface, the molecules
   comprising a functional group having a chemical bond for attracting or attaching one
   or more of the mineral particles to the molecules, causing the mineral particles to
   attach to synthetic beads; the synthetic beads carrying the mineral particles received
   in a mixture having a physical condition; and a sonic source arranged to apply
 5 ultrasonic waves to the mixture.
           In effect, the present invention provides mineral separation techniques using
   synthetic beads or bubbles, including size-, weight-, density- and magnetic-based
   polymer bubbles or beads. The term "polymer" in the specification means a large
   molecule made of many units of the same or similar structure linked together.
20         The present invention may consist of replacing or assisting the air bubbles in
   a flotation cell that are presently used in the prior art with a similar density material
   that has very controllable size characteristics.      By controlling the size and the
   injection rate a very accurate surface area flux can be achieved. This type of control
   would enable the bead or bubble size to be tuned or selected to the particle size of
25 interest in order to better separate valuable or desired material from unwanted
                                             ~16~

   material in the mixture. Additionally, the buoyancy of the bubble or bead may be
   selected to provide a desired rate of rise within a flotation cell to optimize attraction
   and attachment to mineral particles of interest. By way of example, the material or
   medium could be a polymer or polymer-based bubble or bead. These polymer or
 5 polymer-based bubbles or beads are very inexpensive to manufacture and have a
   very low density. They behave very similar to a bubble, but do not pop.
           Since this lifting medium size is not dependent on the chemicals in the
   flotation cell, the chemicals may be tailored to optimize hydrophobicity. There is no
   need to compromise the performance of the frother in order to generate the desired
 0 bubble size.      A controlled size distribution of medium may be customized to
   maximize recovery of different feed matrixes to flotation as ore quality changes.
           There may be a mixture of both air and lightweight beads or bubbles. The
   lightweight beads or bubbles may be used to lift the valuable material and the air
   may be used to create the desired froth layer in order to achieve the desired material
 5 grade.
           Bead or bubble chemistry is also developed to maximize the attachment
   forces of the lightweight beads or bubbles and the valuable material.
           A bead recovery process is also developed to enable the reuse of the
   lightweight beads or bubbles in a closed loop process. This process may consist of
20 a washing station whereby the valuable mineral is mechanically, chemically,
   thermally or electromagnetically removed from the lightweight beads or bubbles. In
   particular, the removal process may be carried out by way of controlling the pH value
   of the medium in which the enriched polymer beads or bubbles are embedded,
   controlling the temperature of the medium, applying mechanical or sonic agitation to
25 the medium, illuminating the enriched polymer beads with light of a certain range of
                                            ~17 ~

   frequencies, or applying electromagnetic waves on the enriched polymer beads in
   order to weaken or interrupting the bonds between the valuable material and the
   surface of the polymer beads or bubbles.
 5                            The Separation Process or Processor
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, and by way of
   example, the separation process may utilize existing mining industry equipment,
   including traditional column cells and thickeners. The lightweight synthetic beads or
   bubbles, including polymer bubbles, may be injected into a first traditional column or
 0 cell at an injection air port and rise to the surface. This first traditional column or cell
   has an environment that is conducive to particle attachment.             As the lightweight
   synthetic beads or bubbles rise they collide with the falling mineral particles. The
   falling mineral particles stick to the lightweight synthetic beads or bubbles and float
   or report to the surface.     The wash water can be used to clean off the entrained
 5 gangue.     The recovered bubbles and mineral may be sent to another traditional
   column or cell and injected into, e.g., the middle of the column.            This traditional
   column or cell has an environment that will promote release of the mineral particles.
   The mineral particles fall to the bottom and the synthetic bubbles or beads float or go
   to the surface. The synthetic bubbles or beads may be reclaimed and then sent
20 back through the process taking place in the first traditional column or cell.
   Thickeners may be used to reclaim the process water at both stages of the process.
                      Flotation Recovery of Coarse Ore Particles in Mining
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may be used for
25 flotation recovery of coarse ore particles in mining.
                                               ~18 ~

            For example, the concept may take the form of the creation of the lightweight
   synthetic beads or bubbles in a flotation recovery for lifting particles, e.g., greater
   than 150 micron, to the surface in a flotation cell or column.
            The fundamental notion is to create a shell or "semi-porous" structured bead
 5 or bubble of a predetermined size and use this as an 'engineered 'air bubble' for
   improving flotation recovery, e.g., of coarse ore particles in mining.
            Flotation recovery may be implemented in multiple stages, e.g., where the first
   stage works well at recovering the ground ore at the right size (<150 microns), but
   ore particles that are too small or to large pass on to later stages and are more
 0 difficult to recover.
            The present invention includes creating the "bubbles," and engineering them
   to carry the ore to the surface using, e.g., a polymer shell or structure, appropriately
   chemically activated to attract or attach to the ore.
            Depending on the method of "engineering" the bubble, at or near the surface
 5 the shell could dissolve (time activated), and release an agent that further promotes
   the frothing.
                 Polymer Blocks having Incorporated Air or Light-weight Material
            According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
20 synthetic flotation bubbles, using a concept such as incorporating air bubbles into
   polymer blocks, which are designed to attract or attach mineral rich ore onto their
   surface and then float to the top of the flotation tank.          It is also possible to
   incorporate light-weight material such as Styrofoam into the polymer blocks to aid
   buoyancy.
                                             ~19 ~

           The benefits of this approach include the fact that "engineered bubbles" in a
   polymer may enable a much larger range of ore grains to be lifted to the surface
   hence improving recover efficiency.
           According to some embodiments, optimally sized polymer blocks with a high
 5 percentage of air may be produced with appropriate collector chemicals also
   encapsulated into the polymer.
            Once the blocks are in, e.g., a mixture such as a slurry pulp, the collector
   chemicals may be released to initially attract or attach to mineral rich ore particles
   and then rise to the surface.
 0
                                   Example of Embodiments
                         Apparatus in the Form of a Cell or Column
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   apparatus featuring a cell or column configured to receive a mixture of fluid (e.g.
 5 water) and valuable material and unwanted material; receive synthetic bubbles or
   beads constructed to be buoyant when submerged in the mixture and functionalized
   to control the chemistry of a process being performed in the cell or column; and
   provide enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material attached
   thereto.
20         According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be made from a polymer or polymer-based material, or silica
   or silica-based material, or glass or glass-based material.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the cell or column
   may take the form of a flotation cell or column, and the synthetic bubbles or beads
                                             ~20~

   may be functionalized to attach to the valuable material in the mixture that forms part
   of a flotation separation process being performed in the flotation cell or column.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be functionalized to release a chemical to control the
 5 chemistry of the flotation separation process.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured with firm outer shells functionalized with a
   chemical to attach to the valuable material in the mixture. Alternatively, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may include a chemical that may be released to attach to the
 0 valuable material in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be constructed with firm outer shells configured to contain a
   gas, including air, so as to increase be buoyant when submerged in the mixture.
   Alternatively, the synthetic bubbles or beads may be made from a low-density
 5 material so as to be buoyant when submerged in the mixture, including the synthetic
   bubbles being configured as a solid without an internal cavity.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may include a multiplicity of hollow objects, bodies, elements or
   structures, each configured with a respective cavity, unfilled space, or hole to trap
20 and maintain a bubble inside. The hollow objects, bodies, elements or structures
   may include hollow cylinders, or spheres, or globules, or capillary tubes, or some
   combination thereof.      Each hollow object, body, element or structure may be
   configured with a dimension so as not to absorb liquid, including water, including
   where the dimension is in a range of about 20-30 microns. The multiplicity of hollow
25 objects, bodies, elements or structures may be configured with chemicals applied to
                                            ~21 ~

   prevent migration of liquid into respective cavities, including where the chemicals are
   hydrophobic chemicals. The synthetic bubbles or beads made from the silica or
   silica-based material, or glass or glass-based material, may take the form of hollow
   glass cylinders manufactured using a drawing and dicing process.
 5         The scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to the size or shape of
   the synthetic beads or bubbles, so as to enhance their rise or fall in the mixture.
           The scope of the invention is also intended to include other types or kinds of
   ways to construct and functionalize the synthetic bubbles or beads either now known
   or later developed in the future in order to perform the aforementioned functionality
 0 of being buoyant when submerged in the mixture and to attach to the valuable
   material in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the mixture may
   take the form of a slurry pulp containing, e.g., water and the valuable material of
   interest.
 5
                 A Method for Implementing in a Flotation Separation Device
           The present invention may also take the form of a method, e.g., for
   implementing in a flotation separation device having a flotation cell or column. The
   method may include steps for receiving in the flotation cell or column a mixture of
20 fluid and valuable material; receiving in the flotation cell or column synthetic bubbles
   or beads constructed to be buoyant when submerged in the mixture and
   functionalized to attach to the valuable material in the mixture and; and providing
   from the flotation cell or column enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the
   valuable material attached thereto.
                                             ~22~

           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the method may
   include being implemented consistent with one or more of the features set forth
   herein.
 5                 Apparatus in the Form of a Flotation Separation Device
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   apparatus such as a flotation separation device, including a flotation cell or column
   configured to receive a mixture of water, valuable material and unwanted material;
   receive polymer or polymer-based materials, including polymer or polymer bubbles
 0 or beads, configured to attach to the valuable material in the mixture; and provide
   enriched polymer or polymer-based materials, including enriched polymer or
   polymer-based bubbles or beads, having the valuable material attached thereon.
   According to some embodiments, the polymer or polymer-based material may be
   configured with a surface area flux by controlling some combination of the size of the
 5 polymer or polymer-based material and/or the injection rate that the mixture is
   received in the flotation cell or column; or the polymer or polymer-based material
   may be configured with a low density so as to behave like air bubbles; or the polymer
   or polymer-based material may be configured with a controlled size distribution of
   medium that may be customized to maximize recovery of different feed matrixes to
20 flotation as valuable material quality changes, including as ore quality changes; or
   some combination thereof.
           The present invention may take the form of apparatus for use in, or forming
   part of, a separation process to be implemented in separation processor technology,
   the apparatus featuring synthetic bubbles or beads configured with a polymer or
25 polymer-based material functionalized to attach to a valuable material in a mixture so
                                           ~23~

   as to form an enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material
   attached thereto, and also configured to be separated from the mixture based at
   least partly on a difference in a physical property between the enriched synthetic
   bubbles or beads having the valuable material attached thereto and the mixture.
 5         The separation process may be implemented          in separation processor
   technology which combines the synthetic bubbles or beads and the mixture, and
   which provides the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material
   attached thereto that are separated from the mixture based at least partly on the
   difference in the physical property between the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads
 0 having the valuable material attached thereto and the mixture.
                                   Size-based Separation
           The separation process may be implemented using sized-based separation,
   where the synthetic bubbles or beads may be configured to be separated from the
 5 mixture based at least partly on the difference between the size of the enriched
   synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material attached thereto in relation
   to the size of unwanted material in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured either so that the size of the synthetic bubbles
20 or beads is greater than a maximum ground ore particle size in the mixture, or so
   that the size of the synthetic bubbles or beads is less than a minimum ground ore
   particle size in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured as solid polymer bubbles or beads.
                                            ~24~

           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured with a core material of sand, silica or other
   suitable material and also configured with a polymer encapsulation.
 5                                 Weight-based Separation
           The separation process may be implemented using weight-based separation,
   where the synthetic bubbles or beads are configured to be separated from the
   mixture based at least partly on the difference between the weight of the enriched
   synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material attached thereto in relation
 0 to the weight of unwanted material in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured so that the weight of the synthetic bubbles or
   beads is greater than a maximum ground ore particle weight in the mixture, or so
   that the weight of the synthetic bubbles or beads is less than a minimum ground ore
 5 particle weight in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured as solid polymer bubbles or beads.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured with a core material of magnetite, air or other
20 suitable material and also configured with a polymer encapsulation.
                                 Magnetic-based Separation
           The  separation    process   may   be implemented     using   magnetic-based
   separation, where the synthetic bubbles or beads may be configured to be separated
25 from the mixture based at least partly on the difference between the para-, ferri-,
                                            ~25~

   ferro-magnetism of the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable
   material attached thereto in relation to the para-, ferri, ferro-magnetism of unwanted
   material in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
 5 bubbles or beads may be configured so that the para-, ferri-, ferro-magnetism of the
   synthetic bubbles or beads is greater than the para-, ferri-, ferro-magnetism of the
   unwanted ground ore particle in the mixture.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads may be configured with a ferro-magnetic or ferri-magnetic core that
 0 attract to paramagnetic surfaces and also configured with a polymer encapsulation.
                                    Density-based Separation
           The separation process may be implemented using density-based separation,
   where the synthetic bubbles or beads may be configured to be separated from the
 5 mixture based at least partly on the difference between the density of the enriched
   synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material attached thereto and the
   density of the mixture, consistent with that disclosed in PCT patent application serial
   no. PCT/US12/39528       (WFVA/CiDRA file no. 712-2.356-1/CCS-0052), filed 25 May
   2012, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
20
           According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an
   apparatus comprising:
           a first cell comprising a top part and a bottom part, the top part configured to
   receive an ore slurry having mineral particles, the bottom part configured to receive
25 unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector
                                              ~26~

   chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles,
   wherein the first cell is configured to maintain the ore slurry at a predetermined
   temperature, and the unexpanded polymer microspheres are configured with a
   blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below the
 5 predetermined temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres to
   expand in volume into expanded polymer microspheres having an increased sphere
   surface area when received in the first cell, the first cell further configured to provide
   an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded polymer
   microspheres with attached mineral particles; and
 0         a second cell configured to receive the expanded polymer microsphere foam
   layer, wherein the second cell comprises a release tank in the form of a re
   pressurization cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured to collapse the
   expanded polymer microspheres-in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres
   having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the
 5 attached mineral particles.
           According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method comprising:
           receiving unexpanded polymer microspheres and an ore slurry having mineral
   particles in a first cell, the unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface
20 having mineral collector chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the
   mineral particles, causing the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand in
   volume into expanded microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and
   providing an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded
   polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles; and
                                            ~27~

           receiving the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer in a second cell, and
   causing the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed
   polymer microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a
   mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles.
 5        According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided an
   apparatus comprising:
          means for receiving an ore slurry having mineral particles and unexpanded
   polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry
   attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles, maintaining the
 0 ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, wherein the unexpanded polymer
   microspheres are configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a
   trigger temperature set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause the
   unexpanded      polymer     microspheres   to  expand   in   volume    into  expanded
   microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and providing an expanded
 5 polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded polymer microspheres
   with attached mineral particles, and
           means for receiving the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer, causing
   the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed polymer
   microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical
20 shearing off of the attached mineral particles, and providing a mineral concentrate
   output having the mineral particles.
          According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided an
   apparatus comprising:
          a first cell comprising a top part and a bottom part, the top part configured to
25 receive an ore slurry having mineral particles, the bottom part configured to receive
                                             ~28~

   polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry
   attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles, wherein the first
   cell is configured to provide a polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the
   polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles, wherein the first cell is also
 5 configured to cause the polymer microspheres to expand in volume into expanded
   polymer microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and the first cell is
   further configured to maintain the ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, and the
   polymer microspheres are configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that
   has a trigger temperature set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause
 0 the polymer microspheres to expand in volume into the expanded polymer
   microspheres having the increased sphere surface area when received into the first
   cell; and
           a second cell configured to receive the polymer microsphere foam layer,
   wherein the second cell comprises a release tank in the form of a re-pressurization
 5 cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured to collapse the polymer
   microspheres in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres having a reduced
   sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral
   particles.
           According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided an
20 apparatus comprising:
           a processor configured to receive a plurality of synthetic beads, each of the
   synthetic beads comprising a surface and a plurality of molecules attached to the
   surface, the molecules comprising a functional group for attracting one or more of
   the mineral particles to the molecules, the synthetic beads comprising polymer
25 microspheres, wherein the processor is also configured to cause the polymer
                                              ~29~

   microspheres to expand in volume into expanded polymer microspheres having a-an
   increased sphere surface area, wherein the processor is configured to maintain the
   ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, and the polymer microspheres are
   configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature
 5 set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause the polymer microspheres
   to expand in volume into the expanded polymer microspheres having the increased
   sphere surface area when received into the processor; and
           releasing apparatus configured to interrupt a chemical bond of the functional
   group so as to remove the mineral particles from the synthetic beads, including by
 0 causing the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed
   polymer microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a
   mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles.
           Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
   the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
 5 inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
   of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
20                               Brief Description of the Drawinq
           Referring now to the drawing, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, the
   foregoing and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more
   fully understood from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments,
   taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing in which like elements are
25 numbered alike:
                                               ~30~

          Figure 1 is a diagram of a flotation system, process or apparatus according to
   some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 2 is a diagram of a flotation cell or column that may be used in place of
   the flotation cell or column that forms part of the flotation system, process or
 5 apparatus shown in Figure 1 according to some embodiments of the present
   invention.
          Figure 3a shows a generalized synthetic bead which can be a size-based
   bead or bubble, weight-based polymer bead and bubble, and magnetic-based bead
   and bubble, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
 0        Figure 3b illustrates an enlarged portion of the synthetic bead showing a
   molecule or molecular segment for attaching a function group to the surface of the
   synthetic bead, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 4a illustrates a synthetic bead having a body made of a synthetic
   material, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
 5        Figure 4b illustrates a synthetic bead with a synthetic shell, according to some
   embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 4c illustrates a synthetic bead with a synthetic coating, according to
   some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 4d illustrates a synthetic bead taking the form of a porous block, a
20 sponge or a foam, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 5a illustrates the surface of a synthetic bead with grooves and/or rods,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 5b illustrates the surface of a synthetic bead with dents and/or holes,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
                                             ~31 ~

          Figure 5c illustrates the surface of a synthetic bead with stacked beads,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 5d illustrates the surface of a synthetic bead with hair-like physical
   structures, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
 5        Figure 6 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
   material is thermally removed from the polymer bubbles or beads, according to some
   embodiments of the present invention.
           Figure 7 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
   material is sonically removed from the polymer bubbles or beads, according to some
 0 embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 8 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
   material is chemically removed from the polymer bubbles or beads, according to
   some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 9 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
 5 material is electromagnetically removed from the polymer bubbles or beads,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 10 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
   material is mechanically removed from the polymer bubbles or beads, according to
   some embodiments of the present invention.
20        Figure 11 is a diagram of a bead recovery processor in which the valuable
   material is removed from the polymer bubbles or beads in two or more stages,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention.
          Figure 12 is a diagram of an apparatus using counter-current flow for mineral
   separation, according to some embodiments of the present invention.
                                           ~32~

           Figure 13a shows a generalized synthetic bead functionalized to be
   hydrophobic, wherein the bead can be a size-based bead or bubble, weight-based
   polymer bead and bubble, and magnetic-based bead and bubble, according to some
   embodiments of the present invention.
 5         Figure 13b illustrates an enlarged portion of the hydrophobic synthetic bead
   showing a wetted mineral particle attaching the hydrophobic surface of the synthetic
   bead.
           Figure 13c illustrates an enlarged portion of the hydrophobic synthetic bead
   showing a hydrophobic non-mineral particle attaching the hydrophobic surface of the
 0 synthetic bead.
           Figures 14a illustrates a mineral particle being attached to a number of much
   smaller synthetic beads at the same time.
           Figures 14b illustrates a mineral particle being attached to a number of slightly
   larger synthetic beads at the same time.
 5         Figures 15a illustrates a wetted mineral particle being attached to a number of
   much smaller hydrophobic synthetic beads at the same time.
           Figures 15b illustrates a wetted mineral particle being attached to a number of
   slightly larger hydrophobic synthetic beads at the same time.
           Figures 16a and 16b illustrate some embodiments of the present invention
20 wherein the synthetic bead or bubble have one portion functionalized to have
   collector molecules and another portion functionalized to be hydrophobic.
           Figure 17a illustrates apparatus according to some embodiments of the
   present invention, in the form of an arrangement of a flotation cell for a minerals
   recovery process.
                                             ~33~

           Figure 17b illustrates apparatus according to some embodiments of the
   present invention, in the form of a combined flotation cell and re-pressurization cell
   for mineral release from an expanded polymer foam.
           Figure 17c illustrates a re-pressurization release concept, which may form
 5 part of some embodiments of the present invention.
           Figure 18a illustrates an expanded polymer bubble having chalcopyrite
   attached thereto, according to, or forming part of, some embodiments of the present
   invention.
           Figure 18b illustrates a collapsed expanded polymer bubble having the
 0 chalcopyrite detached, according to, or forming part of, some embodiments of the
   present invention.
           Figure 18c illustrates apparatus according to some embodiments of the
   present invention, including where the expanded polymer bubble in Figure 18a
   having chalcopyrite attached thereto overflow a flotation cell or tank and are provided
 5 to a condensation cell or tank to be collapsed into the collapsed expanded polymer
   bubble in Figure 18b.
                              Detailed Description of the Invention
                                 Figures 17a to 17c (CCS-0083)
20         By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, Figures 17a to 17c show apparatus generally indicated as 1000 featuring a
   first cell 1002 (e.g., a flotation cell or tank) in combination with a second cell 1004
   (e.g., a release, re-pressurization or condensing cell).
           The first cell 1002 may be configured to receive an ore slurry 1006 having
25 mineral particles of interest, to receive unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008
                                               ~34~

   comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry attached thereto with
   molecules for attaching the mineral particles of interest, to cause the unexpanded
   polymer microspheres 1008 to expand substantially in volume into expanded
   polymer microspheres 1010 having a substantially increased sphere surface area,
 5 and to provide an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer 1012 comprising the
   expanded polymer microspheres 1010 with attached mineral particles of interest.
           The second cell 1004 may be configured to receive the expanded polymer
   microsphere foam layer 1012, to cause the expanded polymer microspheres 1010 to
   collapse substantially in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres 1014 having a
 0 substantially reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of
   the attached mineral particles 1016 of interest, and to provide a mineral concentrate
   output 1018 having the mineral particles 1016 of interest.
           The first cell 1002 may be, or take the form of, a flotation cell or tank, e.g., that
   is known in the art, including those that form part of known mineral separation
 5 processes. However, the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to any
   particular type or kind of first cell or tank, and may include first cells or tanks that are
   now known or later developed in the future.
           By way of example, the first cell 1002 may include an agitator 1018 configured
   to cause or induce agitation to mix the ore slurry 1006 and polymer microspheres
20 like elements 1008 and/or 1010. Agitators are known in the art, and the scope of the
   invention is not intended to be limited to any particular type or kind thereof either now
   known or later developed in the future.
           In the embodiment shown in Figures 17a to 17c, the first cell 1002 is
   configured to receive unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008 that are expanded by
25 a change in temperature, e.g., caused by a higher temperature of the ore slurry
                                               ~35~

   1006. However, the scope of the invention is intended to include the first cell 1002
   receiving previously expanded polymer microspheres that have a lower density than
   the ore slurry, are buoyant and rise and float upwardly in the first cell 1002. In this
   embodiment, the expanded polymer microspheres in the expanded microsphere
 5 foam layer 1012 are similarly collapsed to cause the mechanical shearing off of the
   attached mineral particles 1016 of interest.       The scope of the invention is not
   intended to be limited to the degree of expansion (e.g., no expansion, partially
   expanded, or fully expanded) of the polymer microspheres received in the flotation
   cell 1002.
 0         The unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008 may be configured with a
   blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below the
   predetermined temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres
   1008 to expand substantially in volume into the expanded polymer microspheres
   1010 having the substantially increased sphere surface area when received in the
 5 first cell 1002. The blowing agent may be encapsulated, e.g., in an interior part (see
   Figure 4b, element 86 below). By way of example, the blowing agent may include
   either a liquid that responds to a change in temperature and transforms into a gas, or
   a gas that responds to a change in temperature and transforms from a low pressure
   phase into a high pressure phase. The scope of the invention is not intended to be
20 limited to the type or kind of gas or liquid used as the blowing agent, and is intended
   to includes gases and liquids both now known and later developed in the future.
   Embodiments are also envisioned, and the scope of the invention is intended to
   include, the blowing agent taking the form of an expandable solid or semi-solid (e.g.
   gel) either now known and later developed in the future, e.g., that once expanded,
25 cause the polymer microspheres 1010 to have a lower density than the ore slurry, be
                                              ~36~

   buoyant and rise and float upwardly in the first cell 1002. In particular, the first cell
   1002 may be configured to maintain the ore slurry 1006 at a predetermined
   temperature, and the unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008 may be configured
   with the blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below
 5 the   predetermined     temperature   so as    to cause    the    unexpanded     polymer
   microspheres 1008 to expand substantially in volume into the expanded polymer
   microspheres having the substantially increased sphere surface area when received
   in the first cell 1002. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008 may be cooled or chilled to a temperature
 0 below the predetermined temperature prior to induction to the first cell 1002.
          The expanded polymer microspheres 1010 may be configured to become
   buoyant and create an increased bubble flux in the ore slurry 1006, presenting
   surface area for mineral bearing particles to attach to and be lifted to the surface and
   form the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer 1012.                 In particular, the
 5 expanded      polymer microsphere foam layer 1012 may take the form of an
   agglomerated mass of expanded spheres on the surface to be skimmed and moved
   to the second cell 104, including a release stage, or provided as foam overflow
   1012a as shown in Figure 17b. Alternatively, the expanded polymer microsphere
   foam layer 1012 may spill over the first cell or tank 1002, collected in a spillover tank
20 1013 (Figure 18c) and provided to the second tank 1004, consistent with that
   disclosed in relation to Figures 18a to 18c.
          The second cell 1004 may include a re-pressurization cell or tank, or a
   condensing tank or cell, or a release tank.         Cell or tanks for pressurizing or
   condensing its contents are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not
25 intended to be limited to any particular type or kind thereof either now known or later
                                             ~37~

   developed in the future.     Moreover, a person skilled in the art would be able to
   configured the second cell or tank 1004 to cause, e.g., the expanded polymer
   microspheres 1010 to collapse substantially in volume into the collapsed polymer
   microspheres 1014 having the substantially reduced sphere surface area that results
 5 in the mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles 1016 of interest
   without undue experimentation based at least partly on that disclosed herein.         By
   way of example, the second cell 1004 may be configured to be filled with the
   expanded polymer microsphere foam layer 1012 or mineral rich foam, and to be
   pressurized to a nominally elevated level, or chilled to a lower temperature (e.g. to
 0 cause condensing), such that the blowing agent reverses through a transition phase,
   including either returning from a gas phase to a liquid phase or returning from a high
   pressure phase to a low pressure phase.
           By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, the mineral particles 1016 of interest may separate from the collapsed
 5 polymer microspheres 1014 due to gravitation separation, including where minerals
   sink in the second cell 1004 and where the unexpanded or collapsed polymer
   microspheres generally indicated by arrow labeled 1008' (e.g., with or without some
   attached mineral of interest) tend to remain nominally buoyant and may float to the
   top surface, e.g., as shown in Figure 18c.
20         By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, the second cell 1004 may also be configured to provide the mineral
   concentrate output 1018 having the mineral particles 1016 of interest, e.g., for further
   processing, including by processing either now known or later developed in the
   future.  The scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to either how the
25 second cell 1004 may be configured to provide the mineral concentrate output 1018,
                                           ~38~

   or how the mineral concentrate output 1018 is further processed once provided from
   the second cell 1004.
           By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, the second cell 1004 may also be configured to provide a discarded foam
 5 output 1020 having the collapsed polymer microspheres, e.g., for further processing,
   including discarding, cleaning and recirculation, or for or by some other processing
   either now known or later developed in the future. The scope of the invention is not
   intended to be limited to either how the second cell 1004 may be configured to
   provide the discarded foam output 1020, or how the discarded foam output 1020 is
 0 further processed once discarded from the second cell 1004.
           By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, and consistent with that set forth herein, the molecules may include a
   functional group having a chemical bond for attaching the mineral particles of
   interest, e.g., consistent with that disclosed herein. The scope of the invention is not
 5 intended to be limited to any particular type or kind of molecule, functional group, or
   chemical bond for attaching the mineral particles of interest to the polymer
   microspheres that may be used to implement the present invention, and is intended
   to include molecules, functional groups, or chemical bonds that are now known and
   later developed in the future.
20         By way of example, and according to some embodiments of the present
   invention, the volume of the expanded polymer microspheres 1010 may be about 50
   times the volume of the unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008. However, scope
   of the invention is not intended to be limited to any particular volumetric expansion or
   contraction between the unexpanded polymer microspheres 1008 and the expanded
                                              ~39~

   polymer microspheres 1010, and is intended to include volumetric expansions or
   contractions less than or greater than 50.
            The second cell or tank 1004 may be configured with flow/pressure valves
   1022 configured for controlling the flow of the foam overflow 1012a from the first cell
 5 1002 to the second cell 1004, the mineral concentrate output 1018 from the second
   cell 1004, and the discard foam output 1020 from the second cell 1004.                Such
   flow/pressure valves 1022 are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not
   intended to be limited to any particular type or kind thereof.
 0                              Figures 18a to 18c (CCS-0085)
            Figures 18a to 18c show an alternative approach that builds on the basic idea
   that the bubbles may be expanded during the collection phase where the larger
   surface area would be able to collect the mineral of interest, e.g., chalcopyrite, and
   fill the outer surface. After collection, the mineral of interest, e.g., chalcopyrite, may
 5 be removed from the polymer bubble. For example, the bubble may be collapsed or
   shrunk and the chalcopyrite particles of interest would be forced or mechanically
   sheared off. Figures 18a and 18b shows the two states of the polymer bubble,
   including an expanded stated in Figure 18a and a collapsed state in Figure 18b.
            Consistent with that set forth herein a variety of conditions could be used to
20 cause the polymer bubble to expand. Temperature is a typical parameter used to
   control the two-state bubble as demonstrated with Henkel's polymer microsphere
   offering, consistent with that shown in Figure 18c where a higher temperature
   flotation tank 1002 is shown with expanded polymer bubbles 1010. Other options
   may include or be pH, illumination with optical wavelengths or microwave.              The
25 scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to any particular way to expand
                                              ~40~

   the polymer bubbles, and is intended to include techniques now and later developed
   in the future.
           Figure 18c shows a technique where temperature may be used to collapse
   the polymer bubbles and release the chalcopyrite attached thereto. As shown, the
 5 polymer bubbles would be activated by the higher temperature bath of chalcopyrite
   which would cause the bubble to expand and attach to the material or mineral
   particle of interest. The bubbles would float the material to the top of the floatation
   tank 1002 where it would, e.g., spill over as an expanded microsphere foam layer
   1012, be collected in the spillover container 1013 and sent to a second tank, e.g., a
 0 lower temperature condensing tank 1004'. Here, the bubbles and chalcopyrite may
   be cooled so that the bubbles would collapse and shed the chalcopyrite particles
   1016 of interest. The chalcopyrite could then be collected from the bottom of the
   second tank 1004'.
           Condensing tanks like element 1004' and spillover tanks like element 1013
 5 are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to
   any particular type or kind thereof either now known or later developed in the future.
           Embodiments are also envisioned, and the scope of the invention is intended
   to include, the pressure release technique disclosed in relation to Figures 17a-17c
   being used in combination with the cooling release technique disclosed in relation to
20 Figures 18a-18c, for collapsing the polymer bubbles and releasing chalcopyrite
   particles.
               Figures 1 to 16c of PCT application serial no. PCT/US12/39591
           Moreover, embodiments are envisioned in which the present invention shown
25 and described in relation to Figures 17a to 17c and 18a to 18c may be used alone,
                                             ~41 ~

   or in conjunction with that set forth in the aforementioned PCT application serial no.
   PCT/US12/39591 consistent with that disclosed in relation to Figures 1 to 16b below:
                                            Figure 1
 5         By way of example, Figure 1 shows the present invention is the form of
   apparatus 10, having a flotation cell or column 12 configured to receive a mixture of
   fluid (e.g. water), valuable material and unwanted material, e.g., a pulp slurry 14;
   receive synthetic bubbles or beads 70 (Fig. 3a to Fig. 5d) that are constructed to be
   buoyant when submerged in the pulp slurry or mixture 14 and functionalized to
 0 control the chemistry of a process being performed in the flotation cell or column,
   including to attach to the valuable material in the pulp slurry or mixture 14; and
   provide enriched synthetic bubble or beads 18 having the valuable material attached
   thereon. The terms "synthetic bubbles or beads" and "polymer bubbles or beads"
   are used interchangeably in this disclosure. The terms "valuable material", "valuable
 5 mineral" and "mineral particle" are also used interchangeably. By way of example,
   the synthetic bubbles or beads 70 may be made from polymer or polymer-based
   materials, or silica or silica-based materials, or glass or glass-based materials,
   although the scope of the invention is intended to include other types or kinds of
   material either now known or later developed in the future.        For the purpose of
20 describing one example of the present invention, in Figure 1 the synthetic bubbles or
   beads 70 and the enriched synthetic bubble or beads 18 are shown as enriched
   polymer or polymer-based bubbles labeled 18.        The flotation cell or column 12 is
   configured with a top portion or piping 20 to provide the enriched polymer or
   polymer-based bubbles 18 from the flotation cell or column 12 for further processing
25 consistent with that set forth herein.
                                             ~42~

           The flotation cell or column 12 may be configured with a top part or piping 22,
   e.g., having a valve 22a, to receive the pulp slurry or mixture 14 and also with a
   bottom part or piping 24 to receive the synthetic bubbles or beads 70. In operation,
   the buoyancy of the synthetic bubbles or beads 70 causes them to float upwardly
 5 from the bottom to the top of the flotation cell or column 12 through the pulp slurry or
   mixture 14 in the flotation cell or column 12 so as to collide with the water, valuable
   material   and    unwanted     material  in the   pulp  slurry or mixture    14.    The
   functionalization of the synthetic bubbles or beads 70 causes them to attach to the
   valuable material in the pulp slurry or mixture 14.          As used herein, the term
 0 "functionalization" means that the properties of the material making up the synthetic
   bubbles or beads 70 are either selected (based upon material selection) or modified
   during manufacture and fabrication, to be "attracted" to the valuable material, so that
   a bond is formed between the synthetic bubbles or beads 70 and the valuable
   material, so that the valuable material is lifted through the cell or column 12 due to
 5 the buoyancy of the synthetic bubbles or beads 70.         For example, the surface of
   synthetic bubbles or beads has functional groups for collecting the valuable material.
   Alternatively, the synthetic bubbles or beads are functionalized to be hydrophobic for
   attracting wetted mineral particles -        those mineral particles having collector
   molecules attached thereto.       As a result of the collision between the synthetic
20 bubbles or beads 70 and the water, valuable material and unwanted material in the
   pulp slurry or mixture 14, and the attachment of the synthetic bubbles or beads 70
   and the valuable material in the pulp slurry or mixture 14, the enriched polymer or
   polymer-based bubbles 18 having the valuable material attached thereto will float to
   the top of the flotation cell 12 and form part of the froth formed at the top of the
25 flotation cell 12. The flotation cell 12 may include a top part or piping 20 configured
                                              ~43~

   to provide the enriched polymer or polymer-based bubbles 18 having the valuable
   material attached thereto, which may be further processed consistent with that set
   forth herein. In effect, the enriched polymer or polymer-based bubbles 18 may be
   taken off the top of the flotation cell 12 or may be drained off by the top part or piping
 5 20.
           The flotation cell or column 12 may be configured to contain an attachment
   rich environment, including where the attachment rich environment has a high pH, so
   as to encourage the flotation recovery process therein.           The flotation recovery
   process may include the recovery of ore particles in mining, including copper. The
 0 scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to any particular type or kind of
   flotation recovery process either now known or later developed in the future. The
   scope of the invention is also not intended to be limited to any particular type or kind
   of mineral of interest that may form part of the flotation recovery process either now
   known or later developed in the future.
 5         According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic
   bubbles or beads 70 may be configured with a surface area flux by controlling some
   combination of the size of the polymer or polymer-based bubbles and/or the injection
   rate that the pulp slurry or mixture 14 is received in the flotation cell or column 12.
   The synthetic bubbles or beads 70 may also be configured with a low density so as
20 to behave like air bubbles. The synthetic bubbles or beads 70 may also be
   configured with a controlled size distribution of medium that may be customized to
   maximize recovery of different feed matrixes to flotation as valuable material quality
   changes, including as ore quality changes.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the flotation cell or
25 column 12 may be configured to receive the synthetic bubbles or beads 70 together
                                              ~44~

   with air, where the air is used to create a desired froth layer in the mixture in the
   flotation cell or column 12 in order to achieve a desired grade of valuable material.
   The synthetic bubbles or beads 70 may be configured to lift the valuable material to
   the surface of the mixture in the flotation cell or column.
 5
                                       The Thickener 28
           The apparatus 10 may also include piping 26 having a valve 26a for providing
   tailings to a thickener 28 configured to receive the tailings from the flotation cell or
   column 12.      The thickener 28 includes piping 30 having a valve 30a to provide
 0 thickened tailings.    The thickener 28 also includes suitable piping 32 for providing
   reclaimed water back to the flotation cell or column 12 for reuse in the process.
   Thickeners like element 28 are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not
   intended to be limited to any particular type or kind either now known or later
   developed in the future.
 5
                         The Bead Recovery Process or Processor 50
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the apparatus 10
   may further comprises a bead recovery process or processor generally indicated as
   50 configured to receive the enriched polymer or polymer-based bubbles 18 and
20 provide reclaimed polymer or polymer-based bubbles 52 without the valuable
   material attached thereon so as to enable the reuse of the polymer or polymer-based
   bubbles 52 in a closed loop process. By way of example, the bead recovery process
   or processor 50 may take the form of a washing station whereby the valuable
   mineral is mechanically, chemically, or electro-statically removed from the polymer or
25 polymer-based bubbles 18.
                                              ~45~

           The bead recovery process or processor 50 may include a releasing
   apparatus in the form of a second flotation cell or column 54 having piping 56 with a
   valve 56a configured to receive the enriched polymer bubbles or beads 18; and
   substantially release the valuable material from the polymer bubbles or beads 18,
 5 and also having a top part or piping 57 configured to provide the reclaimed polymer
   bubbles or beads 52, substantially without the valuable material attached thereon
   The second flotation cell or column 54 may be configured to contain a release rich
   environment, including where the release rich environment has a low pH, or including
   where the release rich environment results from ultrasonic waves pulsed into the
 0 second flotation cell or column 54.
           The bead recovery process or processor 50 may also include piping 58 having
   a valve 56a for providing concentrated minerals to a thickener 60 configured to
   receive the concentrated minerals from the flotation cell or column 54. The thickener
   60 includes piping 62 having a valve 62a to provide thickened concentrate.        The
 5 thickener 60 also includes suitable piping 64 for providing reclaimed water back to
   the second flotation cell or column 54 for reuse in the process.       Thickeners like
   element 60 are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not intended to be
   limited to any particular type or kind either now known or later developed in the
   future.
20         Embodiments are also envisioned in which the enriched synthetic beads or
   bubbles are placed in a chemical solution so the valuable material is dissolved off, or
   are sent to a smelter where the valuable material is burned off, including where the
   synthetic beads or bubbles are reused afterwards.
25                                     Dosage control
                                           ~46~

           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic beads
   or bubbles 70 may be functionalized to control the chemistry of the process being
   performed in the cell or column, e.g. to release a chemical to control the chemistry of
   the flotation separation process.
 5         In particular, the flotation cell or column 12 in Figure 1 may be configured to
   receive polymer-based blocks like synthetic beads containing one or more chemicals
   used in a flotation separation of the valuable material, including mining ores, that are
   encapsulated into polymers to provide a slow or targeted release of the chemical
   once released into the flotation cell or column 12. By way of example, the one or
 0 more chemicals may include chemical mixes both now known and later developed in
   the future, including typical frothers, collectors and other additives used in flotation
   separation. The scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to the type or
   kind of chemicals or chemical mixes that may be released into the flotation cell or
   column 12 using the synthetic bubbles according to the present invention.
 5         The scope of the invention is intended to include other types or kinds of
   functionalization of the synthetic beads or bubbles in order to provide other types or
   kinds of control of the chemistry of the process being performed in the cell or
   column, including either functionalizations and controls both now known and later
   developed in the future.        For example, the synthetic beads or bubbles may be
20 functionalized to control the pH of the mixture that forms part of the flotation
   separation process being performed in the flotation cell or column.
                                Figure 2: The Collision Technique
           Figure 2 shows alternative apparatus generally indicated as 200 in the form of
25 an alternative flotation cell 201 that is based at least partly on a collision technique
                                                ~47~

   between the mixture and the synthetic bubbles or beads, according to some
   embodiments of the present invention. The mixture 202, e.g. the pulp slurry, may be
   received in a top part or piping 204, and the synthetic bubbles or beads 206 may be
   received in a bottom part or piping 208. The flotation cell 201 may be configured to
 5 include a first device 210 for receiving the mixture 202, and also may be configured
   to include a second device 212 for receiving the polymer-based materials. The first
   device 210 and the second device 212 are configured to face towards one another
   so as to provide the mixture 202 and the synthetic bubbles or beads 206, e.g.,
   polymer or polymer-based materials, using the collision technique. In Figure 2, the
 0 arrows 210a represent the mixture being sprayed, and the arrows 212a represent
   the synthetic bubbles or beads 206 being sprayed towards one another in the
   flotation cell 201.
           In operation, the collision technique causes vortices and collisions using
   enough energy to increase the probability of touching of the polymer or polymer
 5 based materials 206 and the valuable material in the mixture 202, but not too much
   energy to destroy bonds that form between the polymer or polymer-based materials
   206 and the valuable material in the mixture 202. Pumps, not shown, may be used
   to provide the mixture 202 and the synthetic bubbles or beads 206 are the
   appropriate pressure in order to implement the collision technique.
20         By way of example, the first device 210 and the second device 212 may take
   the form of shower-head like devices having a perforated nozzle with a multiplicity of
   holes for spraying the mixture and the synthetic bubbles or beads towards one
   another.    Shower-head like devices are known in the art, and the scope of the
   invention is not intended to be limited to any particular type or kind thereof either now
25 known or later developed in the future. Moreover, based on that disclosed in the
                                             ~48~

   instant patent application, a person skilled in the art without undue experimentation
   would be able to determine the number and size of the holes for spraying the mixture
   202 and the synthetic bubbles or beads 206 towards one another, as well as the
   appropriate pumping pressure in order to provide enough energy to increase the
 5 probability of touching of the polymer or polymer-based materials 206 and the
   valuable material in the mixture 202, but not too much energy to destroy bonds that
   form between the polymer or polymer-based materials 206 and the valuable material
   in the mixture 202.
           As a result of the collision between the synthetic bubbles or beads 206 and
 0 the mixture, enriched synthetic bubbles or beads having the valuable material
   attached thereto will float to the top and form part of the froth in the flotation cell 201.
   The flotation cell 201 may include a top part or piping 214 configured to provide
   enriched synthetic bubbles or beads 216, e.g., enriched polymer bubbles as shown,
   having the valuable material attached thereto, which may be further processed
 5 consistent with that set forth herein.
           The alternative apparatus 200 may be used in place of the flotation columns
   or cells, and inserted into the apparatus or system shown in Figure 1, and may prove
   to be more efficient than using the flotation columns or cells.
20                      Figures 3a-5d: The Synthetic Bubbles or Beads
           The bubbles or beads used in mineral separation are referred herein as
   synthetic bubbles or beads. At least the surface of the synthetic bubbles or beads
   has a layer of polymer functionalized to attract or attach to the value material or
   mineral particles in the mixture. The term "polymer bubbles or beads", and the term
25 "synthetic bubbles or beads" are used interchangeably. The term "polymer" in this
                                              ~49~

   specification means a large molecule made of many units of the same or similar
   structure linked together. The unit can be a monomer or an oligomer which forms
   the basis of, for example, polyamides (nylon), polyesters, polyurethanes, phenol
   formaldehyde,       urea-formaldehyde,         melamine-formaldehyde,        polyacetal,
 5 polyethylene, polyisobutylene, polyacrylonitrile, poly(vinyl chloride), polystyrene,
   poly(methyl     methacrylates),    poly(vinyl   acetate),   poly(vinylidene    chloride),
   polyisoprene,    polybutadiene,    polyacrylates,   poly(carbonate),    phenolic   resin,
   polydimethylsiloxane and other organic or inorganic polymers. The list is not
   necessarily exhaustive. Thus, the synthetic material can be hard or rigid like plastic
 0 or soft and flexible like an elastomer. While the physical properties of the synthetic
   beads can vary, the surface of the synthetic beads is chemically functionalized to
   provide a plurality of functional groups to attract or attach to mineral particles. (By
   way of example, the term "functional group" may be understood to be a group of
   atoms responsible for the characteristic reactions of a particular compound, including
 5 those define the structure of a family of compounds and determine its properties.)
           For aiding a person of ordinary skill in the art in understanding various
   embodiments of the present invention, Figure 3a shows a generalized synthetic bead
   and Figure 3b shows an enlarged portion of the surface. The synthetic bead can be
   a size-based bead or bubble, weight-based polymer bead and bubble, and/or
20 magnetic-based bead and bubble. As shown in Figures 3a and 3b, the synthetic
   bead 70 has a bead body to provide a bead surface 74. At least the outside part of
   the bead body is made of a synthetic material, such as polymer, so as to provide a
   plurality of molecules or molecular segments76 on the surface 74. The molecule 76
   is used to attach a chemical functional group 78 to the surface 74.      In general, the
25 molecule 76 can be a hydrocarbon chain, for example, and the functional group 78
                                             ~50~

   can have an anionic bond for attracting or attaching a mineral, such as copper to the
   surface 74.    A xanthate, for example, has both the functional group 78 and the
   molecular segment 76 to be incorporated into the polymer that is used to make the
   synthetic bead 70. A functional group 78 is also known as a collector that is either
 5 ionic or non-ionic. The ion can be anionic or cationic. An anion includes oxyhydryl,
   such as carboxylic, sulfates and sulfonates, and sulfhydral, such as xanthates and
   dithiophosphates. Other molecules or compounds that can be used to provide the
   function group 78 include, but are not limited to, thionocarboamates, thioureas,
   xanthogens, monothiophosphates, hydroquinones and polyamines.            Similarly, a
 0 chelating agent can be incorporated into or onto the polymer as a collector site for
   attracting a mineral, such as copper. As shown in Figure 3b, a mineral particle 72 is
   attached to the functional group 78 on a molecule 76. In general, the mineral particle
   72 is much smaller than the synthetic bead 70. Many mineral particles 72 can be
   attracted to or attached to the surface 74 of a synthetic bead 70.
 5         In some embodiments of the present invention, a synthetic bead has a solid
   phase body made of a synthetic material, such as polymer. The polymer can be
   rigid or elastomeric. An elastomeric polymer can be polyisoprene or polybutadiene,
   for example.     The synthetic bead 70 has a bead body 80 having a surface
   comprising a plurality of molecules with one or more functional groups for attracting
20 mineral particles to the surface.     A polymer having a functional group to collect
   mineral particles is referred to as a functionalized polymer. In one embodiment, the
   entire interior part 82 of the synthetic bead 80 is made of the same functionalized
   material, as shown in Figure 4a.        In another embodiment, the bead body 80
   comprises a shell 84. The shell 84 can be formed by way of expansion, such as
25 thermal expansion or pressure reduction. The shell 84 can be a micro-bubble or a
                                            ~51 ~

   balloon. In Figure 4b, the shell 84, which is made of functionalized material, has an
   interior part 86. The interior part 86 can be filled with air or gas to aid buoyancy, for
   example. The interior part 86 can be used to contain a liquid to be released during
   the mineral separation process. The encapsulated liquid can be a polar liquid or a
 5 non-polar liquid, for example.      The encapsulated liquid can contain a depressant
   composition for the enhanced separation of copper, nickel, zinc, lead in sulfide ores
   in the flotation stage, for example.     The shell 84 can be used to encapsulate a
   powder which can have a magnetic property so as to cause the synthetic bead to be
   magnetic, for example. The encapsulated liquid or powder may contain monomers,
 0 oligomers or short polymer segments for wetting the surface of mineral particles
   when released from the beads. For example, each of the monomers or oligomers
   may contain one functional group for attaching to a mineral particle and an ion for
   attaching the wetted mineral particle to the synthetic bead. The shell 84 can be used
   to encapsulate a solid core, such as Styrofoam to aid buoyancy, for example. In yet
 5 another embodiment, only the coating of the bead body is made of functionalized
   polymer. As shown in Figure 4c, the synthetic bead has a core 90 made of ceramic,
   glass or metal and only the surface of core 90 has a coating 88 made of
   functionalized polymer. The core 90 can be a hollow core or a filled core depending
   on the application. The core 90 can be a micro-bubble, a sphere or balloon. For
20 example, a filled core made of metal makes the density of the synthetic bead to be
   higher than the density of the pulp slurry, for example. The core 90 can be made of
   a magnetic material so that the para-, ferri-, ferro-magnetism of the synthetic bead is
   greater than the para-, ferri-, ferro-magnetism of the unwanted ground ore particle in
   the mixture. In a different embodiment, the synthetic bead can be configured with a
25 ferro-magnetic or ferri-magnetic core that attract to paramagnetic surfaces. A core
                                             ~52~

   90 made of glass or ceramic can be used to make the density of the synthetic bead
   substantially equal to the density of the pulp slurry so that when the synthetic beads
   are mixed into the pulp slurry for mineral collection, the beads can be in a
   suspension state.
 5          According to a different embodiment of the present invention, the synthetic
   bead 70 can be a porous block or take the form of a sponge or foam with multiple
   segregated gas filled chambers. The combination of air and the synthetic beads or
   bubbles 70 can be added to traditional naturally aspirated flotation cell.
            It should be understood that the term "bead" does not limit the shape of the
 0 synthetic bead of the present invention to be spherical, as shown in Figure 3.        In
   some embodiments of the present invention, the synthetic bead 70 can have an
   elliptical shape, a cylindrical shape, a shape of a block. Furthermore, the synthetic
   bead can have an irregular shape.
            It should also be understood that the surface of a synthetic bead, according to
 5 the present invention, is not limited to an overall smooth surface as shown in Figure
   3a. In some embodiments of the present invention, the surface can be irregular and
   rough.      For example, the surface 74 can have some physical structures 92 like
   grooves or rods as shown in Figure 5a. The surface 74 can have some physical
   structures 94 like holes or dents as shown in Figure 5b. The surface 74 can have
20 some physical structures 96 formed from stacked beads as shown in Figure 5c. The
   surface 74 can have some hair-like physical structures 98 as shown in Figure 5d.
   In addition to the functional groups on the synthetic beads that attract mineral
   particles to the bead surface, the physical structures can help trapping the mineral
   particles on the bead surface. The surface 74 can be configured to be a honeycomb
                                             ~53~

   surface or sponge-like surface for trapping the mineral particles and/or increasing the
   contacting surface.
           It should also be noted that the synthetic beads of the present invention can
   be realized by a different way to achieve the same goal. Namely, it is possible to
 5 use a different means to attract the mineral particles to the surface of the synthetic
   beads. For example, the surface of the polymer beads, shells can be functionalized
   with a hydrophobic chemical molecule or compound.           Alternatively, the surface of
   beads made of glass, ceramic and metal can be coated with hydrophobic chemical
   molecules or compounds.          Using the coating of glass beads as an example,
 0 polysiloxanates can be used to functionalize the glass beads in order to make the
   synthetic beads. In the pulp slurry, xanthate and hydroxamate collectors can also be
   added therein for collecting the mineral particles and making the mineral particles
   hydrophobic. When the synthetic beads are used to collect the mineral particles in
   the pulp slurry having a pH value around 8-9, it is possible to release the mineral
 5 particles on the enriched synthetic beads from the surface of the synthetic beads in
   an acidic solution, such as a sulfuric acid solution. It is also possible to release the
   mineral particles carrying with the enriched synthetic beads by sonic agitation, such
   as ultrasonic waves.
           The multiplicity of hollow objects, bodies, elements or structures may include
20 hollow cylinders or spheres, as well as capillary tubes, or some combination thereof.
   The scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to the type, kind or geometric
   shape of the hollow object, body, element or structure or the uniformity of the mixture
   of the same. Each hollow object, body, element or structure may be configured with
   a dimension so as not to absorb liquid, including water, including where the
25 dimension is in a range of about 20-30 microns.      Each hollow object, body, element
                                             ~54~

   or structure may be made of glass or a glass-like material, as well as some other
   suitable material either now known or later developed in the future.
           By way of example, the multiplicity of hollow objects, bodies, elements or
   structures that are received in the mixture may include a number in a range of
 5 multiple thousands of bubbles or beads per cubic foot of mixture, although the scope
   of the invention is not intended to be limited per se to the specific number of bubbles.
   For instance, a mixture of about three thousand cubic feet may include multiple
   millions of bubbles or beads, e.g., having a size of about 1 millimeter, in three
   thousand cubic feet of the mixture.
 0         The multiplicity of hollow objects, bodies, elements or structures may be
   configured with chemicals applied to prevent migration of liquid into respective
   cavities, unfilled spaces or holes before the wet concrete mixture cures, including
   where the chemicals are hydrophobic chemicals.
           The one or more bubbles may take the form of a small quantity of gas,
 5 including air, that is trapped or maintained in the cavities, unfilled spaces, or holes of
   the multiplicity of hollow objects, bodies, elements or structures.
           The scope of the invention is intended to include the synthetic bubbles or
   beads shown herein being made from a polymer or polymer-based material, or a
   silica or silica-based, or a glass or glass-based material.
20
                              Figures 6-11: Releasing Mechanism
           Various embodiments of the present invention are envisioned as examples to
   show that the valuable minerals can be mechanically, chemically, thermally, optically
   or electromagnetically removed or released from the enriched synthetic beads or
25 bubbles.
                                              ~55~

           By way of example, the bead recovery process or processor 50 as shown in
   Figure 1 can be adapted for the removal of valuable minerals from the enriched
   synthetic beads or bubbles in different ways. The releasing apparatus may include,
   or take the form of, a heater 150 (Figure 6) configured to provide thermal heat for the
 5 removal of the valuable minerals from the enriched synthetic beads or bubbles; an
   ultrasonic wave producer 164 (Figure 7) configured to provide an ultrasonic wave for
   the removal of valuable minerals from the enriched synthetic beads or bubbles, a
   container 168 (Figure 8) configured to provide an acid or acidic solution 170 for the
   removal of the valuable minerals from the enriched synthetic beads or bubbles; a
 0 microwave source 172 (Figure 9) configured to provide microwaves for the removal
   of the valuable minerals from the enriched synthetic beads or bubbles, a motor 186
   and a stirrer 188 (Figure 10) configured to stir the enriched synthetic beads or
   bubbles for the removal of the valuable minerals from the enriched synthetic beads
   or bubbles; and multiple release or recovery processors (Figure 11) configured to
 5 use multiple release or recovery techniques for the removal of the valuable minerals
   from the enriched synthetic beads or bubbles. According to some embodiments of
   the present invention, the aforementioned releasing apparatus may be responsive to
   signalling, e.g., from a controller or control processor. In view of the aforementioned,
   and by way of example, the releasing techniques are set forth in detail below:
20
                            Thermally Releasing Valuable Material
           The synthetic beads or bubbles 70, as shown in Figure 3a to 5c, can be made
   of a polymer which is softened when subjected to elevated temperature. It is known
   that a polymer may become rubbery above a certain temperature. This is due to the
25 polymer-glass transition at a glass transition temperature, Tg.          In general, the
                                              ~56~

   physical properties of a polymer are dependent on the size or length of the polymer
   chain. In polymers above a certain molecular weight, increasing chain length tends
   to increase the glass transition temperature Tg. This is a result of the increase in
   chain interactions such as Van der Waals attractions and entanglements that may
 5 come with increased chain length. A polymer such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC), has
   a glass transition temperature around 83 degrees Celsius. If the polymer bubbles or
   beads 70 have a hair-like surface structures 98 (see Figure 5d) in order to trap the
   mineral particles 72 (see Figure 3b), the hair-like surface structures 98 could become
   soft. Thus, in a certain polymer at the rubbery state, the hair-like surface structures
 0 98 could lose the ability of holding the mineral particles.       Since the separation
   process as shown in Figures 1 and 2 is likely to take place in room temperature or
   around 23 degrees Celsius. Any temperature, say, higher than 50 degrees Celsius,
   could soften the hair-like surface structures 98 (see Figure 5d).          For synthetic
   bubbles or beads 70 made of PVC, a temperature around or higher than 83 degrees
 5 Celsius can be used to dislodge the mineral particles from the surface structure of
   the synthetic bubbles or beads.       According to one embodiment of the present
   invention, the bead recovery process or processor 50 as shown in Figure 1 can be
   adapted for removing the mineral particles in the enriched polymer bubbles 18. For
   example, as the reclaimed water is moved out of the thickener 60 through piping 64,
20 a heater 150 can be used to heat the reclaimed water as shown in Figure 6. As
   such, the heated reclaimed water 152 can be arranged to wash the enriched polymer
   bubbles 18 inside the flotation column 54, thereby releasing at least some of the
   valuable material or mineral particles attached on the enriched polymer bubbles 18
   to piping 58.    It is possible to heat the reclaimed water to or beyond the glass
25 transition temperature of the polymer that is used to make the polymer bubbles. The
                                            ~57~

   elevated temperature of the heated reclaimed water 152 could also weaken the
   bonds between the collectors 78 and the mineral particles 72 (see Figure 3b). It is
   possible to use a heater to boil the water into steam and to apply the steam to the
   enriched polymer bubbles. It is also possible to generate superheated steam under
 5 a pressure and to apply the superheated steam to the enriched polymer bubbles.
                           Sonically Releasing Valuable Material
           When ultrasonic waves are applied in a solution or mixture containing the
   enriched polymer bubbles or beads, at least two possible effects could take place in
 0 interrupting the attachment of the valuable material to the surface of the polymer
   bubbles or beads. The sound waves could cause the attached mineral particles to
   move rapidly against the surface of the polymer bubbles or beads, thereby shaking
   the mineral particles loose from the surface. The sound waves could also cause a
   shape change to the synthetic bubbles, affecting the physical structures on the
 5 surface of the synthetic bubbles.      It is known that ultrasound is a cyclic sound
   pressure with a frequency greater than the upper limit of human hearing. Thus, in
   general, ultrasound goes from just above 20 kilohertz (KHz) all the way up to about
   300KHz. In ultrasonic cleaners, low frequency ultrasonic cleaners have a tendency
   to remove larger particle sizes more effectively than higher operational frequencies.
20 However, higher operational frequencies tend to produce a more penetrating
   scrubbing action and to remove particles of a smaller size more effectively.        In
   mineral releasing applications involving mineral particles finer than 100pm to 1mm or
   larger, according to some embodiments of the present invention, the ultrasonic wave
   frequencies range from 10Hz to 10MHz.          By way of example, the bead recovery
25 process or processor 50 as shown in Figure 1 can be adapted for removing the
                                             ~58~

   mineral particles in the enriched polymer bubbles 18 by applying ultrasound to the
   solution in the flotation column 54. For example, as the reclaimed water from piping
   64 is used to wash the enriched polymer bubbles 18 inside the flotation column 54, it
   is possible to use an ultrasonic wave producer 164 to apply the ultrasound 166 in
 5 order to release the valuable material (mineral particles 72, Figure 3b) from the
   enriched polymer bubbles 18.       A diagram illustrating the ultrasonic application is
   shown in Figure 7. According to some embodiments of the present application, an
   ultrasonic frequency that is the resonant frequency of the synthetic beads or bubbles
   is selected for mineral releasing applications.
 0
                            Chemically Releasing Valuable Material
   In physisorption, the valuable minerals are reversibly associated with the synthetic
   bubbles or beads, attaching due to electrostatic attraction or van der Waals bonding.
   The physisorbed mineral particles can be desorbed or released from the surface of
 5 the synthetic bubbles or beads if the pH value of the solution changes. Furthermore,
   the surface chemistry of the most minerals is affected by the pH.       Some minerals
   develop a positive surface charge under acidic conditions and a negative charge
   under alkaline conditions. The effect of pH changes is generally dependent on the
   collector and the mineral collected. For example, chalcopyrite becomes desorbed at
20 a higher pH value than galena, and galena becomes desorbed at a higher pH value
   than pyrite. If the valuable mineral is collected at a pH of 8 to 11, it is possible to
   weaken the bonding between the valuable mineral and the surface of the polymer
   bubbles or beads by lower the pH to 7 and lower.          However, an acidic solution
   having a pH value of 5 or lower would be more effective in releasing the valuable
25 mineral from the enriched polymer bubbles or beads. According to one embodiment
                                            ~59~

   of the present invention, the bead recovery process or processor 50 as shown in
   Figure 1 can be adapted for removing the mineral particles in the enriched polymer
   bubbles 18 by changing the pH of the solution in the flotation column 54.          For
   example, as the reclaimed water from piping 64 is used to wash the enriched
 5 polymer bubbles 18 inside the flotation column 54, it is possible to use a container
   168 to release an acid or acidic solution 170 into the reclaimed water as shown in
   Figure 8. There are a number of acids easily available for changing the pH. For
   example, sulfuric acid (HCI), hydrochloric acid (H2SO4), nitric acid (HNO3), perchloric
   acid (HCIO4), hydrobromic acid (HBr) and hydroiodic acid (HI) are among the strong
 0 acids that completely dissociate in water.    However, sulfuric acid and hydrochloric
   acid can give the greater pH change at the lowest cost. The pH value used for
   mineral releasing ranges from 7 to 0. Using a very low pH may cause the polymer
   beads to degrade. It should be noted that, however, when the valuable material is
   copper, for example, it is possible to provide a lower pH environment for the
 5 attachment of mineral particles and to provide a higher pH environment for the
   releasing of the mineral particles from the synthetic beads or bubbles.
   In general, the pH value is chosen to facilitate the strongest attachment, and a
   different pH value is chosen to facilitate release.        Thus, according to some
   embodiments of the present invention, one pH value is chosen for mineral
20 attachment, and a different pH value is chosen for mineral releasing. The different
   pH could be higher or lower, depending on the specific mineral and collector.
                      Electromagnetically Releasing Valuable Material
           More than one way can be used to interrupt the bonding between the mineral
25 particles and the synthetic bubbles or beads electromagnetically. For example, it is
                                             ~60~

   possible to use microwaves to heat up the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads and
   the water in the flotation column. It is also possible use a laser beam to weaken the
   bonds between the functional groups and the polymer surface itself. Thus, it is
   possible to provide a microwave source or a laser light source where the enriched
 5 synthetic bubbles or beads are processed. By way of example, the bead recovery
   process or processor 50 as shown in Figure 1 can be adapted for removing the
   mineral particles in the enriched polymer bubbles 18 by using an electromagnetic
   source to provide electromagnetic waves to the solution or mixture in the flotation
   column 54. For example, as the reclaimed water from piping 64 is used to wash the
 0 enriched polymer bubbles 18 inside the flotation column 54, it is possible to use a
   microwave source 172 to apply the microwave beam 174 in order to release the
   valuable material (mineral particles 72, Figure 3b) from the enriched polymer
   bubbles 18. A diagram illustrating the ultrasonic application is shown in Figure 9.
 5                         Mechanically Releasing Valuable Material
          When the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads are densely packed such that
   they are in a close proximity to each other, the rubbing action among adjacent
   synthetic bubbles or beads may cause the mineral particles attached to the enriched
   synthetic bubbles or beads to be detached. By way of example, the bead recovery
20 process or processor 50 as shown in Figure 1 can be adapted for removing the
   mineral particles in the enriched polymer bubbles 18 mechanically. For example, a
   motor 186 and a stirrer 188 are used to move the enriched polymer bubbles around,
   causing the enriched polymer bubbles or beads 18 inside the flotation column 54 to
   rub against each other. If the synthetic bubbles or beads are magnetic, the stirrer
                                             ~61 ~

   188 can be a magnetic stirrer.         A diagram illustrating a mechanical release of
   valuable material is shown in Figure 10.
                         Other Types or Kinds of Release Techniques
 5         A heater like element 150 (Figure 6), an ultrasonic wave producer like
   element 164 (Figure 7), a container like element 168 (Figure 8), a microwave source
   like element 172 (Figure 9), a motor and stirrer like elements 186 188 (Figure 10) are
   known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to any
   particular type or kind thereof either now known or later developed in the future.
 0         The scope of the invention is also intended to include other types or kinds of
   releasing apparatus consistent with the spirit of the present invention either now
   known or later developed in the future.
                           Multi-Stage Removal of Valuable Material
 5         More than one of the methods for releasing the valuable material from the
   enriched synthetic bubbles or beads can be used in the same bead recovery process
   or processor at the same time. For example, while the enriched synthetic bubbles or
   beads 18 are subjected to ultrasonic agitation (see Figure 7), the reclaimed water
   can also be heated by a water heater, such as a heater 150 as depicted in Figure 6.
20 Furthermore, an acidic solution can be also added to the water to lower the pH in the
   flotation column 54.     In a different embodiment of the present invention, same or
   different releasing methods are used sequentially in different stages.        By way of
   example, the enriched polymer bubbles 216 from the separation apparatus 200 (see
   Figure 2) can be processed in a multi-state processor 203 as shown in Figure 11.
25 The apparatus 200 has a first recovery processor 218 where an acidic solution is
                                             ~62~

   used to release the valuable material at least partially from the enriched polymer
   bubbles 216.     A filter 219 is used to separate the released mineral 226 from the
   polymer bubbles 220. At a second recovery processor 222, an ultrasound source is
   used to apply ultrasonic agitation to the polymer bubbles 220 in order to release the
 5 remaining valuable material, if any, from the polymer bubbles. A filter 223 is used to
   separate the released mineral 226 from the reclaimed polymer bubbles 224. It is
   understood that more than two processing stages can be carried out and different
   combinations of releasing methods are possible.
 0                               Figure 12: Horizontal Pipeline
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the separation
   process can be carried out in a horizontal pipeline as shown in Figure 12. As shown
   in Figure 12, the synthetic bubbles or beads 308 may be used in, or form part of, a
   size-based separation process using countercurrent flows with mixing implemented
 5 in apparatus such as a horizontal pipeline generally indicated as 300. In Figure 12,
   the horizontal pipeline 310 is configured with a screen 311 to separate the enriched
   synthetic bubbles or beads 302 having the valuable material attached thereto from
   the mixture based at least partly on the difference in size. The horizontal pipeline
   310 may be configured to separate the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads 302
20 having the valuable material attached thereto from the mixture using countercurrent
   flows with mixing, so as to receive in the horizontal pipeline 310 slurry 304 flowing in
   a first direction A, receive in the horizontal pipeline 300 synthetic bubbles or beads
   308 flowing in a second direction B opposite to the first direction A, provide from the
   horizontal pipeline 308 the enriched synthetic bubbles or beads 302 having the
25 valuable material attached thereto and flowing in the second direction B, and provide
                                             ~63~

   from the horizontal pipeline 310 waste or tailings 306 that is separated from the
   mixture using the screen 311 and flowing in the second direction B. In a horizontal
   pipeline 310, it is not necessary that the synthetic beads or bubbles 308 be lighter
   than the slurry 304.      The density of the synthetic beads or bubbles 308 can be
 5 substantially equal to the density of the slurry 304 so that the synthetic beads or
   bubbles can be in a suspension state while they are mixed with slurry 304 in the
   horizontal pipeline 310.
           It should be understood that the sized-based bead or bubble, weight-based
   bead or bubble, magnetic-based bead or bubble as described in conjunction with
 0 Figures 3a-5d can be functionalized to be hydrophobic so as to attract mineral
   particles. Figure 13a shows a generalized hydrophobic synthetic bead, Figure 13b
   shows an enlarged portion of the bead surface and a mineral particle, and Figure
   13b shows an enlarged portion of the bead surface and a non-mineral particle. As
   shown in Figure 13a the hydrophobic synthetic bead 170 has a polymer surface 174
 5 and a plurality of particles 172, 172' attached to the polymer surface 174. Figure 13b
   shows an enlarged portion of the polymer surface 174 on which a plurality of
   molecules 179 rendering the polymer surface 174 hydrophobic.
           A mineral particle 171 in the slurry, after combined with one or more collector
   molecules 73, becomes a wetted mineral particle 172.         The collector molecule 73
20 has a functional group 78 attached to the mineral particle 171 and a hydrophobic end
   or molecular segment 76.         The hydrophobic end or molecular segment 76 is
   attracted to the hydrophobic molecules 179 on the polymer surface 174. Figure 13c
   shows an enlarged portion of the polymer surface 174 with a plurality of hydrophobic
   molecules 179 for attracting a non-mineral particle 172'.     The non-mineral particle
25 172' has a particle body 171' with one or more hydrophobic molecular segments 76
                                              ~64~

   attached thereto. The hydrophobic end or molecular segment 76 is attracted to the
   hydrophobic molecules 179 on the polymer surface 174.          The term "polymer" in this
   specification means a large molecule made of many units of the same or similar
   structure linked together. Furthermore, the polymer associated with Figures 13a-13c
 5 can be naturally hydrophobic or functionalized to be hydrophobic. Some polymers
   having a long hydrocarbon chain or silicon-oxygen backbone, for example, tend to be
   hydrophobic.        Hydrophobic      polymers   include    polystyrene,  poly(d,l-lactide),
   poly(dimethylsiloxane), polypropylene, polyacrylic, polyethylene, etc. The bubbles or
   beads, such as synthetic bead 170 can be made of glass to be coated with
 0 hydrophobic silicone polymer including polysiloxanates so that the bubbles or beads
   become hydrophobic. The bubbles or beads can be made of metal to be coated with
   silicone alkyd copolymer, for example, so as to render the bubbles or beads
   hydrophobic.     The bubbles or beads can be made of ceramic to be coated with
   fluoroalkylsilane, for example, so as to render the bubbles and beads hydrophobic.
 5 The bubbles or beads can be made of hydrophobic polymers, such as polystyrene
   and polypropylene to provide a hydrophobic surface. The wetted mineral particles
   attached to the hydrophobic synthetic bubble or beads can be released thermally,
   ultrasonically, electromagnetically, mechanically or in a low pH environment.
           Figure 14a illustrates a scenario where a mineral particle 72 is attached to a
20 number of synthetic beads 74 at the same time. Thus, although the synthetic beads
   74 are much smaller in size than the mineral particle 72, a number of synthetic
   beads 74 may be able to lift the mineral particle 72 upward in a flotation cell.
   Likewise, a smaller mineral particle 72 can also be lifted upward by a number of
   synthetic beads 74 as shown in Figure 14b.         In order to increase the likelihood for
25 this "cooperative" lifting to occur, a large number of synthetic beads 74 can be mixed
                                               ~65~

   into the slurry. Unlike air bubbles, the density of the synthetic beads can be chosen
   such that the synthetic beads may stay along in the slurry before they rise to surface
   in a flotation cell.
            Figures 15a and 15b illustrate a similar scenario. As shown, a wetted mineral
 5 particle 172 is attached to a number of hydrophobic synthetic beads 174 at the same
   time.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, only a portion of the
   surface of the synthetic bead is functionalized to be hydrophobic.             This has the
   benefits as follows:
 0          1. Keeps too many beads from clumping together - or limits the clumping of
   beads,
           2. Once a mineral is attached, the weight of the mineral is likely to force the
   bead to rotate, allowing the bead to be located under the bead as it rises through the
   flotation cell;
 5                 a. Better cleaning as it may let the gangue to pass through
                   b. Protects the attached mineral particle or particles from being
   knocked off, and
                   c. Provides clearer rise to the top collection zone in the flotation cell.
20         According to some embodiments of the present invention, only a portion of the
   surface of the synthetic bead is functionalized with collectors. This also has the
   benefits of
            1. Once a mineral is attached, the weight of the mineral is likely to force the
   bead to rotate, allowing the bead to be located under the bead as it rises through the
25 flotation cell;
                                               ~66~

                  a. Better cleaning as it may let the gangue to pass through
                  b. Protects the attached mineral particle or particles from being
   knocked off, and
                  c. Provides clearer rise to the top collection zone in the flotation cell.
 5
          According to some embodiments of the present invention, one part of the
   synthetic bead is functionalized with collectors while another part of same synthetic
   bead is functionalized to be hydrophobic as shown in Figures 16a and 16b.                 As
   shown in Figure 16a, a synthetic bead 74 has a surface portion where polymer is
 0 functionalized to have collector molecules 73 with functional group 78 and molecular
   segment 76 attached to the surface of the bead 74. The synthetic bead 74 also has
   a different surface portion where polymer is functionalized to have hydrophobic
   molecules 179. In the embodiment as shown in Figure 16b, the entire surface of the
   synthetic bead 74 can be functionalized to have collector molecules 73, but a portion
 5 of the surface is functionalized to have hydrophobic molecules 179 render it
   hydrophobic.
          This "hybrid" synthetic bead can collect mineral particles that are wet and not
   wet.
20                                        Applications
          The scope of the invention is described in relation to mineral separation,
   including the separation of copper from ore.          It should be understood that the
   synthetic beads according to the present invention, whether functionalized to have a
   collector or functionalized to be hydrophobic, are also configured for use in oilsands
25 separation - to separate bitumen from sand and water in the recovery of bitumen in
                                              ~67~

   an oilsands mining operation.     Likewise, the functionalized filters and membranes,
   according to some embodiments of the present invention, are also configured for
   oilsands separation.
           According to some embodiments of the present invention, the surface of a
 5 synthetic bead can be functionalized to have a collector molecule. The collector has
   a functional group with an ion capable of forming a chemical bond with a mineral
   particle.   A mineral particle associated with one or more collector molecules is
   referred to as a wetted mineral particle. According to some embodiments of the
   present invention, the synthetic bead can be functionalized to be hydrophobic in
 0 order to collect one or more wetted mineral particles.
           The scope of the invention is intended to include other types or kinds of
   applications either now known or later developed in the future, e.g., including a
   flotation circuit, leaching, smelting, a gravity circuit, a magnetic circuit, or water
   pollution control.
 5
                                  The Scope of the Invention
           It should be further appreciated that any of the features, characteristics,
   alternatives or modifications described regarding a particular embodiment herein
   may also be applied, used, or incorporated with any other embodiment described
20 herein. In addition, it is contemplated that, while the embodiments described herein
   are useful for homogeneous flows, the embodiments described herein can also be
   used for dispersive flows having dispersive properties (e.g., stratified flow). Although
   the invention has been described and illustrated with respect to exemplary
   embodiments thereof, the foregoing and various other additions and omissions may
                                            ~68~

be made therein and thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the
present invention.
                                    ~69~

   What is claimed is:
   1.     Apparatus comprising:
          a first cell comprising a top part and a bottom part, the top part configured to
   receive an ore slurry having mineral particles, the bottom part configured to receive
 5 unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector
   chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles,
   wherein the first cell is configured to maintain the ore slurry at a predetermined
   temperature, and the unexpanded polymer microspheres are configured with a
   blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below the
 0 predetermined temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres to
   expand in volume into expanded polymer microspheres having an increased sphere
   surface area when received in the first cell, the first cell further configured to provide
   an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded polymer
   microspheres with attached mineral particles; and
 5        a second cell configured to receive the expanded polymer microsphere foam
   layer, wherein the second cell comprises a release tank in the form of a re
   pressurization cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured to collapse the
   expanded polymer microspheres-in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres
   having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the
20 attached mineral particles.
   2.     Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first cell comprises a flotation
   cell.
                                             ~70~

   3.      Apparatus according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first cell comprises an
   agitator configured to cause or induce agitation to mix the ore slurry and polymer
   microspheres.
   4.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the blowing
 5 agent comprises a liquid that responses to a change in temperature and transforms
   into a gas.
   5.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 3, wherein the
   blowing agent comprises a gas that responses to a change in temperature and
   transforms from a lower pressure phase into a higher pressure phase.
 o 6.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres are cooled or chilled to a temperature below the
   predetermined temperature prior to receiving into the first cell.
   7.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   expanded polymer microspheres are configured to become buoyant and create an
 5 increased bubble flux in the ore slurry, presenting surface area for mineral bearing
   particles to attach to and be lifted to the surface and form the expanded polymer
   microsphere foam layer.
   8.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 6, wherein the
   expanded polymer microsphere foam layer takes the form of an agglomerated mass
20 of expanded spheres on the surface to be skimmed and moved to, or spilled over
   into a spillover container and moved to, the second cell, including a release stage.
   9.      Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second
   cell is configured to be filled with the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer or
                                             ~71 ~

   mineral rich foam, and to be pressurized to an elevated level, or chilled to a lower
   temperature, such that the blowing agent reverses through a transition phase,
   including either returning from a gas phase to a liquid phase or returning from a
   higher pressure phase to a lower pressure phase.
 5 10.     Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mineral
   particles separate from the collapsed polymer microspheres due to gravitation
   separation, including where minerals sink in the second cell and where the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres remain buoyant and float.
   11.     Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second
 0 cell is also configured to provide either a mineral concentrate output having the
   mineral particles, or a discarded foam output having the collapsed polymer
   microspheres, or both.
   12.     Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   molecules comprise a functional group for attaching the mineral particles.
 5 13.     Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims1l, wherein the volume
   of the expanded polymer microspheres is about 50 times the volume of the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres.
   14.     A method comprising:
           receiving unexpanded polymer microspheres and an ore slurry having mineral
20 particles in a first cell, the unexpanded polymer microspheres comprising a surface
   having mineral collector chemistry attached thereto with molecules for attaching the
   mineral particles, causing the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand in
   volume into expanded microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and
                                            ~72~

   providing an expanded polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded
   polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles; and
          receiving the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer in a second cell, and
   causing the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed
 5 polymer microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a
   mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles.
   15.    A method according to claim 14, wherein the first cell comprises a flotation
   cell.
   16.    A method according to claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the method comprises
 0 configuring the first cell with an agitator to cause or induce agitation to mix the ore
   slurry and polymer microspheres.
   17.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 16, wherein the
   method comprises configuring the unexpanded polymer microspheres with a blowing
   agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below a predetermined
 5 temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand in
   volume into the expanded polymer microspheres having the increased sphere
   surface area when received in the first cell.
   18.    A method according to claim 17, wherein the method comprises configuring
   the blowing agent with a liquid that responses to a change in temperature and
20 transforms into a gas.
   19.    A method according to claim 17, wherein the method comprises configuring
   the blowing agent with a gas that responses to a change in temperature and
   transforms from a lower pressure phase into a higher pressure phase.
                                             ~73~

   20.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 19, further
   comprising maintaining the ore slurry at a predetermined temperature in the first cell,
   and the unexpanded polymer microspheres are configured with a blowing agent
   encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature set below the predetermined
 5 temperature so as to cause the unexpanded polymer microspheres to expand in
   volume into the expanded polymer microspheres having the increased sphere
   surface area when received in the first cell.
   21.     A method according to claim 20, wherein the method comprises cooling or
   chilling the unexpanded      polymer microspheres to a temperature        below the
 0 predetermined temperature prior to receiving into the first cell.
   22.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 21, wherein the
   expanded polymer microspheres are configured to become buoyant and create an
   increased bubble flux in the ore slurry, presenting surface area for mineral bearing
   particles to attach to and be lifted to the surface and form the expanded polymer
 5 microsphere foam layer.
   23.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 21, wherein the
   expanded polymer microsphere foam layer takes the form of an agglomerated mass
   of expanded spheres on the surface, said method further comprising skimming and
   moving the agglomerated mass to or spilling the agglomerated over into a spillover
20 container and moving the agglomerated mass to, the second cell, including a release
   stage.
   24.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 23, wherein the
   method comprises configuring the second cell as a release tank in the form of a re
   pressurization cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured to collapse the
                                            ~74~

   expanded polymer microspheres in volume into the collapsed polymer microspheres
   that results in the mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles.
   25.    A method according to claim 17, wherein the method comprises filling the
   second cell with the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer or mineral rich foam,
 5 and pressurizing to an elevated level, or chilled to a lower temperature, such that the
   blowing agent reverses through a transition phase, including either returning from a
   gas phase to a liquid phase or returning from a higher pressure phase to a lower
   pressure phase.
   26.    A method to according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 25, wherein
 0 the method comprises separating the mineral particles from the collapsed polymer
   microspheres based at least partly on or due to gravitation separation, including
   where minerals sink in the second cell and where the unexpanded polymer
   microspheres remain buoyant and float.
   27.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 26, wherein the
 5 method comprises configuring to provide either a mineral concentrate output having
   the mineral particles, or a discarded foam output having the collapsed polymer
   microspheres, or both from the second cell.
   28.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 27, wherein the
   method comprises configuring the molecules with a functional group for attaching the
20 mineral particles.
   29.    A method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 28, wherein the
   volume of the expanded polymer microspheres is about 50 times the volume of the
   unexpanded polymer microspheres.
                                           ~ 75~

   30.    Apparatus comprising:
          means for receiving an ore slurry having mineral particles and unexpanded
   polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry
   attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles, maintaining the
 5 ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, wherein the unexpanded polymer
   microspheres are configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a
   trigger temperature set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause the
   unexpanded      polymer     microspheres   to  expand   in   volume    into  expanded
   microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and providing an expanded
 0 polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the expanded polymer microspheres
   with attached mineral particles; and
          means for receiving the expanded polymer microsphere foam layer, causing
   the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed polymer
   microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a mechanical
 5 shearing off of the attached mineral particles, and providing a mineral concentrate
   output having the mineral particles.
   31.    Apparatus comprising:
          a first cell comprising a top part and a bottom part, the top part configured to
   receive an ore slurry having mineral particles, the bottom part configured to receive
20 polymer microspheres comprising a surface having mineral collector chemistry
   attached thereto with molecules for attaching the mineral particles, wherein the first
   cell is configured to provide a polymer microsphere foam layer comprising the
   polymer microspheres with attached mineral particles, wherein the first cell is also
   configured to cause the polymer microspheres to expand in volume into expanded
25 polymer microspheres having an increased sphere surface area, and the first cell is
                                             ~76~

   further configured to maintain the ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, and the
   polymer microspheres are configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that
   has a trigger temperature set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause
   the polymer microspheres to expand in volume into the expanded polymer
 5 microspheres having the increased sphere surface area when received into the first
   cell; and
           a second cell configured to receive the polymer microsphere foam layer,
   wherein the second cell comprises a release tank in the form of a re-pressurization
   cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured to collapse the polymer
 0 microspheres in volume into collapsed polymer microspheres having a reduced
   sphere surface area that results in a mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral
   particles.
   32.     Apparatus according to claim 31, wherein the second cell is also configured to
   provide a mineral concentrate output having the attached mineral particles.
 5 33.     An apparatus comprising:
           a processor configured to receive a plurality of synthetic beads, each of the
   synthetic beads comprising a surface and a plurality of molecules attached to the
   surface, the molecules comprising a functional group for attracting one or more of
   the mineral particles to the molecules, the synthetic beads comprising polymer
20 microspheres, wherein the processor is also configured to cause the polymer
   microspheres to expand in volume into expanded polymer microspheres having a-an
   increased sphere surface area, wherein the processor is configured to maintain the
   ore slurry at a predetermined temperature, and the polymer microspheres are
   configured with a blowing agent encapsulated therein that has a trigger temperature
                                            ~77~

   set below the predetermined temperature so as to cause the polymer microspheres
   to expand in volume into the expanded polymer microspheres having the increased
   sphere surface area when received into the processor; and
           releasing apparatus configured to interrupt a chemical bond of the functional
 5 group so as to remove the mineral particles from the synthetic beads, including by
   causing the expanded polymer microspheres to collapse in volume into collapsed
   polymer microspheres having a reduced sphere surface area that results in a
   mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral particles.
   34.     Apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the releasing apparatus is
 0 configured to provide a mineral concentrate output having the mineral particles.
   35.     Apparatus according to claim 33 or claim 34, wherein the releasing apparatus
   comprises a re-pressurization cell or tank or a condensation cell or tank configured
   to collapse the polymer microspheres in volume into the collapsed polymer
   microspheres that results in the mechanical shearing off of the attached mineral
 5 particles.
   36.     Apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims 33 to 35, wherein the
   releasing apparatus is configured to be filled with an expanded polymer microsphere
   foam layer or mineral rich foam, and to be pressurized to an elevated level, or chilled
   to a lower temperature, such that the blowing agent reverses through a transition
20 phase, including either returning from a gas phase to a liquid phase or returning from
   a higher pressure phase to a lower pressure phase.
   37.     Apparatus   according   to   claim   1, wherein   the  mineral   particles  are
   chalcopyrite.
                                             ~78~

38.   A method  according to claim  15, wherein the mineral particles are
chalcopyrite.
39.   Apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the  mineral particles are
chalcopyrite.
                                  ~79~

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
