                                           Abstract
                          Stimulation device having an appendage
 5
            The invention relates to a stimulation device (1) for erogenous zones, in
   particular for the clitoris (12), wherein the stimulation device (1) has the following:
   at least one pressure field generating arrangement (2) with at least one first
   chamber (3) and at least one second chamber (4) having at least one opening (42) for
10 placing on a body part (11); at least one connection element (5) that connects the first
   chamber (3) to the second chamber (4); a drive unit (6) that varies the volume of the
   first chamber (3) such that a pressure field that serves for stimulation is generated via
   the connection element (5) in the second chamber (4); a control device (7) that
   activates the drive unit (6), and an appendage (140).
15
   3657784v1

                 1/7
Fig. 1
                        1
        9
                     9
               8     4
                     41
           141
       140

                                                 1
                                           Description
                STIMULATION DEVICE HAVING AN APPENDAGE
 5
          The present invention relates to a stimulation device having an appendage for
   erogenous zones, in particular for the clitoris, a system with a stimulation device, and
   methods for stimulating body parts.
10        The erogenous zones of the human body can be stimulated with a variety of
   aids. For example, vibrators are used to apply a stimulus to a particular area of the
   skin by direct contact. These include stimulation aids for insertion into the human
   body, such as dildos.
15        Direct stimulation of the clitoris, for example using a clitoral massage vibrator,
   is frequently problematic. The clitoris is usually a woman's most sensitive erogenous
   zone. The entire clitoris is highly innervated, making it particularly touch-sensitive
   and responsive to sexual stimuli. In this context, the clitoral glans, in which the nerve
   cords of the two crura meet, should be emphasized in particular. Thus, on the one
20 hand frequent application of a clitoral massage vibrator for direct stimulation leads to
   habituation effects or conditioning of the stimulated erogenous zone, while on the
   other the first applications of such a device may require certain practice or
   familiarization. Moreover, indirect stimulation of the female erogenous zones may be
   insufficient, or it may be desired to intensity the stimulation effect.
25
          Furthermore, medical studies conducted in 2006 identified the female clitoris
   as the definitive starting point of the female climax, and for the first time
   neurologically proved the different qualities of sensation of clitoral and vaginal
   orgasm. Thus, both the clitoris and the vagina are capable of orgasm.
30
   3657784v1

                                               2
          Furthermore, the sensitivity of the human erogenous zones, such as the clitoris,
   the inner and outer labia or the nipples, differs greatly from one individual to the
   next. Moreover, the sensitivity of the corresponding zone can change dramatically
   from one situation to another or even during a sexual act. Furthermore, a rapid and
 5 pronounced stimulation of different erogenous zones is frequently desired.
          Various direct and indirect forms of stimulation are usual practice, for example
   vacuum pumps and dildos.
10        For indirect stimulation of erogenous zones, and particularly the clitoris,
   conventional vacuum devices are used to stimulate the erogenous zones of the person
   concerned without directly contacting the main area to be stimulated. Thus, for
   example, vacuum pumps for the primary or secondary female sexual organs are
   known, which usually have a suction cup for placing on the appropriate area and a
15 hand pump. The negative pressure exerted by this type of device on the clitoris, for
   example, generates a negative pressure in the clitoris itself which is usually below
   the systolic blood pressure. This difference in pressure results in an enlargement of
   the clitoris and/or stimulates the blood flow in the affected area. This vascular
   clitoral engorgement serves both to promote desire by increasing sensitivity and for
20 visual and tactile manipulation. The improved blood circulation also results in an
   increased secretion of vaginal moisture, which makes the stimulation more
   pleasurable. However, the manual operation of the hand pump is often onerous or
   irksome. In addition, the long-term or uninterrupted application of negative pressure
   with this device category too may result in habituation effects, which limit the
25 effectiveness of the device in the long term.
          Electrically driven vacuum pumps are also increasingly used instead of a
   manually operated vacuum pump. As an example of this, WO 2006 / 05 82 91 A2
   discloses a device for sexual therapy, wherein the arrangement comprises a tubular
30 suction chamber for the clitoris, an electrical vacuum source (vacuum pump) and a
   plurality of air flow openings. Operation of the vacuum pump generates an ongoing
   3657784v1

                                               3
   air flow or air exchange in the chamber, in the area of the clitoris. This has the
   disadvantageous effect of drawing off by suction the vaginal moisture, which is
   increased as a result of the negative pressure, thus having a drying effect on the
   stimulated skin parts. Likewise, the drawn-off moist air results in contamination of
 5 the fluidically downstream vacuum arrangement, for example the vacuum pump.
   Such arrangements with vacuum pumps may thus be problematic from the point of
   view of hygiene, as vacuum pumps and the associated valves or ventilation
   components often have dead spaces and/or are difficult to clean. Furthermore, the
   device serves to treat the blood vessels in the clitoris and not to provide stimulation
10 up to sexual climax.
          US 6 464 653 BI discloses therapeutic devices and methods that generate a
   clitoral engorgement with the aid of a vacuum generated by a vacuum pump to assist
   in the treatment of clitoral disorders such as incontinence. A control valve or
15 modulator that can be appropriately covered by a finger is used to manually adjust or
   vary the level of vacuum in the suction chamber. This requires the user's attention
   and may be irksome or distracting under certain circumstances. This relatively
   complex device having further valves also has the disadvantages relating to hygiene
   and dehydration that were mentioned above, with the device moreover serving for
20 long-term therapeutic purposes and not for short-term sexual stimulation.
          Thus, the devices of the prior art have the common disadvantage that the
   complexity of the arrangements generating negative pressure or positive pressure
   may be high and this device may have problems in respect of hygiene. Moreover,
25 there is a problem of ease of handling the devices, which are frequently
   uncomfortable to hold and/or require habituation.
          Furthermore, the devices of the prior art have the further common disadvantage
   in that habituation effects occur in the event of long-term, continuous or frequently
30 recurring application of negative pressures.
   3657784v1

                                                 4
          Another disadvantage of some of the previously described vacuum devices is,
   firstly, that the negative pressure has to be limited by means of a control valve or a
   vacuum pump and, secondly, that the negative pressure is supposed to be relieved by
   means of manually opening a release valve before the suction cup is detached from
 5 the skin. Should one of the valves have a technical defect and/or the user operate the
   device incorrectly, there is a risk of injury in certain circumstances.
          Thus, in view of the problems mentioned above, the object of the invention is
   to provide a stimulation device that has a simple construction, is easy and safe to use,
10 and has a pronounced stimulation effect.
          The object of the invention is achieved by the stimulation device as claimed in
   claim 1. Advantageous developments and embodiments are the subject-matter of the
   further independent claims and dependent claims.
15
          According to the invention, a pressure field generating arrangement of the
   stimulation device has at least one first chamber and at least one second chamber
   having at least one opening for placing on a body part or on the erogenous zone and
   at least one connection element that connects the first chamber to the second
20 chamber.
          This embodiment according          to the invention, of chambers        in fluidic
   communication via at least one connection element, allows simple generation of a
   pressure field in the second chamber by changing the volume in the first chamber,
25 this pressure field being temporarily directed at the area of skin to be stimulated.
          A pressure field, in the context of the invention, is a field of medium pressures
   that is variable over time and has temporary positive pressures and temporary
   negative pressures, a negative pressure being a pressure of medium that is below the
30 reference pressure and a positive pressure being a pressure of medium that is above
   the reference pressure. As a result, the medium flows back and forth in the pressure
   3657784v1

                                              5
   field according to the invention. Thus, preferably a (largely) intermittent exchange of
   said medium can occur.
          The medium is usually gaseous, preferably air, but may for example
 5 alternatively or in addition be a liquid medium, such as water or commercially
   available lubricant. For example, the chambers according to the invention may be
   filled with the lubricant prior to using the stimulation device. This also allows the
   corresponding area of skin to be stimulated with a suitable skin-friendly liquid
   instead of air, which may be desired, depending on the user's individual preference.
10 As a further example, the stimulation device may also be used under water with
   water as the medium (in the bathtub, for example). In this case the stimulation device
   is waterproof in form.
          The reference pressure is usually the atmospheric pressure acting on the
15 stimulation device that prevails when application begins (i.e. prior to placing the
   stimulation device on the area of skin to be stimulated). In the preferred application
   of the stimulation device with air, the reference pressure is the currently prevailing
   air pressure or normal pressure. For example, when the device is applied under the
   normal standard conditions the reference pressure may be approximately 1 bar, from
20 which it follows that a negative pressure according to the invention may be for
   example 0.7 bar and a positive pressure according to the invention may be for
   example 1.3 bar.
          The pressure field according to the invention is used on the one hand to excite
25 blood circulation of the area of skin to be stimulated, while on the other said area of
   skin is indirectly massaged. This combines two advantageous effects. The increased
   blood circulation makes the erogenous zone of the person concerned more sensitive,
   while moreover generating a massaging effect that serves to stimulate the erogenous
   zone, for example for sexual arousal up to climax. The massaging effect is generated
30 by the kinetic energy of the medium flowing out of the first chamber through the
   connection element against the surface of the area of skin to be stimulated. In this
   3657784v1

                                               6
   way, the massaging effect created by the pressure field is generated indirectly, i.e.
   without the skin part to be stimulated being in direct contact with a solid body such
   as a vibrator.
 5        By the exemplary application to the clitoris of the pressure field which is
   variable over time according to the invention, the pressure field imitates a stimulation
   that usually occurs during sexual intercourse. Likewise, the motion of congress
   during this generates a varying stimulus of the clitoris. It is thus a lifelike simulation
   of the natural act of congress, with medical findings confirming that application of
10 the pressure field according to the invention causes neither habituation effects nor
   addiction. This is due in particular to the alternating application of negative and
   positive pressures (or indeed to the non-continuous application of only one type of
   pressure).
15        Furthermore, the maximum applicable pressure is typically limited by the
   maximum load that may be put on the area of skin to be stimulated. Thus, for
   instance, too high a negative pressure harbors the risk of painful injury, in particular
   in erogenous zones. Stimulation devices working only with negative pressures are
   usually limited to this maximum in their mode of operation. By contrast, according to
20 the invention the combination of positive and negative pressures creates an extended
   operational range of the stimulation-triggering pressure field or effect, as the
   operational range of the pressure can now be exploited to the maximum in both the
   positive and the negative range.
25        The orientation of the at least one connection element towards the area of skin
   to be stimulated allows the pressure field to work directly, the pressure field being
   decisively affected by the configuration of the at least one connection element and
   the at least one opening from the connection element into the second chamber, and is
   thus adjustable depending on the application of the stimulation device. Thus, the at
30 least one opening of the connection element may be located opposite, preferably
   directly opposite, the body part to be stimulated. For example, the connection
   3657784v1

                                                7
   element in a stimulation device intended for the clitoris may have, between the first
   and second chamber, a single passage opening having a nozzle effect on the clitoral
   glans. Alternatively, the at least one connection element may comprise a plurality of
   passage openings, for example four, between the chambers if a relatively large area
 5 of skin is to be stimulated.
          Furthermore, after placing the halfway or partially opened second chamber on
   the area of skin to be stimulated, a closed system of medium or air flow is created in
   the pressure field generating arrangement. Thus, the medium or air is moved
10 decisively back and forth between the chambers, while an exchange with medium or
   air from outside the system is at least largely avoided. Thus, the first chamber is
   preferably connected exclusively to the second chamber via or through the
   connection element. Thus, the first chamber has no connections other than those to
   the second chamber; for example, there is no direct connection between the first
15 chamber and the environment surrounding the device via a pressure valve or an air
   discharge channel.
          For example, the temperature of the air in the flow system according to the
   invention rapidly adjusts to skin temperature, while the irksome supply of new
20 (possibly cold) air from outside the system, as may be the case when using vacuum
   pumps of the prior art inter alia, is avoided. Drying effects are moreover avoided, as
   very little or no removal of stimulation-promoting fluid, such as bodily fluid, occurs
   in a closed system.
25        Furthermore, due to the simple construction, the pressure field generating
   arrangement according to the invention has the advantage of better hygiene and
   improved     cleaning   capacity. Here,    the present   invention avoids   valves  or
   pumps/compressors with potential dead spaces and places that cannot be cleaned.
   The pressure field generating arrangement according to the invention is thus easy to
30 clean. For example, the stimulation device can be cleaned in a simple manner by
   filling the first chamber with a cleaning agent and activating the pressure field.
   3657784v1

                                              8
   Alternatively, the second chamber can be arranged to be replaceable, which also
   simplifies the cleaning of both chambers. Furthermore, the chambers according to the
   invention and the connection element of the pressure field generating arrangement
   can be manufactured in one piece, wherein they are made for example of a single
 5 plastic molded part (e.g. rubber). As a further alternative, the first chamber, the
   second chamber and the connection element may be made in one piece.
          Moreover, the construction according to the invention has the result of
   avoiding complex fluid engineering elements such as valves, which results in
10 simplified manufacture.
          Furthermore, the stimulation device according to the invention has a drive unit
   that varies the volume of the first chamber such that a pressure field is generated via
   the connection element in the second chamber, this pressure field serving to stimulate
15 the erogenous zone, and a control device that activates the drive unit.
          The principle of the invention means that the medium transported between the
   chambers is limited in volume to the maximum volume of the first chamber.
   Moreover, the transported volume can be further limited, as a result of its
20 construction, by the maximum possible change in volume brought about by the drive
   unit.
          Consequently, the maximum positive or negative pressure the stimulation
   device can build up in the second chamber is limited due to the dimensions of the
25 components of the pressure field generating arrangement and the drive. In particular,
   the maximum positive or negative pressure can be limited to an amount that
   minimizes or rules out any risk of injury for the areas of skin to be stimulated. As a
   result, a safety valve that is usual in the prior art, or a manual intervention in the
   stimulation process by the user, such as the opening of a release valve, is for example
30 rendered unnecessary.
   3657784v1

                                                9
          Furthermore, the variation over time in the pressure field or the modulation of
   the pressure field by the control device is controlled largely automatically. Thus, the
   modulation of the pressure field, such as intensity, time profile or sequence, can be
   previously stored in the control device. Preferably, the variation over time in the
 5 pressure field can have a regular or recurring (stimulation) pattern, such as pulses at a
   predetermined cycle rate or regularly alternating pulse sequences. This allows the
   user's interaction with the stimulation device to be limited according to the invention
   to switching on and off and selecting the stimulation pattern, while the stimulation
   device automatically executes the preferred stimulation pattern. Thus, according to
10 the invention, the complexity of using the stimulation device is low, particularly
   when     compared    with conventional      (medical)  vacuum     stimulation    devices.
   Alternatively or in addition, the stimulation pattern of the stimulation device can be
   individually configured by the user during or before operation.
15        Moreover, according to the invention the stimulation device is provided with
   (at least) one appendage. On the one hand this appendage may be used as a handle in
   order to hold the stimulation device easily and comfortably, and on the other the
   appendage may also be used as a direct stimulation aid for insertion into the human
   body or indeed for placing on the human body.
20
          If the appendage is inserted into the human body, it serves for direct
   stimulation of the body part concerned. Thus, it supplements the indirect stimulation
   effect of the pressure field generating arrangement. It is thus possible for a direct and
   an indirect stimulation of a plurality of erogenous zones to occur simultaneously or
25 alternately. For example, the appendage may be inserted into the female vagina,
   while stimulation of the clitoris may take place at the same time or alternately by
   means of the pressure field according to the invention. Accordingly, the principle
   according to the invention of the combined direct and indirect stimulation may also
   be applied to other body parts, or the erogenous zones thereof. For example, the
30 appendage may be placed on a woman's clitoris while the pressure field generating
   arrangement stimulates another woman's or the same woman's clitoris.
   3657784v1

                                               10
          In this way, the stimulation device having an appendage may be used by only
   one person or indeed by two different people for the stimulation of a plurality of
   erogenous zones.
 5
          The combination of direct and indirect stimulation results in an improvement in
   the stimulation effect and a versatile applicability of the stimulation device.
   Moreover, further, alternative types of play during the sexual act are possible using
   the inventive stimulation device having an appendage.
10
          Thus, according to the invention a stimulation device which has a plurality of
   cumulative orgasm- or stimulation-triggering       effects and is suitable for the
   stimulation of a plurality of erogenous zones, in particular the female clitoris, is
   provided. Furthermore, a device is provided which avoids dehydration of the
15 erogenous zones to be stimulated, is hygienic and avoids habituation effects.
          According to a development of the invention, the appendage is movable with
   the pressure field generating arrangement, for example being connected by means of
   a joint at one end of the appendage. In this way, the stimulation device may be
20 adapted to the anatomy of the human body in question and to its use. For example,
   the appendage may be inserted into the female vagina in order then to adapt the angle
   between the pressure field generating arrangement and the appendage such that the
   opening of the second chamber can be placed precisely over the clitoris.
   Consequently, the area of the body between the clitoris and the vagina is stimulated
25 from both sides, mutually enhancing the effects of direct and indirect stimulation.
          If the appendage is used as a handle for holding the stimulation device, the
   angle between the handle and the opening of the second chamber can be adapted to
   suit the preferences of the user of the device.
30
   3657784v1

                                              11
          According to a development of the invention, the appendage is a stimulation
   aid which is shaped such that the appendage can be inserted into the human body, for
   example the vagina, for direct stimulation. In this case, the appendage preferably
   takes the form of a dildo. Here, sharp corners in particular are avoided. Thus, the
 5 appendage is preferably in a form such that it can be inserted smoothly into body
   cavities and/or also remain inserted therein.
          According to a development of the invention, the appendage (140) is an
   elongate, lens-shaped or pillow-shaped body which is adapted such that the
10 appendage can be inserted smoothly into the female vagina. This improves the direct
   stimulation effect.
          According to a development of the invention, the appendage is mounted on the
   pressure field generating arrangement such that the stimulation device is unitary in
15 form. Here, unitary means in particular that the stimulation device having an
   appendage and a pressure field generating arrangement takes the form of an
   integrated, cohesive device. Preferably, in this case the appendage and the pressure
   field generating arrangement transition into one another seamlessly. This improves
   hygiene and operability of the stimulation device.
20
          According to a development of the invention, the appendage has a vibration
   device. This vibration device may be actuated such that the appendage vibrates, as
   known in the case of electromechanically operated dildos. In this case, the vibration
   may either be activated independently of the other parts of the stimulation device, or
25 indeed the vibration may be controlled by means of the control device, which in that
   case controls the drive unit of the pressure field generating arrangement as well.
   Preferably, the vibration may be controllable in a conventional manner as regards
   intensity, duration and sequence. The vibration intensifies the direct stimulation
   effect.
30
   3657784v1

                                               12
          According to a further aspect of the invention, according to further independent
   claim 20 a system having the stimulation device according to the invention is
   proposed which has a remote control device arranged separately from the stimulation
   device, wherein the control device of the stimulation device is remotely controlled by
 5 the remote control device. This allows a conventional wireless (for example via
   radio) or wired remote control to be employed in order to allow remote-controlled
   modulation of the stimulation device or activation thereof by another user.
          According to a further aspect of the invention, as claimed in claims 21 to 25,
10 methods for stimulating body parts, in particular the clitoris, are proposed. The
   associated advantageous effects are explained in more detail above in relation to the
   pressure field and the appendage.
          According to a further aspect of the invention as claimed in claim 19, the use of
15 the stimulation device according to the invention as a sex toy for stimulating the
   female clitoris is proposed. As explained in the introduction, the female clitoris is a
   particularly sensitive erogenous zone in women, which is why the use according to
   the invention of an indirect massaging stimulation, combined with a negative
   pressure stimulation, for this body part for stimulation up to orgasm appears
20 particularly advantageous.
          In the present invention, the methods for stimulating erogenous zones serve for
   sexual pleasure, and thus the methods do not serve for medical, for example
   therapeutic, purposes.
25
          The above-described features and functions of the present invention, and
   further aspects and features, are further described below with the aid of a detailed
   description of preferred embodiments with reference to the attached illustrations.
   3657784v1

                                                  13
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          In the figures:
 5        Fig. 1    shows a front view of a first embodiment of the stimulation device
                    according to the invention, with an appendage in a straight position;
          Fig. 2    shows a side view of the first embodiment of the stimulation device
                    according to the invention, with the appendage in an angled position;
10
          Fig. 3    shows a schematic cross section through the first embodiment of the
                    stimulation device according to the invention;
          Fig. 4    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
15                  of a first aspect of the present invention, in the first state;
          Fig. 5    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
                    of a first aspect of the present invention, in the second state;
20        Fig. 6    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
                    of a first aspect of the present invention, in the third state;
          Fig. 7    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
                    of a second aspect of the present invention;
25
          Fig. 8    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
                    of a third aspect of the present invention;
          Fig. 9    shows a cross section through a pressure field generating arrangement
30                  of a fourth aspect of the present invention;
   3657784v1

                                               14
          Figures 10 a), b) and c) show cross sections through a pressure field generating
                   arrangement of a fifth aspect of the present invention;
          Fig. 11  shows a partial cross section through a second embodiment of the
 5                 stimulation device according to the invention;
          Figures 12 a) to f) show various bottom and side views of further aspects of a
                   second chamber of the present invention;
10        Fig. 13 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention;
                   and
          Figures 14 a) to c) show graphs of various pressure modulation patterns of the
                   present invention.
15
                       DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
          With reference to Figs. 1, 2 and 3, a first embodiment will be explained below.
   Fig. 1 shows a front view of the first embodiment of the stimulation device 1
20 according to the invention, with an appendage 140 in a straight position, while Fig. 2
   further shows a side view of the stimulation device 1 with the appendage 140 in an
   angled position, and Fig. 3 shows a cross section of the first embodiment of the
   stimulation device 1 according to the invention.
25        The first embodiment of the stimulation device 1 is a preferably portable
   electrical or small device that has a housing 8, a pressure field generating
   arrangement 2, an optional on/off switch 74 and an optional light 9.
          The housing 8 preferably takes an ergonomic form such that it can be held
30 comfortably in one hand and has no sharp or pointed edges. Furthermore, the
   housing 8 may be made of a plastics material such as polycarbonate (PC) or
   3657784v1

                                              15
   acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS). Moreover, the gripping areas or even the
   entire housing may be supplemented by or be made of a silicone which has
   advantageous tactile properties. The housing 8 preferably takes an at least water
   resistant or splash-proof form, for example protection class IP 24. Furthermore, the
 5 broken line in Fig. 2 indicates an optional side edge of the housing 8.
          The optional on/off switch 74 serves to activate and deactivate the stimulation
   device 1. This on/off switch 74 may for example be a push button, which switches
   the stimulation device 1 on or off when held down, or a latching slide switch.
10 Alternatively, it may be possible to switch the stimulation device 1 on and off by
   remote control.
          The pressure field generating arrangement 2 of a first embodiment has a first
   chamber 3 in the interior of stimulation device 1, a second chamber 4 for placing on
15 a body part 11 to be stimulated, and a connection element 5 that connects the first
   chamber 3 to the second chamber 4.
          A drive unit 6, for example an electric motor, drives the first chamber 3 via a
   shaft 61 and by means of a cam 62 (or alternatively by means of a connecting rod)
20 such that the volume of the first chamber 3 changes in accordance with rotation of
   the shaft 61 of the drive unit 6. On this point, it should be noted that any types of
   drive that cause a deflection of the wall 31 of the first chamber 3 for a change in
   volume can in principle be used in the stimulation device 1. This may for example be
   performed     hydraulically,   pneumatically,    piezoelectrically,  mechanically    or
25 electromagnetically. Examples of this are described in more detail below.
          A control device 7 activates the drive unit 6, optional operating elements 71
   and at least one optional display 72. Here, the control device 7 and the drive unit 6
   are supplied with power for example by the internal battery 76 and/or the external
30 power supply 73.
   3657784v1

                                              16
          The stimulation device 1 further has at least one appendage 140. This
   appendage 140, which is preferably part of the housing 8, may optionally be moved
   or angled in relation to the housing part in which the pressure field generating
   arrangement 2 is accommodated. Here, the appendage may be angled or indeed
 5 rotated by means of a joint 141. The joint 141 may for example take the form of a
   plastically deformable plastic part, an adjustable joint or a hinge. Fig. 2 shows an
   example of a position of the appendage 140 which is angled in relation to the section
   of the housing 8 of the stimulation device 1 in which the pressure field generating
   arrangement 2 is accommodated. Alternatively, the appendage may also take a rigid
10 or immovable form.
          The appendage 140 is preferably a stimulation aid for insertion into the human
   body, for example the vagina or other bodily orifices. Here, the appendage 140 is
   shaped for example as a conventional dildo. Alternatively, the appendage may be
15 constructed such that it is adapted to the human anatomy of another bodily orifice,
   for example the mouth. Moreover, the appendage 140 may take a form such that it
   can also be used as a handle in order to hold the stimulation device 1 comfortably.
          Moreover, the appendage 140 may optionally have a vibration device 142 that
20 can be capable of being switched on and/or controlled. The vibration device 142
   causes the appendage to undergo mechanical vibrations that support the direct
   stimulation effect of the appendage 140.
          Optionally, the appendage 140 is mounted on the section of the housing 8 that
25 accommodates the pressure field generating arrangement 2 such that the (entire)
   housing 8 of the stimulation device 1 takes a unitary form. In this way, the housing 8
   creates the impression of being in one piece, for example by means of flexible and/or
   seamless connection elements of the housing 8. Alternatively, the housing 8,
   including the appendage 140, may have a silicone coating.
30
   3657784v1

                                               17
          In a straight or non-angled orientation of the appendage 140, as shown in Fig.
    1, the stimulation device 1 can be comfortably held, or indeed inserted into bodily
   orifices in a simple manner. If the appendage 140 is angled, as shown in Fig. 2, for
   example after insertion, the opening 42 can thus be guided out of the body part 11 to
 5 be stimulated. In this angled position of the stimulation device 1, both a direct and an
   indirect stimulation of at least one erogenous zone of the body can take place
   simultaneously. In this case, the body part 11 to be stimulated is located between the
   appendage 140 and the pressure field generating arrangement 2.
10        Furthermore, an optional light 9 can be provided on or in the housing 8. Here,
   the light 9 preferably serves for lighting the interior of the second chamber 4. The
   light 9 can either be switched on by the user or automatically activated when the
   stimulation device 1 is activated. Furthermore, the light 9 can take the form of
   energy-saving light emitting diodes. The light can for example serve in the dark as an
15 orientation aid for the user of the stimulation device 1, or as additional visual
   stimulation.
          With reference to Figures 4, 5 and 6, the construction and function of a first
   aspect of the pressure field generating arrangement 2 of the stimulation device 1 will
20 be described below in more detail.
          Fig. 4 shows the pressure field generating arrangement 2 in a first state, with
   the second chamber 4 placed on the area of skin or body part 11 to be stimulated.
   The first state of the pressure field generating arrangement 2 is characterized by a
25 neutral deflection of the first chamber 3, i.e. no external force acts on the first
   chamber 3, for example from the drive unit. Here, the volume VI of the first
   chamber is the standard volume of this chamber 3.
          The body part 11 to be stimulated is an area of skin on the body, wherein here
30 for example a particularly sensitive erogenous zone, the clitoris 12, is shown. Thus,
   use of the present invention is not limited to the female clitoris 11, however; rather,
   3657784v1

                                               18
   the stimulation device 1 can be applied to all body parts or erogenous zones (such as
   the inside of the thighs, lumbar region, nape of the neck, nipples, etc.) which can be
   stimulated by means of medium- or air-pressure massage and/or negative pressure.
 5        Because it is placed on the body part 11 to be stimulated, the second chamber 4
   forms a chamber that is largely or completely closed off from the exterior of the
   pressure field generating arrangement 2 and whereof the only remaining connection
   to the second chamber is via the connection element 5, wherein the edges of
   chamber 4 ideally form an air-tight enclosure with the surface of the body part 11.
10 Two communicating chambers 3 and 4 are created in this way, wherein a
   corresponding pressure equalization between the chambers 3 and 4 via the
   connection element 5 occurs in the event of a change in volume in one of the
   chambers 3 or 4.
15        A wall 31 of the first chamber 3 is secured by means of a holder 32. The
   holder 32 is in turn attached to the housing 8. The wall 41 of the second chamber is
   furthermore mounted on the holder 32. Two mutually aligned openings in the wall 41
   of the second chamber and the holder 32 together form the connection element 5,
   which connects the first chamber 3 and the second chamber 4. In this arrangement,
20 the wall 31, the holder 32 and the wall 41 are preferably joined to each other by
   adhesion to be medium- or air-tight. Alternatively, they can also be press-fitted or
   screwed to each other (for example with the aid of sealing areas between the
   housing 8 and the respective part). The holder 32 can also be joined to the housing 8
   for example by adhesion or screws.
25
          The wall 31 of the first chamber 3 is preferably made of a flexible medium- or
   air-tight material such as rubber. The holder 32 is preferably made of a rigid plastics
   material which is likewise medium- or air-tight. The wall 41 of the second chamber
   is preferably made of a flexible, skin-friendly material such as silicone or rubber.
30
   3657784v1

                                              19
          Fig. 5 shows the pressure field generating arrangement 2 of Fig. 4 in a second
   state, wherein the second chamber 4 is once again placed on the body part 11 to be
   stimulated. The second state is characterized in that a force A acting on the first
   chamber 3 causes the chamber 3 to expand. To be precise, in this exemplary
 5 embodiment the force A draws the wall 31 of the first chamber 3 in a direction away
   from the second chamber 4.
          This increases the volume V2 in the chamber 3, i.e. V2 > VI. To equalize the
   difference in pressure created between the chambers 3 and 4, the medium or air now
10 flows from the second chamber 4 into the first chamber 3.
          Assuming that in the first state the pressure in the chambers 3 and 4
   corresponds to the currently prevailing external reference pressure (air pressure for
   example), the overall pressure that is present in the second state will be lower than
15 the external reference pressure. This negative pressure is set such that it is preferably
   lower than the usual systolic blood pressure in the blood vessels of the body part 11.
   The blood circulation in this area thus increases, and the clitoris 12 is better supplied
   with blood in the second state.
20        Fig. 6 shows the pressure field generating arrangement 2 in a third state,
   wherein the second chamber 4 is once again placed on the body part 11 to be
   stimulated. The third state is characterized in that a force B acting on the first
   chamber 3 causes a volume reduction or compression in the chamber 3. To be
   precise, the direction of the force B is opposed to the direction of the force A and
25 deforms the wall 31 of the first chamber such that the resulting volume V3 of the
   chamber is smaller than the volume VI. The compression of the chamber 3 causes a
   positive pressure in the chamber 3, which is equalized by a medium or air flow
   through the connection element 5 in the direction of the second chamber 4.
30        This flow of medium is now preferably directed, by the orientation of the
   opening 51 and/or of the connection element 5, towards the body part 11 to be
   3657784v1

                                                20
   stimulated, in particular towards the glans of the clitoris 12. The indirect (pressure)
   massage according to the invention occurs as a result of the medium flowing onto the
   body part 11. The size of the opening 51 is in this case dimensioned such that it is
   small enough in relation to the volume displaced in the first chamber 3 to sufficiently
 5 accelerate the medium for a perceptible massaging effect.
          Furthermore, the type of flow can not only be advantageously influenced by
   the size and orientation of the opening 51 but also by the inner configuration of the
   connection element. For example, helical grooves in the connection element 5 can
10 cause the flow according to the invention to swirl, wherein the flow profile develops
   a "softer" or more turbulent action on the body part to be stimulated. Alternatively,
   the pressure field produced in the second chamber 4 can be adjusted to suit the
   application by means of a plurality of openings 51.
15        The advantage of the arrangement shown in Figures 4 to 6 is that it is
   unproblematic from the point of view of hygiene (because dead spaces are avoided,
   for example) and is simple to manufacture. For example, no valves or further
   openings in or on the first chamber 3 are required.
20        Fig. 7 shows a second aspect of the present invention with an alternative
   construction of the pressure field generating arrangement 2. Here, the walls 31
   and 41 of the first and second chambers 3 and 4 can engage with one another such
   that, as in the first aspect of construction of the pressure field generating arrangement
   2, they form two communicating chambers with a connection element 5. Thus, a
25 separate holder is not required, while the second chamber 4 is replaceable. Moreover,
   the connection element 5 can take a form integral or in one piece with the wall 41 of
   the second chamber 4. A replaceable chamber 4 has the advantage that in this way
   various shapes of the chamber 4 that are adjusted to the respective body part can be
   used (a more detailed description thereof is provided below) without the need to
30 replace the entire stimulation device 1. Alternatively, the second chamber 4 can also
   be attached to the housing 8 by being pushed on (not shown in more detail). The
   3657784v1

                                               21
   wall 31 of the first chamber 3 can be joined to the housing 8 by adhesion or screws
   for example.
          It is also possible, as shown in more detail in Fig. 7 by the broken line and the
 5 double arrow C, for the first chamber 3 to be expanded and compressed by a force
   acting perpendicularly to the axial direction of the connection element 5. In principle,
   the force exerted indirectly or directly on the first chamber 3 by the drive unit 5 can
   be exerted from any direction. The only decisive criterion here is that the volume of
   the first chamber 3 can be increased and decreased by the drive unit 6.
10
          Fig. 8 shows a third aspect of the invention with a one-piece structure of the
   pressure field generating arrangement 2. Here, a resilient material such as silicone or
   rubber can be used as material for the chambers 3 and 4. The advantage here is that
   any gaps that are dubious from the point of view of hygiene are avoided, and the cost
15 of manufacture is reduced. The pressure field generating arrangement 2 can be joined
   to the housing 8 by adhesion or screws in this case too. A change in the volume of
   the first chamber 3 occurs here in a manner analogous to that described in
   conjunction with Fig. 7.
20        Fig. 9 shows a fourth aspect of the invention with an alternative construction of
   the pressure field generating arrangement 2. Here, the second chamber 4, a plurality
   of connection elements 5, and partial sections of the wall 31 of the first chamber 3
   are   constructed    in   one piece.   Alternatively,  the   pressure  field generating
   arrangement 2 can also be constructed in two or more pieces from individual
25 components, while retaining the geometric shape of Fig. 9, in a similar way to that
   shown in Fig. 4 or 7.
          In this case, the volume in the chamber 3 is changed in a manner similar to a
   piston pump, although there are no valves of any kind here. Thus, a piston 63 is
30 moved back and forth by the drive unit, for example an electric motor or
   electromagnet, in the directions of the double arrow D. This type of drive has the
   3657784v1

                                              22
   advantage that the volume of the first chamber 3 can be reduced to zero or
   approximately zero in a simple manner, thus allowing the first chamber 3 to be
   almost completely emptied.
 5        The embodiment of the connection element 5, with a plurality of channels 52
   and openings 51, results in a distribution of the pressure field over a plurality of
   concentration points. While the embodiment of the connection element 5 with only
   one channel, as described in conjunction with Fig. 6, results in the formation of a
   highly concentrated medium or air flow onto a target area, the embodiment of the
10 connection element 5 shown in Fig. 9 allows the medium or air flow to be distributed
   over a plurality of target areas. In this way, the flow can for example be blown
   against the clitoris 11 not just on its glans, but evenly from a plurality of sides.
   Depending on the application, this distribution of the air flow concentration to a
   plurality of areas can help to avoid overstimulation and/or help to increase the
15 stimulation area.
          Figures 10a to 10c show a fifth aspect of the invention with (partial) cross
   sections of a construction of the pressure field generating arrangement 2 with a
   bending element 64 as the drive for changing the volume in the first chamber 3. The
20 bending element 64 can for example be a conventional piezoelectric bending
   element, which is deformed or bent once a voltage is applied. In this aspect of the
   invention, the wall 31 of the first chamber 3 takes a rigid or stiff form, while the
   bending element 64 is made to fit suitably against the sides of the first chamber 3.
   The transition points between the bending element 64 and the wall 31 are in this case
25 sealed (resiliently joined by adhesion, for example). In this construction, the drive for
   the pressure field generating arrangement 2 is already integrated therein, and an
   external drive is not required. An electric motor with a cam is not needed, for
   example. This allows, inter alia, the reduction of any disruptive natural resonances
   due to movement of the cam of the stimulation device.
30
   3657784v1

                                              23
          Fig. 10a shows in detail the pressure field generating arrangement 2 with the
   bending element 64 in a neutral position. Thus, the volume of the first chamber 3
   with the bending element 64 in the neutral position is the standard volume. Fig. 10b
   furthermore shows the first chamber 3 with an excited and, consequently, outwardly
 5 bent bending element, for which reason the volume of the first chamber 3 has
   increased; consequently, a negative pressure prevails in the pressure field generating
   arrangement 2. Fig. 10c shows a bending element of the first chamber 3 excited in
   the opposite direction to Fig. 10b, for which reason the volume of the first chamber 3
   has decreased; consequently, a positive pressure prevails in the pressure field
10 generating arrangement 2.
          Fig. 11 shows a second embodiment of the invention with a spatially separated
   arrangement of the chambers 3 and 4 of the pressure field generating arrangement 2.
   The chambers 3 and 4 are in this case connected via an extended connection
15 element 5, which can be a relatively long flexible hose or a pipe, which may also be
   rigid. For example, the connection element 5 may be 0.5 m in length. This enables
   the housing 8 to be held in one hand while the other hand holds the second
   chamber 4 on the body part 11 to be stimulated; or the housing 8 may simply be laid
   aside, while the user holds only the second chamber 4 in both hands. Alternatively,
20 the appendage 140 can be inserted into a body part, in which case it is no longer
   necessary for the stimulation device 1 to be held in the hand.
   Figures 12 a) to 12 f) show various bottom and side views of further aspects of the
   second chamber 4 of the present invention. In detail, Fig. 12 a) shows a bottom view
25 of a circular second chamber 4 with a central opening 51; Fig. 12 b) shows a bottom
   view of a triangular second chamber 4 with a central opening 51; Fig. 12 c) shows a
   bottom view of an oval second chamber 4 with a central opening 51; and Fig. 12 d)
   shows a bottom view of an approximately eight-shaped second chamber 4 with two
   openings 51 arranged offset from the center. Fig. 12 e) furthermore shows a side
30 cross section of a second chamber 4 according to the invention, wherein the second
   chamber 4 additionally has an extended contact surface 43 for the skin or a support
   3657784v1

                                               24
   part 43 to improve the sealing function of the second chamber 4 on the skin. The
   extended contact surface 43 may moreover have grooves or projections that improve
   the sealing function even further. Fig. 12 f) shows a side cross section of a second
   chamber 4 having a plurality of separate connection elements 5 and an extended
 5 contact surface resulting from the support part 43.
          The shape of the second chamber 4 can thus be fundamentally adjusted to the
   anatomy of the erogenous zone to be stimulated. The shape of the chamber 4 in Fig.
    12 a) is, for example, adjusted to the round shape of the breast, while the shape of
10 chamber 4 in Fig. 12 c) is better suited to the shape of the female vulva. Furthermore,
   the shape of the second chamber 4 also determines how pronounced the pressure
   field according to the invention is. The size of the second chamber 4 in relation to the
   volume displaced from the first chamber 3 thus determines the level of the
   achievable negative or positive pressure. Furthermore, the proximity of the
15 opening 51 of the connection element 5 to the area of skin to be stimulated can also
   be used to determine the intensity of the massaging effect according to the invention
   on said area of skin. A plurality of openings 51, cf. Fig. 12 d), allows the massaging
   effect to be distributed over a plurality of areas. Thus, for example, the clitoris can be
   stimulated less directly at the very sensitive clitoral glans (cf. Fig. 12 e)) but more at
20 the areas surrounding the clitoral glans, in order to prevent overstimulation of the
   clitoris.
          Fig. 13 shows a block diagram of an example of the functional construction of
   an embodiment of the present invention, having a control device 7, a drive unit 6, a
25 light 9, an on/off switch 74, operating elements 71, a battery 76 and an external
   power supply 73.
          The control device 7, which for example has a microcontroller or is hardwired,
   initially controls the power supply to all the consumers of the stimulation device 1
30 and optionally controls a process of charging and discharging the battery 76 and/or
   3657784v1

                                                25
   battery management. In particular, the control device 7 controls the excitation of the
   drive unit 6, such as the size of the deflection, the frequency, the modulation, etc.
           Optionally provided operating elements 71 serve to set the mode of the device,
 5 i.e. to set the modulation pattern of the pressure field. The operating elements 71 may
   for example take the form of at least one push button, at least one rotary switch, or at
   least one touch-sensitive switch. Furthermore, the operating elements 71 may emit
   optical feedback for the purpose of confirmation, for example by means of light
   emitting diodes (LEDs) integrated in the switch.
10
          An optional display 72 serves to inform the user of the device state and/or the
   set condition. The display 72 may for example take the form of a plurality of light
   emitting diodes or an LCD display. The displayed information may for example be
   the charging condition of an optional battery, or the current setting of the modulation
15 pattern.
           Furthermore, the control device 7 may have a memory in which at least one
   modulation or stimulation pattern (described in more detail in conjunction with Figs.
    14 a) to c)) is stored. Excitation of the drive unit 6 can now be activated via the
20 operating elements 71 in accordance with this previously stored stimulation pattern,
   depending on the choice made by the user of the stimulation device 1. The
   stimulation pattern of the pressure field can also be optionally and individually
   generated and stored by the user via the operating elements.
25        A socket (not shown in detail) can serve to supply external power to the
   stimulation device 1 via an external plug that is for example connected to an external
   mains adapter. In order to ensure that the stimulation device 1 is splash-proof, it is
   also possible, instead of the socket, to provide an electromagnetically inductive
   transformer that allows power to be supplied to the stimulation device 1 without an
30 electrically conductive contact. Preferably, the stimulation device 1 moreover has a
   battery, for example a nickel metal hydride battery (NiMH), for wireless operation.
   3657784v1

                                               26
   Alternatively, a (relatively long) power supply cable may lead out of the stimulation
   device.
          Fig. 14 a) shows the sequence over time of overall pressure p in the pressure
 5 field generating arrangement (2) when the latter is used for stimulation. The broken
   line indicates     the  reference  pressure,   for example the      currently   prevailing
   atmospheric pressure, outside the pressure field generating arrangement (2). If the
   second chamber 4 is now placed on the body part 11 to be stimulated, the initially
   prevailing ambient pressure remains approximately constant in the pressure field
10 generating arrangement (2). It is assumed that the second chamber 4 is placed on the
   body part to be stimulated such that it is largely air-tight. Once the stimulation device
   is activated, the drive unit 6 is activated or excited by the control device 7 in
   accordance with a previously stored stimulation pattern. Accordingly, the volume of
   the first chamber 3 and thus the overall pressure in the pressure field generating
15 arrangement 2 are changed, with the changes in pressure being modulated onto the
   reference pressure. The pressure or stimulation pattern shown as an example in Fig.
    14 a) develops a pulsed, regular pressure field. In phases of pressure increase, air is
   blown against or massages the erogenous zone to be stimulated, whereas at times
   when a negative pressure prevails the blood circulation in the body part 11, for
20 example the clitoris, is favored. Thus, there are time periods according to the
   invention (designated in Fig. 14 a) as I)) in which a negative pressure prevails while
   the clitoris is simultaneously being indirectly massaged.
          Fig. 14 b) shows three examples of alternative stimulation patterns. Thus, the
25 area designated as II) shows a pulsed stimulation pattern of high amplitude. The area
   designated as III) shows a pulsed stimulation pattern of low amplitude. Furthermore,
   the area designated as IV) illustrates a stimulation pattern which is irregular as
   regards sequence over time and asymmetrical in amplitude. The patterns can be
   varied, depending on the effect on the body/application and in accordance with the
30 wishes of the individual.
   3657784v1

                                               27
          Fig. 14 c) shows a further example of an alternative stimulation pattern. Here,
   the intensity of the pressure may increase with time in order to adjust to the user's
   state of excitement.
 5        In addition to the embodiments that have been explained, the invention allows
   for further constructional principles. For example, different arrangements             or
   constructions of the first chamber 3 may be combined as desired with different
   embodiments of the second chamber 5 or the connection element 5. For example, the
   first chamber 3 having the drive in Figures 10 can be combined with the second
10 chamber in Fig. 12 f).
          Although only one first chamber 3 is shown in all embodiments, two or more
   first chambers 3 may also be provided, which are then driven accordingly
   simultaneously or with a time delay such that their volume is changed in order to
15 build up a pressure field according to the invention.
          Although only one opening from the first chamber 3 to the connection
   element 5 is shown in all embodiments, a plurality of openings for a connection
   element 5 or indeed a plurality of openings for a plurality of connection elements 5
20 may also be provided in the first chamber 3.
          A stimulation device 1 can have a plurality of pressure field generating
   arrangements 2. Thus, for example, two pressure field generating arrangements may
   be provided in order to stimulate two erogenous zones simultaneously.
25
          The stimulation patterns according to the invention can differ from the patterns
   shows in Figures 14 a), b) and c), provided they have a sequence of positive and
   negative pressures over time. For example, a relatively long-lasting negative pressure
   can initially be built up at the beginning or after activation of the device (for example
30 3 minutes), in order to effectively increase the blood circulation in the zone to be
   3657784v1

                                             28
   stimulated, after which pulses of negative and positive pressures of slowly increasing
   amplitude follow.
          In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
 5 similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
   method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements
   solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
10 taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
   of the common general knowledge.
          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
   2015386680.     The full disclosure of AU 2015386680 is incorporated herein by
15 reference.
   3657784v1

                                               29
          List of reference numerals:
               1    Stimulation device
               2    Pressure field generating arrangement
 5             3    First chamber
               4    Second chamber
               5    Connection element
               6    Drive unit
               7    Control device
10             8    Housing
               9    Light
               11   Body part
               12   Clitoris
               31   Wall of the first chamber
15             32 Holder
               41 Wall of the second chamber
               42 Opening of the first chamber
               43   Contact surface
               51   Opening from the connection element to the second chamber
20             61   Drive shaft
               62   Cam
               63 Piston
               64 Bending element
               71   Operating element
25             72 Display
               73 Power supply
               74   On/off switch
               76 Battery
               77   Control board
30             140 Appendage
               141 Joint
   3657784v1

                               30
          142 Vibration device
3657784v1

                                             31
                                          Claims
 1.   A stimulation device, comprising:
a chamber having a flexible wall portion;
a drive unit in physical communication with the flexible wall portion so as to cause
      deflections of the flexible wall portion in opposing directions, thereby resulting in
      a changing volume of the chamber,
the changing volume of the chamber resulting in modulated positive and negative
      pressures with respect to a reference pressure;
an opening for applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part;
a control device for controlling the drive unit; and
an appendage, wherein the appendage is a dildo configured to be inserted into a vagina.
2.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the appendage is a handle
      for holding the stimulation device.
3.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the opening is further for
      placing over the body part.
4.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the body part is a clitoris.
5.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a second
      chamber.
6.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the flexible wall portion is
      integral with the chamber.
7.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the flexible wall portion
      comprises silicone.
8.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulation device has
      no valves.

                                          32
9.  The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulation device is a
    portable hand-held device.
10. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulation device is
    battery powered.
11. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, further comprising:
    a water resistant housing comprising acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS).
12. A method comprising:
    causing deflections of a flexible wall portion of a chamber of a stimulation device
    in opposing directions, thereby resulting in a changing volume of the chamber,
    the changing volume of the chamber resulting in modulated positive and negative
    pressures with respect to a reference pressure; and
    applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part through an
    opening, wherein the stimulation device is positioned by a user for applying the
    modulated positive and negative pressures using an appendage of the stimulation
    device, wherein the appendage is a dildo configured to be inserted into a vagina.
13. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the appendage is a handle for holding
    the stimulation device.
14. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the changing volume of the chamber
    results in the modulated positive and negative pressures in a second chamber.
15. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the body part is a clitoris and the
    opening is placed over the clitoris.
16. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the flexible wall portion is integral
    with the chamber.

                                           33
17. A stimulation device, comprising:
    a pressure field generator having a flexible wall portion;
    a drive unit in physical communication with the flexible wall portion so as to
    cause deflections of the flexible wall portion in opposing directions, thereby
    resulting in a changing volume of the pressure field generator,
    the changing volume of the pressure field generator resulting in modulated
    positive and negative pressures with respect to a reference pressure;
    an opening for applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body
    part;
    a control device for controlling the drive unit; and
    an appendage, wherein the appendage is a dildo configured to be inserted into a
    vagina.
18. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the appendage is a handle
    for holding the stimulation device.
19. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the body part is a clitoris
    and the opening is further for placing over the body part.
20. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the body part is a clitoris.
21. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the pressure field generator
    comprises a first chamber and a second chamber.
22. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the flexible wall portion is
    integral with the pressure field generator.
23. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the stimulation device has
    no valves.
24. The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the stimulation device is a
    portable hand-held device.

                                             34
25.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 17, wherein the stimulation device is
      battery powered.
26.   A method comprising:
causing deflections of a flexible wall portion of a pressure field generator of a
      stimulation device in opposing directions, thereby resulting in a changing volume
      of the pressure field generator,
the changing volume of the pressure field generator resulting in modulated positive and
      negative pressures with respect to a reference pressure; and
applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part through an
      opening, wherein the stimulation device is positioned by a user for applying the
      modulated positive and negative pressures using an appendage of the stimulation
      device, wherein the appendage is a dildo configured to be inserted into a vagina.
27.   The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the appendage is a handle for holding
      the stimulation device.
28.   The method as recited in claim 26, wherein causing deflections in a flexible wall
      portion of a pressure field generator in opposing directions comprises:
causing deflections in the flexible wall portion of a first chamber of the pressure field
      generator, thereby resulting in the modulated positive and negative pressures in a
      second chamber of the pressure field generator.
29.   The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the body part is a clitoris and the
      opening is placed over the clitoris.
30.   The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the flexible wall portion is integral
      with the pressure field generator.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      &sO<U+0358> <U+03EE>
      <U+03ED>              <U+03ED><U+03F0><U+03ED>
<U+03ED><U+03F0><U+03EC>
                                                <U+03EE><U+036C><U+03F3>
          <U+03F0><U+03ED>

      <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                              &sO<U+0358> <U+03EF>
          <U+03F3><U+03F0>   <U+03F2><U+03ED>
                         <U+03EF>
                                        <U+03EF><U+036C><U+03F3>
<U+03ED><U+03F0><U+03EE>

                        <U+03F0><U+036C><U+03F3>
              &sO<U+0358><U+03F0>
<removed-date>
                              
                              <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                              <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                              <U+03F0><U+03EE>
<removed-apn>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03F1>
                              <U+03ED><U+03ED>
                              <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                              <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                              <U+03F0><U+03EE>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03F2>
                              <U+03ED><U+03ED>
                              <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                              <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                              <U+03F0><U+03EE>

                        <U+03F1><U+036C><U+03F3>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03F3>
<removed-date>
                                  
                                  <U+03F0><U+03EE>
                                  <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                                  <U+03F0><U+03ED>
<removed-apn>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03F4>
                                  <U+03ED><U+03ED>
                                  <U+03F0><U+03EE>
                                  <U+03ED><U+03EE>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03F5>   <U+03F1><U+03EE>   <U+03F1>
                                  <U+03ED><U+03ED>
                                  <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                                  <U+03F0>
                                  <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                                  <U+03F1><U+03ED>

                                                      <U+03F2><U+036C><U+03F3>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EC>A                         &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EC>d       &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EC>
<removed-date>
                               /LQLQ <U+03F1>                      <U+03F1>          6XQ       <U+03F1>
                          <U+03F2><U+03F0>                                      <U+03F2><U+03F0>
                               Yh <U+018C><U+0394>    <U+03EF>                   <U+03EF>                    <U+03EF>
                                   <U+03EF><U+03ED>                                       <U+03EF><U+03ED>
<removed-apn>
                                            <U+03F4>
                                                                                     <U+03F0>
                                                                                     <U+03F0><U+03EE>
                                                                                     <U+03F0><U+03EF>
                                                                <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                                                                 &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EE>
                                                                                     <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                                                                                         <U+03F1><U+03ED>
                                                                                         <U+03F0>
                &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EE>E                       &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EE>G        &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EE>I
                                                                     <U+03F1>
                                                                                         <U+03F0><U+03ED>
                                                                                         <U+03F0><U+03EF>

                          <U+03F3><U+036C><U+03F3>
               &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03EF>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03F0>A
                                ZGIG<U+018C>GYG
                                <U+018C>G<U+0190><U+0190><U+01B5><U+018C>G
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03F0>d
              &sO<U+0358> <U+03ED><U+03F0>
                                ZGIG<U+018C>GYG
                                <U+018C>G<U+0190><U+0190><U+01B5><U+018C>G

