                                    ABSTRACT
The present invention herein provides a method for diagnosing and treating pelvic
organ prolapse (POP) or pelvic floor weakness in a patient comprising the steps of:
(a) inserting into the patient's vagina a device comprising a plurality of
microelectromechanical accelerometers positioned along a length of the device; (b)
displaying on a graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during relaxation of the patient's pelvic
floor musculature and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface; and
(c) displaying on the graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during performance by the patient of a
pelvic floor exercise and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface;
wherein a caudal movement in the position of the patient's vagina during the
performance of the pelvic floor exercise displayed in step (c) relative to the position
of the patient's vagina during relaxation of the patient's pelvic floor musculature in
step (b) indicates POP or pelvic floor weakness in the patient.

 WO 2013/116310                                                             PCT/US2013/023806
                                               1
                    TREATMENT OF PELVIC ORGAN PROLAPSE
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0001] The present invention relates to the diagnosis and treatment of pelvic
 organ prolapse and related conditions. The diagnosis and treatment may involve the use
 of a multiple sensor-enabled device for vaginal insertion capable of providing real-time
 data regarding the patient's physiology, the position and movement of the urethra, and
 the muscular strength of the patient's vagina and pelvic floor.
       [0002] Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) generally relates to a condition where the
muscles and ligaments supporting a woman's pelvic organs weaken thereby causing the
pelvic organs to slip out of place (prolapse). There are different types of POP, including
vaginal vault prolapse, bladder prolapse, rectal prolapse, uterine prolapse, and small
bowel prolapse. Some women develop vaginal prolapse, usually after menopause,
childbirth or a hysterectomy.
        [0003] In certain cases, POP occurs due to the damage of the tissues that
support the intra-abdominal contents causing the contents of the abdominal cavity to
spill through the weakest support points and extrude through the vaginal walls. This
weakness can be at the bladder area, the uterine area or the rectal/enterocele area. The
condition can worsen over time, and the patient may need corrective surgery.
        [0004] Information regarding the anatomical areas of weakness suspected as
contributing to the condition as well as the primary area of weakness can facilitate
appropriate corrective surgery at an early stage and in a targeted fashion to repair the
herniated abdominal contents through the pelvic floor area. In addition, specially
designed patches, for example, could be used to prevent further prolapse.
        [0005] Presently, there is no available test that can accurately diagnose POP by
localizing and evaluating the herniated areas suspected of giving rise to a patient's POP.
The types of diagnostic tests commonly relied upon today include the cotton swab test
(where the health care provider inserts a small, cotton-tipped applicator lubricated with
anesthetic gel into the patient's urethra, the patient is asked to strain, and the applicator
may indicate a loss of support to the urethra); the bladder function test (to measure the
ability of the patient's bladder to store and empty urine, which might aid the health care

  WO 2013/116310                                                         PCT/US2013/023806
                                              2
provider to determine the most appropriate type of surgery for bladder or urethral
prolapse); pelvic floor strength tests (where the health care provider relies upon personal
experience to approximate the strength of the patient's pelvic floor and sphincter
muscles, and possibly, the strength of muscles and ligaments that support the patient's
vaginal walls, uterus, rectum, urethra and bladder); and imaging tests (which include
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to obtain a three- dimensional image of the pelvis;
ultrasound to visualize the patient's kidneys, bladder or the muscles around the
patient's anus; cystoscopy to evaluate symptoms of urinary urgency, frequency,
bladder pain or blood in the urine by insertion of a thin tube with a light and camera on
the tip (cytoscope) into the patient's urethra to view the urethra and bladder. None of
these techniques, however, alone or collectively, can provide the positional and
pressure data to yield as detailed and accurate POP diagnosis as possible through the
instant invention.
          [0006] Furthermore, there is evidence that pelvic floor training can strengthen
 the pelvic floor muscles to remedy or otherwise alleviate urinary incontinence (UI)
 and POP, and thereby avoid surgery. Present methods for pelvic floor training,
 however, do not offer a way for the health care provider or the patient to measure
 improvement, confirm that such exercises are being performed correctly, or to
 accurately monitor the amount of time the patient is doing the exercises and amount
 of exertion the patient is using in order to improve or prevent UI or POP.
         [0007] The multiple sensor-enabled device disclosed here can assist the health
 care provider and the patient to assess whether the patient is properly performing
 Kegel exercises and otherwise achieving the therapeutic goals.
         [0008] Physical therapists today employ certain electronic devices to help the
 patient perform Kegel exercises. In these cases, a vaginal insert with sensors may be
 viewed as electrical impulses on a screen. But these devices cannot reflect what
 muscles the patient is contracting, indicate whether the patient is contracting the
 appropriate muscles, or monitor the patient's progress. Essentially, the only
 information readout is a tracing that reflects the discharge of electrical stimuli, but
 which offers no assurance to the health care provider or patient that the needed

 WO 2013/116310                                                           PCT/US2013/023806
                                              3
 strengthening of the pelvic floor muscles is occurring. Electrical stimulation might
 provide temporary relief of UI if the electrical impulses happen to be engaged and
 placed correctly. However, because it is difficult, if not impossible, to know the
 amount of electrical discharge needed and the correct positioning, these methods do
 not work effectively or long-term. The electrical stimulation might allow the patient
 to recognize their own muscles, but falls short of facilitating the strengthening of the
 patient's muscles to result in an improvement, because the patient must also contract
 the particular muscles properly.
          [0009] The multiple sensor-enabled device of the instant invention would allow
 the health care provider and the patient to visualize whether the patient is actually doing
 the pelvic floor exercises correctly. Moreover, educating the patient on the correct way
 of using the device would allow the patient to take the device with her, and in the
 privacy of her home, visualize her exercise regimen through a convenient display, such as
 a computer or smart phone application. The patient may also benefit from inserting,
 removing and cleaning the device at her convenience. Furthermore, the patient can
 monitor and record her progress and send her information back to the health care
 provider to assure her compliance. The convenience and privacy of home training and
 progress monitoring can enhance patient compliance with the therapeutic regimen, and
 facilitate a more efficient achievement of therapeutic goals.
                     BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           [0010] The present invention relates to the diagnosis and treatment of pelvic
 organ prolapse (POP). In an embodiment of the invention, this diagnosis and treatment
 involves the use of a multiple sensor-enabled device for vaginal insertion capable of
 providing real-time data regarding the patient's physiology, the position and movement
 of the urethra, and the muscular strength of the patient's vagina and pelvic floor. In one
 embodiment, the device may be inflatable.
         [0011] The multiple sensor-enabled device may include at least one sensor
capable of providing real-time data of one or more types selected from the group
consisting of position, movement, pressure, and flow. In this regard, a sensor may have a
single measurement and reporting capability, or may have multiple measurement and
reporting capabilities.

 WO 2013/116310                                                          PCT/US2013/023806
                                             4
         [0012] The present invention also includes a method for the diagnosis or
 treatment of urinary incontinence (UI) or POP comprising providing a multiple sensor
 enabled device in a patient and determining the anatomical state of the patient capable of
 relieving the incontinence. The device can indicate the position of the patient's urethra
 and vagina, and allow the health care provider or patient to visualize the relative
 movement of these anatomical organs, and thus, show the patient whether her efforts at
 performing Kegel exercises are being performed correctly.
        [0013] Often, the proper performance of Kegel exercises is difficult to explain
and difficult for the patient to understand how to achieve. If the patient misunderstands
how to perform such exercises, she can perform them wrong, usually by performing a
valsalva maneuver and consequently causing more damage to the pelvic floor by
causing the abdominal contents to be pushed down through the pelvic floor.
          [0014] The multiple sensor-enabled device of the present invention would also
 enable the health care provider and patient to view quantitatively what vaginal
 pressure is being exerted by the patient at any time, to recognize the vaginal muscular
 strength, and to facilitate the patient's performance of muscular exercises in a precise
 manner. The position and pressure of the posterior vaginal wall as well as that of the
 lower intestines and rectal area can be determined using the device.
         [0015] In an embodiment of the present invention, where the device includes
Inflatable components as shown in Figure 1 as an example, POP could also be
 alleviated or prevented by placing the device into the vagina and inflating each section
 from farthest to the most proximal. The most proximal inflatable section may be
inflated to prevent spillage of the vaginal contents. In this mode of operation, the
 device offers advantages over devices, such as pessaries, used today. Every month,
rather than the patient having to return to the health care provider to extract the
pessary and clean it for reinsertion, the patient would be able to withdraw the instant
 device and clean it for reinsertion in the convenience and privacy of her own home,
which may include any location outside the health care provider's office or facility.
In this regard, the device disclosed here may be used to improve a woman's vaginal
muscular strength by performing vaginal strengthening exercises (VSE) to achieve

 WO 2013/116310                                                          PCT/US2013/023806
                                               5
her desired sexual health as well as to address any UI or POP conditions.
         [0016] The present invention contemplates the real-time position and
movement tracking described in International Patent Application
PCT/US2010/053712, and the multiple sensor-enable device described in U.S.
provisional patent application Serial No. 61/563,889, which are hereby incorporated
in their entirety by reference. In this regard, the real-time position and movement
tracking may include sensing the position of the anatomical organ of interest to an
anatomical reference point, such as the patient's pubic bone, the coccyx or the vagina,
or to an external reference point, such as a target on a patient's garment or in the
patient's surroundings. The method may be performed in real-time, for example,
during a medical examination, procedure, or surgery. In another embodiment, the
method may be performed at multiple time intervals. The multiple time intervals may
occur, for example, pre- and post-event, wherein the event may be pregnancy or
menopause.
        [0017] The multiple sensor-enabled device may also provide pressure data,
which reflects muscular strength, and provide a health care provider a detailed map of
where the weakest anatomical points are for purposes of POP diagnosis and treatment.
Where vaginal strengthening exercises are inadequate to prevent or relieve UI or POP, a
surgeon would be able to use this information to target corrective procedures
appropriately.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0018] Figure 1 depicts a lateral view of an embodiment of the present invention.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          [0019] When used in the claims, the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar
 references in the context of describing the invention (especially in the context of the
 following claims) are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless
 otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. Also when used in the
 claims, the terms "comprising," "having," "including," and "containing" are to be
 construed as open- ended terms (i.e., meaning "including, but not limited to,") unless

 WO 2013/116310                                                           PCT/US2013/023806
                                              6
 otherwise noted. To the extent used, the recitation of ranges of values herein are merely
 intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value
 falling within the range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is
 incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods
 described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated
 herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or
 exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely to better
 illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention
 unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as
 indicating any non-claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.
 Variations of the embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art
 upon reading the description. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and
 equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
 applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the described elements in all possible
 variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
 otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
        [0020] For purposes of the present invention, the term "urethra" may be defined as
the canal leading from the bladder, discharging the urine externally. See STEDMAN's
MEDICAL DICTIONARY, at page 2072 ( 2 8 th ed). In females, the urethra is a canal
about 4 centimeters long passing from the bladder, in close relation with the anterior wall
of the vagina and having a long axis that parallels that of the vagina opening in the
vestibule of the vagina posterior to the clitoris and anterior to the vaginal orifice. Id. The
term "urinary bladder" refers to a musculomembranous elastic bag serving as a storage
place for the urine, filled via the ureters and drained via the urethra. Id. at page 226. The
term "bladder neck" is defined as the smooth muscle of the bladder neck is histologically,
histochemically and pharmacologically distinct from the detrusor muscle proper and so the
bladder neck should be considered as a separate functional unit. See GRAY's ANATOMY,
at page 1290 ( 3 9 th ed.). The arrangement of smooth muscle in this region is quite different
in males and females, and therefore each sex is described separately. In females, the
bladder neck consists of morphologically distinct smooth muscle. The large diameter
fasciculi characteristic of the detrusor is replaced in the region of the bladder neck by
small diameter fasciculi which extend obliquely or longitudinally into the urethral wall.

  WO 2013/116310                                                              PCT/US2013/023806
                                                7
 Id. In the normal female the bladder neck which above the pelvic floor supported
 predominantly by the pubovesical ligaments, the endopelvic fascia of the pelvic floor and
 levator ani. These support the urethra at rest; with elevated intra-abdominal pressure the
 levators contract increasing urethral closure pressure to maintain continence. This
 anatomical arrangement commonly alters after parturition and with increasing age, such
 that the bladder neck lies beneath the pelvic floor, particularly when the intra-abdominal
 pressure rises. The mechanism described above may fail to maintain continence
 (incontinence as a result of urethral hypermobility).
          [0021] As commonly understood, the term "vagina" refers to an elastic muscular
 canal that extends from the cervix to the vulva. Although there is wide anatomical
 variation, the length ofthe unaroused vagina of a woman of child-bearing age is
 approximately 6 to 7.5 cm (2.5 to 3 inches) across the anterior wall (front), and 9 cm (3.5
 inches) long across the posterior wall (rear). The vagina connects the superficial vulva to
 the cervix of the deep uterus. In a typical woman standing upright, the vaginal tube points
 in an upward-backward direction and forms an angle of slightly more than 45 degrees
 with the uterus. The vaginal opening is at the caudal end of the vulva, behind the opening
 of the urethra. The upper one- fourth of the vagina is separated from the rectum by the
 recto-uterine pouch.
         [0022] In the present invention, for example, a device for vaginal insertion may be
equipped with at least one sensor capable of providing real-time data of one or more types
selected from the group consisting of position, movement, pressure, and flow. In this
regard, a sensor may have a single measurement and reporting capability, or may have
multiple measurement and reporting capabilities. The data obtained by the multiple
sensor-enabled device may be reported in any number of ways known in the art, including
the transmission to, and visualization on, a graphical user interface wirelessly.
           [0023] The device would be inserted into the vagina until the patient feels her
  cervix. The distal section of the device, in an inflatable embodiment, would be filled with
  air, gel, liquid, or other appropriate material suitable for inflation and deflation of a
  compartment, to fit the patient's vagina. In an embodiment with multiple inflatable
  sections, the rest of the compartments could be filled from distal to proximal (vaginal
  opening). In this way, a patient with POP not only would strengthen her vaginal muscles
  but could also use the device as a pessary that can be easily removed at home and would

 WO 2013/116310                                                            PCT/US2013/023806
                                               8
 not have the complications currently associated with pessaries, such as pressure point
 problems and vaginal infections.
         [0024] When the device is properly inserted and inflated, the health care provider
 or patient can visualize the device on a display screen. When the patient is asked to
 perform Kegel movements, the vaginal pressure or strength of the vaginal musculature
 will also be visualizable on the screen. The health care provider could then go through the
 exercises with the patient to ensure that she is performing the exercises optimally and has
 understood how to interpret the information and otherwise use the equipment properly.
         [0025] The multiple sensor-enabled device would be invaluable as a study or
rehabilitation tool for the health care provider as well as the patient who is considering a
pregnancy. The health care provider may be able to provide the patient with an exercise
regimen that could strengthen her vagina and urinary musculature at home before she had
her baby, helping her prevent urinary incontinence in the future and strengthening her
pelvic floor, before the possible damage may occur during pregnancy and delivery.
         [0026] The multiple sensor-enabled device could aid various diagnoses that rely
upon data concerning the position, strength and pressures of the vaginal space. By
combining pressure sensors along the multiple sensor-enabled inflatable vaginal insert
along with the positional sensors, objective measurements relating to vaginal pressure and
positional location can be evaluated and correlated to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of
UI or POP and the rehabilitation of the vaginal muscles and pelvic floor.
        [0027] In yet another embodiment of the present invention, the multiple sensor
enabled device can provide data, which is transmitted and recorded in a manner to create
and maintain historical patient information for medical and/or fitness purposes, such as a
pelvic floor muscle strengthening exercise calendar.
          [0028] Another use for a multiple sensor-enabled device would be to correct fecal
 incontinence, which is often another sequela of pregnancy and childbirth. For example, if
 a rectocele or enterocele is diagnosed, a multiple sensor-enabled device could be inserted
 into the rectum. With this information the health care provider would be able to properly
 diagnose the etiology of the fecal incontinence whether that is due to muscle weakness of
 the pelvic floor, a rectal sphincter deficiency, or a combination of the two. The health
 care provider could target the surgical repair, in real-time if preferred, to correct the fecal
 incontinence.

 WO 2013/116310                                                          PCT/US2013/023806
                                              9
         [0029] The multiple sensor-enabled device may incorporate at least one sensor
 capable of measuring and/or reporting data of various types including position,
 movement, pressure and flow. A multiple sensor-enabled device with more than one
 individual sensor may be arrayed as depicted in Figure 1. However, a multiple sensor
 enabled device may incorporate a single sensor capable of multiple measurement and
 reporting capabilities.
         [0030] The position and movement data may be of the sort measured and/or
 reported by any number of sensor devices, including an accelerometer, gyroscope,
 inductive non-contact position sensor, string potentiometer, linear variable differential
 transformer, potentiometer, capacitive transducer, Eddy-current sensor, Hall effect sensor,
 optical proximity sensor, piezo-electric transducer and photodiode array. The position and
 movement data may also include magnetic, electromagnetic, microelectromechanical,
 radio frequency, ultrasound and video.
        [0031] The pressure and flow data may be of the sort measured and/or reported by
any number of sensor devices, including force collector types, such as piezo-resistive,
capacitive, electromagnetic, piezo-electric, optical, potentiometric, or other types, such as
resonant, thermal, ionization, ultrasonic, and density (mass and index of refraction). In
addition, sensor technology that recognizes movement and touch may be incorporated,
which includes the types such as resistive, surface acoustic wave, capacitive (surface
capacitance, projected capacitance, mutual capacitance, and self-capacitance), infrared,
optical imaging, dispersive signal technology, and acoustic pulse recognition.
        [0032] Figure 1 depicts a multiple sensor-enable device for vaginal insertion with
inflatable compartments. The number and precise placement of an individual sensor may
vary depending on the type of positional, movement, pressure or flow measurement
and/or reporting system employed. An individual sensor may have a single function or be
multifunction (such as positional tracking combined with pressure and flow sensing). The
multiple sensor-enabled device may also embody a video observation and/or recording
device as well as an illumination source to facilitate such video capture. The precise
placement of the sensor(s) and video capture component(s) need not be pre-defined, and
may be configured according to the requirements of the desired application.

 WO 2013/116310                                                           PCT/US2013/023806
                                             10
                                  SPECIFIC EXAMPLES
          [0033] As described earlier, the devices of the present invention may embody at
 least one sensor capable of measuring and reporting at least one data type, including
 position, movement, pressure, and flow. These include, but are not limited to, magnetic,
 electromagnetic, microelectromechanical, radio frequency, ultrasound and video. One
 example of a multiple sensor-enabled device contains various microelectromechanical
 (MEMS) sensors: a 3-axis accelerometer, a roll/pitch gyroscope and a yaw rate
 gyroscope, and a pressure and flow transducer. The sensors may be mounted on a small
 flexible printed circuit board (PCB) and then attached to, or incorporated within, the
 device. The 3-axis accelerometer tracks translation of the device in three directions. The
 gyroscopes are utilized to account for gravitational rotation, allowing real-time
 movement to be tracked.
         [0034] A PCB is prepared with MEMS sensors mounted thereon. Soft leads can
trail the MEMS sensors to supporting components, including, for example, a data
acquisition card which may be used for transforming analog signals to digital signals. The
PCB is set within the wall of the device. The location of the device may be determined by
the output signals of the MEMS sensors.
             [0035] In an embodiment where the multiple sensor-enabled device contains
inflatable compartments, the device may be inserted in the length of the vagina at which
point the compartment nearest the cervix is inflated to obtain a stationary and/or
comfortable fit within the vagina. Any additional inflatable compartments may be inflated
together or in sequence from distal to proximal to the vaginal opening.
         [0036] The patient may be asked to perform a Kegel movement, while the health
care provider and/or the patient observes the display output to confirm that the patient is
performing the exercise optimally. The pressure and muscular strength of the vagina as
measured by the multiple sensor-enable device would be displayed to reflect the
effectiveness of the therapy. The position of the urethra and bladder neck may also be
displayed in real time on a graphical user interface and/or recorded.
        [0037] Following the examination using the multiple sensor-enabled device, the
health care provider may conclude that rehabilitation is an efficacious option for the
patient. In this regard, the measurements provided by the multiple sensor-enabled device

 WO 2013/116310                                                          PCT/US2013/023806
                                             11
may be recorded to facilitate appropriate patient instructions on performing Kegel
exercises in an optimal manner using the visual (on-screen) information provided by the
device in real-time. Once engaging the proper musculature has been successfully
communicated to the patient during the medical office visit, the patient may be sent home
with the instructions to perform Kegel exercises five to six times daily, for example. Four
to six weeks later the patient may return for another examination using the multiple
sensor-enabled device to evaluate rehabilitative treatment effectiveness, which may allow
the health care provider to advise the patient about the prospects for restoring complete
continence with a continued rehabilitation regime and/or a surgical procedure.
        [0038] Detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein;
however, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of
the invention that may be embodied in various forms. It will be appreciated that many
modifications and other variations that will be appreciated by those skilled in the art are
within the intended scope of this invention as claimed below without departing from the
teachings, spirit and intended scope of the invention.

                                                    12
What is claimed is:
1. A method for diagnosing pelvic organ prolapse (POP) or pelvic floor weakness in a patient
comprising the steps of:
         (a) inserting into the patient's vagina a device comprising a plurality of
microelectromechanical accelerometers positioned along a length of the device;
         (b) displaying on a graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during relaxation of the patient's pelvic floor
musculature and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface; and
         (c) displaying on the graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during performance by the patient of a pelvic floor
exercise and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface; wherein a caudal
movement in the position of the patient's vagina during the performance of the pelvic floor
exercise displayed in step (c) relative to the position of the patient's vagina during relaxation of
the patient's pelvic floor musculature in step (b) indicates POP or pelvic floor weakness in the
patient.
2. A method for treating pelvic organ prolapse (POP) or pelvic floor weakness in a patient
comprising the steps of:
         (a) inserting into a patient's vagina a device comprising a plurality of
microelectromechanical accelerometers positioned along a length of the device;
         (b) displaying on a graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during relaxation of the patient's pelvic floor
musculature and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface;
         (c) displaying on the graphical user interface a position of the patient's vagina that is
generated by the accelerometers of the device during performance by the patient of a pelvic floor
exercise and communicated by the device to the graphical user interface; wherein reduced
movement in the position of the patient's vagina in a caudal direction during the performance of
the pelvic floor exercise displayed in step (c) relative to the position of the patient's vagina
during the relaxation of the patient's pelvic floor musculature in step (b) indicates treatment of
POP or pelvic floor weakness in the patient.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the method strengthens the pelvic floor muscles of the
patient.
4. The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein the method restores non-caudal movement of the
patient's vagina during the performance of the pelvic floor exercise relative to the position of the
patient's vagina during the relaxation of step (b).
5. The method of any one of claims 2-4, wherein the method alleviates urinary and/or fecal
incontinence.
6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the displaying of steps (b) and (c) occurs in
real-time and/or wherein the device transmits the position of the patient's vagina during steps (b)
and (c) wirelessly to the graphical user interface.

                                                  13
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the graphical user interface is a display screen
of a computer or smart phone.
8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the method further comprises repeating steps
(b) and (c) one or more times.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein steps (b) and (c) are repeated five or six times
and/or wherein steps (b) and (c) are performed every four to six weeks.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the method further comprises monitoring
and/or recording the position of the patient's vagina during step (b) or (c).
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the device further comprises one or more
additional sensors capable of providing real-time data selected from the group consisting of
position, movement, pressure, and flow, and/or wherein the device further comprises an
inflatable component.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the device further comprises a pressure
sensor.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the device is inserted wholly within the
vagina.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the method further comprises repeating the
pelvic floor exercise to strengthen pelvic floor muscles of the patient.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the pelvic floor exercise comprises a Kegel
maneuver.
16. The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the pelvic floor exercise comprises a
Valsalva maneuver.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
