                                            10
   ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A multifunctional carry bag having a screen includes: a bag body,
   extended with a display face; a counterweight element, configured in an inner
   compartment of the bag body, the counterweight element extended with at
 5 least one support configured with a display screen, the support in connection
   with the counterweight element through a hinge structure, and the supports
   and display screen configured on the display face.    Furthermore, one side of
   the display face is configured with a fixed element, the bag body is extended
   with buckling element configured with a fixing element, and the buckling
10 element is in movable connection with the fixed element through the fixing
   element. The bag body is configured with an accommodation space.
   Whereby, the present invention has an article carrying function, occupies no
   space and is portable conveniently.

CNC
    CCY\ Co)

                                             1
   TITLE: MULTIFUNCTIONAL CARRY BAG HAVING SCREEN
     (a) Technical Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a carry bag, and more particularly to a
   multifunctional carry bag having a screen.
 5 (b) Description of the Prior Art
         Smart portable devices include tablets, smart phones and the like.
   Taking tablets as an example, protective covers, supports and the like are
   derived therefrom; a protective cover is commonly used to protect the external
   surface or the screen of a tablet from being scratched or make the table fixed
10 while it is in combination with the tablet; the tablet can be stood at a specific
   angle by folding the protective cover itself, allowing the tablet (screen thereof)
   to be fixed in a specific direction allowing a user to view easily. But, such
   kind of technical solution is limited in the angle adjustment of tablets (screens)
   and unable to provide them with a convenient angle rotation angle by
15 combining the current protective covers with tablets.
         In addition, the current smart portable devices such as laptops, smart
   phones or tablets, in a similar situation may be collected or stored with a bag.
   In such technical solution, a smart portable device rather occupies the space in
   a bag when the bag carried by a user is simply used to receive or store the
20 smart portable device, and most bags only have a simple collection or storage

                                            2
  function. Therefore, it is necessary for a user to carry two bags, one of which
  is to receive other items and another is to store a tablet or laptop when the user
  wants to carry the tablet or laptop out, which occupies space and inconvenient
  to carry.
5

                                           3
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The main object of the present invention is to provide a multifunctional
   carry bag having a screen, having a screen, capable of carrying articles,
   occupying no space and being portable conveniently.
 5      Another object of the present invention is provide a multifunctional carry
   bag having a screen, capable of adjusting display angle of the screen
   conveniently i a large range.
        To achieve the objects mentioned above, the present invention proposes a
   multifunctional carry bag having a screen, including: a bag body, extended
10 with a display face; a counterweight element, configured in an inner
   compartment of the bag body, the counterweight element extended with at
   least one support configured with a display screen, the support in connection
   with the counterweight element through a hinge structure, and the supports
   and display screen configured on the display face.
15      According to the carry bag mentioned above, one side of the display face
   is configured with a fixed element, the bag body is extended with buckling
   element configured with a fixing element, and the buckling element is in
   movable connection with the fixed element through the fixing element. The
   bag body is configured with an accommodation space.
20

                                            4
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIG 1 is an exploded view of a preferred embodiment of a
   multifunctional carry bag having a screen of the present invention;
        FIG 2 is a perspective view of the embodiment of FIG 1;
 5      FIG 3 is a side view of the embodiment of FIG 2 in a use state;
        FIG 4 is a schematically perspective view of the embodiment, where the
   display screen is taken in and not in use, and articles are stored or collected;
        FIG 5 is a schematically perspective view of the embodiment of FIG 4,
   where the articles are stored or collected after the display screen is taken in;
10      FIG 6 is a schematically perspective view, after a buckling element is
   buckled up; and
        FIG 7 is a schematically perspective view of the embodiment of the
   present invention, where the article is a notebook, allowing the display screen
   of the bag body and the screen of the notebook to form a synchronous display
15 dual screen effect.

                                             5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, a multifunctional carry bag having a screen
   includes a bag body 1 and counterweight element 2, where the bag body 1 is
   extended upward with a display face 10, which may be an extraordinary
 5 configuration made of cloth or plastics similar to the material of the bag body
    1, and the display face 10 may also be a part of the bag 1 itself formed by
   means of cutting.     Preferably, an included angle is formed between the
   display face 10 and bag body 1.
         In addition, the counterweight element 2 is a plate configured in the inner
10 compartment of the bag body, and the counterweight element 2 is extended
   with two supports 21, each of which may be a long-strip typed metal, where a
   display screen 3, which is the current display screen allowing video, audio
   signals to be input therein is fixed on the two supports 21 such that it has a
   connector output input module.       In addition, each support 21 is in connection
15 with the counterweight element 2 through a hinge structure, and the two
   supports 21 and display screen 3 are fixed to the display face 10.      Therefore,
   the bag body 1 may have a display screen, and preferably, the display screen 3
   may be a tablet or touch screen.
         Referring to FIG 3, which shows a use state, structure and related action
20 principle only in a certain situation, but the present invention is not so limited.

                                             6
   In the embodiment, a user can make the display face 10 together with the
   supports 21 and display screen 3 take the counterweight element 2 as a base
   and use hinge structure 4 to generate a display angle adjustment effect of the
   display screen 3 relatively to the direction of the bag body 1; the friction force
 5 generated upon the rotation of the hinge structure 4 itself allows the display
   screen 3 to be fixed at a specific angle, thereby allowing the present invention
   to have the display effect of the display screen 3, and be convenient for the
   adjustment of the display rotation angle of the display screen 3 in a large range.
   The multifunctional carry bag having a screen of the present invention further
10 allows the display screen 3 to display information contents and the rotation
   angle of the display screen 3 to be adjusted in a large range besides the bag
   body 1 and display face 10 thereof to protect the display screen 3 from
   collision and scratch.   In addition, it occupies no space, is convenient to be
   carried, and achieves a multifunctional effect.
15      Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2 again, one side (the outer side) of the display
   face is configured with a fixed element 101, which may be a Velcro, magic
   sticker, or adhesive.   Furthermore, the bag body 1 is extended with a
   buckling element 11, which may also be the same cloth or plastics as the
   material of the bag body 1, where the inner side of the buckling element 11 is
20 configured with a fixing element 12, which may also be a Velcro, magic

                                             7
   sticker or adhesive.    For example, the above Velcros are stuck together by
   one touch or separated from each other by one pull.       Therefore, the buckling
   element 11 can be movably connected to the fixed element 101 through the
   fixing element 12, and the bag body 1 is configured with an accommodation
 5 space 13.
         Therefore, referring to FIGS. 4 to 6, the display face 10, as FIG 4 shows,
   is rotated toward the bag body 1 together with the supports 21 and display
   screen 3 through the hinge structure 4, and finally covered on the bag body 1.
   In the embodiment, the buckling element 11, as FIG 6 shows, may be buckled
10 to the display face 10 by sticking the fixing element 12 to the fixed element
    101 by means of active fixation (e.g. Velcro), allowing the display screen 3 to
   be stably hid inside the bag body 1 (the display screen 3 is hid temporarily) so
   that the entire bag body 1 is easily portable, occupies no space and can be
   operated quickly upon the open or close of the display screen 3.
15       In addition, the articles may be stored inside the accommodation space 13
   when the carry bag of the present invention is carried out, where the articles
   may for example be daily necessities, books mobile devices, and the like. In
   the embodiment, a notebook is stored inside the accommodation space 13, as
   FIGS. 4 and 5 show, thereby allowing the present invention to have the effect

                                            8
   of carrying articles, allowing the bag body 1 to have extra storage space for the
   placement of articles.
         Referring to FIG 7, the display screen 3 of the bag body 1 can be in signal
   connection with a notebook 100 through a transmission line 200 and the two
 5 end connectors 201 thereof when the multifunctional carry bag having a
   screen is carries out together with the notebook 100, where one of the end
   connectors 201 is in connection with a connection port output/input module 31,
   and the other end connector 201 the notebook 100, allowing display contents
   32 of the display screen 3 of the bag body to be displayed synchronously with
10 display contents 300 of the notebook 100 so as to generate a double-screen
   synchronous display effect (dual screen mode display), thereby increasing
   practicability and convenience for the present invention.   In the embodiment,
   the transmission line 200 and connector 201 thereof may be a transmission
   line capable of transmission of video, audio signals such as a type-C
15 transmission line or high definition multimedia interface (HDMI) transmission
   line.
20

                                         9
   I CLAIM:
       1. A multifunctional carry bag having a screen, comprising:
           a bag body, extended with a display face;
           a counterweight element, configured in an inner compartment of
 5        said bag body, said counterweight element extended with at least one
          support configured with a display screen, said support in connection
          with said counterweight element through a hinge structure, and said
          supports and display screen configured on said display face.
       2. The carry bag according to claim 1, wherein one side of said display
10        face is configured with a fixed element, said bag body is extended
          with buckling element configured with a fixing element, and said
          buckling element is in movable connection with said fixed element
          through said fixing element.
       3. The carry bag according to claim 2, wherein said bag body is
15        configured with an accommodation space.

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There are 7 pages of Drawings only

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 1

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 2

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 3

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 4

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 5

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 6

       <removed-apn> <removed-date>
FIG. 7

