                                     ABSTRACT
The present disclosure is a system and method for producing a first product from a
first region of an electrochemical cell having a cathode and a second product from
a second region of the electrochemical cell having an anode.      The method may
include the step of contacting the first region of the electrochemical cell with a
catholyte comprising an alcohol and carbon dioxide. Another step of the method
may include contacting the second region of the electrochemical cell with an
anolyte comprising the alcohol.      Further, the method may include a step of
applying an electrical potential between the anode and the cathode sufficient to
produce a first product recoverable from the first region and a second product
recoverable from the second region.

    ELECTROCHEMICAL REDUCTION OF C02 WITH CO-OXIDATION OF AN ALCOHOL
                                  TECHNICAL FIELD
The present application is a divisional application from Australian           Patent
Application No. 2013318507 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
by reference
[0001] The present disclosure generally relates to the field of electrochemical
reactions, and more particularly to methods and/or systems for electrochemical
reduction of carbon dioxide with co-oxidation of an alcohol.
                                    BACKGROUND
[0002]  The combustion of fossil fuels in activities such as electricity generation,
transportation, and manufacturing produces billions of tons of carbon dioxide
annually. Research since the 1970s indicates increasing concentrations of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere may be responsible for altering the Earth's climate,
changing the pH of the ocean and other potentially damaging effects. Countries
around the world, including the United States, are seeking ways to mitigate
emissions of carbon dioxide.
[0003]  A mechanism for mitigating emissions is to convert carbon dioxide into
economically valuable materials such as fuels and industrial chemicals.        If the
carbon dioxide is converted using energy from renewable sources, both mitigation
of carbon dioxide emissions and conversion of renewable energy into a chemical
form that can be stored for later use will be possible.
                                      SUMMARY
[0004]  The present disclosure is directed to a system and method for producing a
first product from a first region of an electrochemical cell having a cathode and a
second product from a second region of the electrochemical cell having an anode.
The method may include the step of contacting the first region of the
electrochemical cell with a catholyte comprising carbon dioxide and optionally an
alcohol. Another step of the method may include contacting the second region of
the electrochemical cell with an anolyte comprising an alcohol.         Further, the
                                           1

method may include a step of applying an electrical potential between the anode
and the cathode sufficient to produce a first product recoverable from the first
region and a second product recoverable from the second region.
[0005] It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not
necessarily restrictive of the present disclosure.    The accompanying drawings,
which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification, illustrate
subject matter of the disclosure.      Together, the descriptions and the drawings
serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006] The numerous advantages of the disclosure may be better understood by
those skilled in the art by reference to the accompanying figures in which:
       FIG. 1A is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an embodiment of
the present disclosure;
       FIG. 1B is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an embodiment of
the present disclosure;
       FIG.   2 is a block diagram of a system in accordance with another
embodiment of the present disclosure;
       FIG. 3 is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an additional
embodiment of the present disclosure;
       FIG. 4 is a block diagram of a system in accordance with another additional
embodiment of the present disclosure;
       FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of a method of electrochemical co-production of
products in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure; and
       FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of a method of electrochemical co-production of
products in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                           2

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0007]   Reference will now be made in detail to the subject matter disclosed, which
is illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
[0008]   Referring generally to FIGS. 1-6, systems and methods of electrochemical
co-production of products with a carbon-based reactant, such as an alcohol,
supplied to an anode are disclosed.       It is contemplated that the electrochemical
co-production of products may include a production of a first product, such as
reduction of carbon dioxide to carbon-based products to include one, two, three,
and four carbon chemicals, at a cathode side of an electrochemical cell with co
production of a second product, such as an oxidized carbon-based product, at the
anode of the electrochemical cell whereby the anolyte includes an alcohol.
[0009] Before any embodiments of the disclosure are explained in detail, it is to be
understood that the embodiments may not be limited in application according to
the details of the structure or the function as set forth in the following
descriptions or illustrated in the figures. Different embodiments may be capable of
being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the
phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and
should not be regarded as limiting. The use of terms such as "including,"
"comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein are generally meant to
encompass the item listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional
items. Further, unless otherwise noted, technical terms may be used according to
conventional usage.     It is further contemplated that like reference numbers may
describe similar components and the equivalents thereof.
[0010] Referring to FIG. 1A, a block diagram of a system 100 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure is shown.             System (or apparatus) 100
generally includes an electrochemical           cell (also  referred as a container,
electrolyzer, or cell) 102, a carbon based reactant source 104, a carbon dioxide
                                              3

source 106, a first product extractor 110 and a first product 113, a second product
extractor 112, second product 115, and an energy source 114.
[0011] Electrochemical cell 102 may be implemented as a divided cell. The divided
cell may be a divided electrochemical cell and/or a divided photoelectrochemical
cell. Electrochemical cell 102 may include a first region 116 and a second region
118. First region 116 and second region 118 may refer to a compartment, section,
or generally enclosed space, and the like without departing from the scope and
intent of the present disclosure.    First region 116 may include a cathode 122.
Second region 118 may include an anode 124.         First region 116 may include a
catholyte whereby carbon dioxide is dissolved in the catholyte.       A heterocyclic
catalyst, such as pyridine, imidazole, lutadines, or bipyridines, may also be in the
catholyte.    Second region 118 may include an anolyte which may include an
alcohol. The anolyte may be free of halide ions. Energy source 114 may generate
an electrical potential between the anode 124 and the cathode 122. The electrical
potential may be a DC voltage.         Energy source 114 may be configured to
implement a variable voltage or variable current source. Separator 120 may
selectively control a flow of ions between the first region 116 and the second
region 118. Separator 120 may include an ion conducting membrane or diaphragm
material.
[0012] Electrochemical cell 102 is generally operational to reduce carbon dioxide in
the first region 116 to a first product 113 recoverable from the first region 116
while producing a second product 115 recoverable from the second region 118.
Cathode 122 may reduce the carbon dioxide into a first product 113 that may
include one or more compounds.       Examples of the first product 113 recoverable
from the first region 116 by first product extractor 110 may include carbon
monoxide, formic acid, formaldehyde, methanol, oxalate, oxalic acid, glyoxylic
acid,  glycolic acid,   glyoxal,  glycolaldehyde,   ethylene glycol,   acetic acid,
acetaldehyde, ethanol, ethylene, methane, ethane, lactic acid, propanoic acid,
acetone, isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1,2-propylene glycol, propane, 1-butanol, and 2
butanol.
                                          4

[0013] Carbon dioxide source 106 may provide carbon dioxide to the first region
116 of electrochemical cell 102. In some embodiments, the carbon dioxide is
introduced directly into the region 116 containing the cathode 122.
[0014] First product extractor 110 may implement an organic product and/or
inorganic product extractor. First product extractor 110 is generally operational to
extract (separate) the first product 113 from the first region 116.   The extracted
first product 113 may be presented through a port of the system 100 for
subsequent storage and/or consumption by other devices and/or processes.
[0015] Second product extractor 112 may extract the second product 115 from the
second region 118. The extracted second product 115 may be presented through a
port of the system 100 for subsequent storage and/or consumption by other
devices and/or processes.
[0016] The anode side of the reaction occurring in the second region 118 may
include a carbon-based reactant 104, such as an alcohol, which may be in the form
of a gas phase, liquid phase, or as a mixed solution phase reactant supplied to the
second region 118. The reaction occurring in the second region 118 may include a
variety of oxidations such as the oxidation of a primary alcohol to an aldehyde or a
secondary alcohol to a ketone. The second product recoverable from the second
region 118 may also include a carboxylic acid, or both a carboxylic acid and an
aldehyde. The carboxylic acid may include formic acid, acetic acid, propanoic
acid, butanoic acid, or acrylic acid.       Examples of the second product 115
recoverable from the second region 118 and the carbon- based reactant supplied
to the second region 118 are in the table below.
                                          5

[0017]
           Chemical Feed to Anode                Oxidation Product(s)
     Methanol                            Formaldehyde, Formic Acid
     Ethanol                             Acetaldehyde, Acetic Acid
     Ethylene Glycol                     Glycolaldehyde, Glyoxal, Glycolic
                                         Acid, Glyoxylic Acid, Oxalic Acid
     Glycerol                            Glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone,
                                         2,3 Dihydroxypropionic acid
     Polyols                             Polyol-aldehydes, Polyol-ketones,
                                         Polyol-carboxylic acids
     2-Propanol                          2-Propanone (Acetone)
     1-Propanol                          Propionaldehyde, Propanoic Acid
     1-Butanol                           Butyraldehyde, Butanoic Acid
     2-Butanol                           Butanone
     Phenol                              Hydroquinone 1-2 dihydrobenzene
                                         (Catechol).
                                         2,5 Cyclohexadiene-1 -one
                                         Benzoquinone,
                                         Maleic Acid,
                                         Oxalic Acid
     Benzyl Alcohol                      Benzaldehyde, Benzoic Acid
     Allyl Alcohol                       Acrolein, Acrylic Acid
                                    TABLE 1
[0018]In one embodiment shown in FIG. 1B, the cathode side of the reaction
occurring in the first region 116 may also receive a feed of the alcohol. In this
embodiment, the alcohol is supplied to the first region 116 in addition to the
carbon dioxide source 106. The alcohol may act as a solvent for the carbon dioxide
in the first region 116 and the alcohol and carbon dioxide source 106 may be
supplied in a solution.
                                        6

[0019] A glycol or diol or polyol may also serve as a solvent and reactant in the
cell. For instance, ethylene glycol or glycerol might be a solvent in the
electrochemical cell and cathode reactions involving the reduction of carbon
dioxide or other carbon-based compounds would take place in the ethylene glycol
or glycerol. At the anode, ethylene glycol would be oxidized to a product or
products such as glyoxal or glyoxylic acid, and glycerol would be oxidized to a
product or products such       as glyceraldehyde,  glyceric acid,   glycolic acid,
dihydroxyacetone, or 2, 3 dihydroxypropionic acid.    Other polyols could be used
and would be oxidized to corresponding, polyol-aldehydes, polyol-ketones, and
polyol-carboxylic acids.
[0020]Through the co-production of a first product 113 and a second product 115,
the overall energy requirement for making each of the first product 113 and
second product 115 may be reduced by 50% or more. In addition, electrochemical
cell 102 may be capable of simultaneously producing two or more products with
high selectivity.
[0021]A preferred embodiment of the present disclosure is the use of a methanol
feed to both the anode and the cathode to make organic chemicals such as acetic
acid at the cathode while simultaneously making formaldehyde at the anode.
Referring to FIG.    2, system 200 for co-production of acetic acid 210 and
formaldehyde 212 is shown. The oxidation of alcohol, such as methanol 220 in the
second region 118 produces protons and electrons that are utilized to reduce
carbon dioxide in the first region 116. The hydrogen resulting from the oxidation
reaction at the second region 118 may be reacted with the carbon dioxide and the
methanol provided by alcohol source 104 to the first region 116 to selectively
produce acetate or acetic acid 210.
[0022] Formaldehyde 212 is produced at the second region 118 from CO2 and the
methanol provided by alcohol source 104. The alcohol source 104 is thus used both
in the oxidation of the second product (formaldehyde 212) and in the transfer of
hydrogen from the carbon-based reactant to the first region 116 for CO2 reduction.
                                         7

The alcohol may serve as the primary hydrogen source for CO2 reduction. Both the
first region 116 and the second region 118 may utilize the methanol provided by
alcohol source 104 as part of the catholyte or anolyte.
[0023] In one embodiment of the disclosure, when the first product is acetic acid
210 and the second product is formaldehyde 212 from methanol provided by
alcohol source 104, then the molar ratio of the products may be 1 acetic acid: 4
formaldehyde because acetic acid production from CO2 is an 8 electron process
and    formaldehyde    production   from    methanol     is a two    electron     process.
Specifically, the anode reaction is:
                     4 CH30H => 4 CH20       +  8 H* + 8 e
[0024] In the anode reaction, methanol is provided by alcohol source 104 and the
methanol is oxidized to formaldehyde, and 2 hydrogen ions are formed which pass
through the separator/membrane separating the first region 116 from the second
region 118.
[0025]The cathode reaction is the formation of acetate or acetic acid as follows:
                     2 C0 2 +  8 H*  + 8e    =>   CH3 COO   +  H* +  2 H2 0
[0026]In the cathode reaction, hydrogen ions from the second region 118 pass
through the membrane to the first region 116 to react with carbon dioxide to form
acetic acid or acetate.
[0027]The     combined    reaction   of methanol      with   carbon   dioxide to      form
formaldehyde and acetic acid of the embodiment of the system shown in FIG. 2 is:
                     4 CH30H    + 2 CO2  =>   4 CH20   +  CH3 COO  + H*+   2 H2 0
[0028]The combined reaction for the production of formaldehyde from methanol
oxidation may be controlled through selection of the anode material, anode
material morphology, half-cell potential, the flow rate, and the concentration of
water in the methanol feed, as well as other factors.
                                            8

[0029]The concentration of the formaldehyde product leaving the second region
may be from 1 to 50% by weight in one embodiment, and more preferably 10 to
40% by weight.        The methanol concentration may determine the anolyte
conductivity, and should be sufficient in concentration to maintain low voltages in
the second region. Preferably, the concentration ranges from 1 to 100% and more
preferably from 5 to 90%.
[0030]While system 200 of FIG. 2 is shown with a reactant of methanol, it is
contemplated that other types of alcohols may be supplied by alcohol source 104
to produce various types of products (first product and second product) as desired
and shown in an exemplary fashion in Table 1. It is further contemplated that
other types of products may be co-produced by the anode and cathode of an
electrochemical cell without departing from the scope and intent of the present
disclosure.
[0031]Reactions occurring at the first region 116 may occur in a catholyte which
may include water,        methanol,    ethanol,   acetonitrile,  propylene carbonate,
ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dimethylsulfoxide,
dimethytformamide,          acetonitrile,     acetone,       tetrahydrofuran,       NN
dimethylacetaminde,       dimethoxyethane,      diethylene    glycol  dimethyl    ester,
butyrolnitrile,   1,2-difluorobenzene,     y-butyrolactone,     N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
sulfolane,   1,4-dioxane, nitrobenzene,      nitromethane,     acetic anhydride,   ionic
liquids, or other catholytes in which CO2 is soluble. The alcohol source 104 and
carbon dioxide source 106 may be configured to supply the carbon-based reactant
and carbon dioxide separately or jointly.         The alcohol source 104 and carbon
dioxide source 106 may be supplied in a solution. The carbon-based reactant
source 104 and carbon dioxide source 106 may also be configured to supply the
alcohol and carbon dioxide in solution with the catholyte.
[0032]The reactions occurring at the second region 118 may be in a gas phase, for
instance in the case of gas phase reactants such as methane. The reaction at the
second region 118 may also occur in liquid phase.
                                            9

[0033]A catalyst may be employed in the second region 118 to promote the
reaction.  For example, a metal or metal oxide catalyst may be incorporated into
the anode 124 in order to decrease the anode 124 potential and/or increase anode
124 current density, in addition to improving the selectivity of the oxidation
reaction to the products desired. Examples of catalysts may include the metal and
metal oxides of transition metals and their alloys and mixtures, including those of
W, Mo, V, Fe, Ru, Ir, Au, and Pt. These catalysts may be deposited on the anode
structure surfaces and/or on separate supports located in the second region on
inorganic or carbon based supports.   In addition, the catalyst may also consist of
other forms or compositions suitable for the oxidation of the alcohols such as
boron-doped diamond films deposited on conductive metal or inorganic supports.
[0034] Referring to FIGS. 3-4, block diagrams of systems 300, 400 in accordance
with additional embodiments of the present disclosure are shown.      Systems 300,
400 provide additional embodiments to systems 100, 200 of FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 2 to
co-produce a first product and second product.
[0035]Referring to specifically to FIG. 3, first region 116 may produce a first
product of H2 310 which is combined with carbon dioxide 332 in a reactor 330
which may perform a reverse water gas shift reaction. This reverse water gas shift
reaction performed by reactor 330 may produce water 334 and carbon monoxide
336.   Carbon monoxide 336 along with H2 310 may be combined at reactor 338.
Reactor 338 may cause a reaction, such as a Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, to reduce
carbon monoxide to a product 340. Product 340 may include methane, methanol,
hydrocarbons, glycols. Reactor 338 may also include transition metals such as iron,
cobalt, and ruthenium as well as other transition metal oxides as catalysts, on
inorganic support structures that may promote the reaction of CO with hydrogen at
lower temperatures and pressures.
[0036]Second region 118 may co-produce formaldehyde 312 from methanol 304
reactant. It is contemplated that methanol 304 may include methanol or any other
alcohol such as ethanol, 2-propanol, phenol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol,
                                        10

isopropanol, benzyl alcohol, and allyl alcohol without departing from the scope or
intent of the present disclosure. Formaldehyde 312 may also refer to any type of
aldehyde or a carboxylic acid, including for example formic acid, acetaldehyde,
acetic acid, 2-propanone (acetone), hydroquinone, 1-2 dihydrobenzene (catechol),
2,5    cyclohexadiene- 1-one,     benzoquinone,     maleic   acid,    oxalic   acid,
propionaldehyde,    propanoic    acid,  butyraldehyde,  butanoic   acid,  butanone,
acetone, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid, acrolein, and acrylic acid, without departing
from the scope or intent of the present disclosure.
[0037] Referring to FIG. 4, first region 116 may produce a first product of carbon
monoxide 410 which is combined with water 432 in a reactor 430 which may
perform a water gas shift reaction.     The water gas shift reaction performed by
reactor 430 may produce carbon dioxide 434 and H2 436.        Carbon monoxide 410
and H2 436 may be combined at reactor 438.       Reactor 438 may cause a reaction,
such as a Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, to reduce carbon monoxide to methane,
methanol, hydrocarbons, glycols, olefins by utilizing H2 436.   Carbon dioxide 434
may be a byproduct of water gas shift reaction of reactor 430 and may be recycled
as an input feed to the first region 116. Reactor 438 may also include transition
metals such as iron, cobalt, and ruthenium as well as other transition metal oxides
as catalysts, on inorganic support structures that may promote the reaction of CO
with hydrogen at lower temperatures and pressures.
[0038]Second region 118 may co-produce formaldehyde 412 from methanol 404
reactant. It is contemplated that methanol 404 may include methanol or another
alcohol such as ethanol, 2-propanol, phenol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol,
isopropanol, benzyl alcohol, and allyl alcohol without departing from the scope or
intent of the present disclosure. Formaldehyde 412 may also refer to any type of
aldehyde or a carboxylic acid, including for example formic acid, acetaldehyde,
acetic acid, 2-propanone (acetone), hydroquinone, 1-2 dihydrobenzene (catechol),
2,5    cyclohexadiene- 1-one,     benzoquinone,     maleic   acid,    oxalic   acid,
propionaldehyde,    propanoic    acid,  butyraldehyde,  butanoic   acid,  butanone,
                                          11

acetone, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid, acrolein, and acrylic acid, without departing
from the scope or intent of the present disclosure.
[0039] Referring to FIG. 5 a flow diagram of a method 500 of electrochemical co
production of products in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure is shown.   It is contemplated that method 500 may be performed by
system 100 and system 200 as shown in FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 2. Method 500 may
include producing a first product from a first region of an electrochemical cell
having a cathode and a second product from a second region                     of the
electrochemical cell having an anode.
[0040]Method 500 of electrochemical co-production of products may include a step
of contacting the first region with a catholyte comprising carbon dioxide and an
alcohol 510. Next, method 500 may include the step of contacting the second
region with an anolyte comprising alcohol 520. The method 500 may further
include the step of applying an electrical potential between the anode and the
cathode sufficient to produce the first product recoverable from the first region
and the second product recoverable from the second region. Advantageously, a
first product produced at the first region may be recoverable from the first region
and a second product produced at the second region may be recoverable from the
second region.
[0041]Referring to FIG. 6 a flow diagram of a method 600 of electrochemical co
production of products in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure is shown.   It is contemplated that method 600 may be performed by
system 100 and system 200 as shown in FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 2. Method 600 may
include steps for producing a first product from a first region of an electrochemical
cell having a cathode and a second product from a second region of the
electrochemical cell having an anode.
[0042]Method 600 may include the step of receiving a feed of carbon dioxide and
methanol at the first region of the electrochemical cell 610. A further step of
                                          12

method 600 may include contacting the first region with a catholyte comprising
carbon dioxide and methanol 620. The method 600 also includes the step of
receiving a feed of methanol at the second region of the electrochemical cell 630
and contacting the second region with an anolyte comprising methanol 610. The
method also includes the step of applying an electrical potential between the
anode and the cathode sufficient to produce the first product recoverable from the
first region and the second product recoverable from the second region 650.
[0043] It is contemplated that receiving a feed may include various mechanisms for
receiving a supply of a reactant, whether in a continuous, near continuous or batch
portions.    Similarly, the reactant (such as the alcohol or carbon dioxide) may be
jointly fed with additional reactants, the anolyte or catholyte, or may be fed
separately into either the first region or second region.
[0044]It is further contemplated that the structure and operation of the
electrochemical cell may be adjusted to provide desired results. For example, the
electrochemical cell may operate at higher pressures, such as pressures above
atmospheric pressure which may increase current efficiency and allow for
operation of the electrochemical cell at higher current densities.
[0045]The first product and the second product may be mixed with other products.
For example, the second product may include a methanol/formaldehyde mixture,
or a methanol/carboxylic acid mixture. These mixtures may be separated outside
of the electrochemical cell using conventional separation techniques, including
distillation and esterification.
[0046] In one embodiment, the Faradaic current efficiency of the anode could be
between 90 to 100%, and the acetate Faradaic current efficiency could be between
25 and 100%.      The flow circulation of the anolyte and catholyte is such that it
provides sufficient flow for the reactions. The flow rate may be varied to select for
the production of different products, such as formaldehyde instead of formic acid,
CO, and CO2 from methanol oxidation.
                                           13

[0047]Additionally, the cathode and anode may comprise a high surface area with
a void volume which may range from 30% to 98%. The surface area may be from 2
cm2 /cm 3 to 500 cm2 /cm 3 or higher. It is contemplated that surface areas also may
be defined as a total area in comparison to the current distributor/conductor back
plate, with a preferred range of 2x to 1000x or more.
[0048]The anode may comprise a polymeric bound carbon current distributor
anode employing a carbon felt with a specific surface area of 50 cm2 /cm3 or more
that fills the gap between a cathode backplate and the membrane, resulting in a
zero gap anode.
[0049]The cathode may comprise a number of high surface area materials to
include copper, stainless steels, carbon, and silicon, which may be further coated
with a layer of material which may be a conductive metal or semiconductor.            A
very thin plastic screen may be incorporated against the cathode side of the
membrane to prevent the membrane from touching the high surface area cathode
structure. The high surface area cathode structure may be mechanically pressed
against the cathode current distributor backplate, which may be composed of
material that has the same surface composition as the high surface area cathode.
For electrochemical reductions, the cathode electrode may                be a suitable
conductive electrode, such as Al, Au, Ag, Bi, C, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Cu alloys (e.g.,
brass and bronze), Ga, Hg, In, Mo, Nb, Ni, NiCo 2 0 4 , Ni alloys (e.g., Ni 625, NiHX),
Ni-Fe alloys, Pb, Pd alloys (e.g., PdAg), Pt, Pt alloys (e.g., PtRh), Rh, Sn, Sn alloys
(e.g., SnAg, SnPb, SnSb), Ti, V, W, Zn, stainless steel (SS) (e.g., SS 2205, SS 304, SS
316, SS 321), austenitic steel, ferritic steel, duplex steel, martensitic steel,
Nichrome (e.g., NiCr 60:16 (with Fe)), elgiloy (e.g., Co-Ni-Cr), degenerately doped
n-Si, degenerately doped n-Si:As, degenerately doped n-Si:B, degenerately doped
n-Si, degenerately doped n-Si:As, and degenerately doped n-Si:B. Other conductive
electrodes may be implemented to meet the criteria of a particular application.
For    photoelectrochemical     reductions,   the   electrode    may     be  a   p-type
semiconductor, such as p-GaAs, p-GaP, p-InN, p-InP, p-CdTe, p-GaInP 2 and p-Si, or
an n-type semiconductor, such as n-GaAs, n-GaP, n-InN, n-InP, n-CdTe, n-GaInP 2
                                           14

and n-Si. Other semiconductor electrodes may be implemented to meet the
criteria of a particular application including, but not limited to, CoS, MoS 2 , TiB,
WS 2 , SnS, Ag 2S, CoP 2 , Fe3 P, Mn 3 P2 , MoP, Ni2Si, MoSi 2 , WSi 2 , CoSi 2 , Ti 4 0 7 , SnO 2 , GaAs,
GaSb, Ge, and CdSe.
[0050]Catholyte may include a pH range from 1 to 12, and more specifically from 4
to 10. The pH may be a function of the desired product and whether any catalysts
are utilized in operation of the electrochemical cell.                Preferably, catholyte and
catalysts may be selected to prevent corrosion at the electrochemical cell.
Catholyte may include homogeneous catalysts such as pyridine, 2-picoline, and the
like.   Catholyte electrolytes may include alkali metal bicarbonates, carbonates,
sulfates, phosphates, borates, and hydroxides.                Non-aqueous solvents, such as
propylene carbonate, methanesulfonic acid, methanol, and other ionic conducting
liquids may be used rather than water. The electrolyte may comprise one or more
of Na2 SO4 , KCI, NaNO 3 , NaCl, NaF, NaClO 4 , KClO 4 , K2 SiO 3 , CaCl 2 , a guanidinium
cation,    a H cation,         an   alkali    metal    cation,    an     ammonium            cation,    an
alkylammonium cation, a tetraalkyl ammonium cation, a halide anion, an alkyl
amine, a borate, a carbonate, a guanidinium derivative, a nitrite, a nitrate, a
phosphate, a polyphosphate, a perchlorate, a silicate, a sulfate, and a hydroxide.
[0051]The catholyte may comprise a homogeneous catalyst.                                 Homogeneous
catalysts comprising aromatic heterocyclic amines may include, but are not limited
to, unsubstituted and substituted pyridines and imidazoles. Substituted pyridines
and imidazoles may include, but are not limited to mono and disubstituted
pyridines and imidazoles. For example, suitable catalysts may include straight
chain or branched chain lower alkyl (e.g.,                  C1 -C10 ) mono and disubstituted
compounds such as 2-methylpyridine, 4-tertbutyl pyridine, 2,6 dimethylpyridine
(2,6-lutidine); bipyridines, such as 4,4'-bipyridine; amino-substituted pyridines,
such as 4- dimethylamino pyridine; and hydroxyl-substituted pyridines (e.g., 4
hydroxy-pyridine) and substituted or unsubstituted quinoline or isoquinolines. The
catalysts may also suitably substituted or unsubstituted dinitrogen heterocyclic
amines, such as pyrazine, pyridazine and pyrimidine. Other catalysts generally
                                                 15

include azoles, imidazoles, indoles, oxazoles, thiazoles, substituted species and
complex multi-ring amines such as adenine, pterin, pteridine, benzimidazole,
phenonthroline and the like.
[0052]In    one embodiment,      a catholyte/anolyte flow    rate may    include a
catholyte/anolyte cross sectional area flow rate range such as 2 - 3,000 gpm/ft 2 or
more ( 0.0076 - 11.36 m3/m 2 ). A flow velocity range may be 0.002 to 20 ft/sec (
0.0006 to 6.1 m/sec). Operation of the electrochemical cell catholyte at a higher
operating pressure allows more dissolved carbon dioxide to dissolve in the aqueous
solution. Typically, electrochemical cells can operate at pressures up to about 20
to   30 psig in    multi-cell stack designs,    although with   modifications,   the
electrochemical cells may operate at up to 100 psig. The electrochemical cell may
operate anolyte at the same pressure range to minimize the pressure differential
on a separator or membrane separating the cathode and the anode.             Special
electrochemical designs may be employed to operate electrochemical units at
higher operating pressures up to about 60 to 100 atmospheres or greater, which is
in the liquid CO2 and supercritical CO2 operating range.
[0053]The catholyte may be operated at a temperature range of -10 to 95 'C,
more preferably 5 - 60 C. The lower temperature will be limited by the catholytes
used and their freezing points. In general, the lower the temperature, the higher
the solubility of CO2 in the aqueous solution phase of the catholyte, and would
help in obtaining higher conversion and current efficiencies. The drawback is that
the operating electrochemical cell voltages may be higher, so there is an
optimization that would be done to produce the chemicals at the lowest operating
cost.    In addition, the catholyte may require cooling, so an external heat
exchanger may be employed, flowing the catholyte through the heat exchanger
and   using cooling water to remove the heat and control the               catholyte
temperature.
[0054]The anolyte operating temperatures may be in the same ranges as the
ranges for the catholyte, and may be in a range of 00 C to 95'C.    In addition, the
                                         16

anolyte may require cooling, so an external heat exchanger may be employed,
flowing the anolyte through the heat exchanger and using cooling water to remove
the heat and control the anolyte temperature.
[0055] Electrochemical cells may include various types of designs. These designs
may include Zero Gap, flow-through with a recirculating catholyte electrolyte with
various high surface area cathode materials. The electrochemical cell may include
flooded co-current packed and trickle bed designs with the various high surface
area cathode materials.      Also, bipolar stack cell designs and high pressure cell
designs may also be employed for the electrochemical cells.
[0056]Anodes may include electrocatalytic coatings applied to the surfaces of the
base anode structure.        For example, for acid anolytes and oxidizing water
generating oxygen, the preferred electrocatalytic coatings may include precious
metal oxides such as ruthenium and iridium oxides, as well as platinum and gold
and their combinations as metals and oxides on valve metal substrates such as
titanium, tantalum, zirconium, or niobium.           For bromine and iodine anode
chemistry, carbon and graphite are particularly suitable for use as anodes.
Polymeric bonded carbon materials may also be used.              For other anolytes
comprising alkaline or hydroxide electrolytes, anodes may include carbon, cobalt
oxides, stainless steels, transition metals, and their alloys and combinations. High
surface area anode structures that may be used which would help promote the
reactions at the anode surfaces. The high surface area anode base material may
be in a reticulated form composed of fibers, sintered powder, sintered screens,
and the like, and may be sintered, welded, or mechanically connected to a current
distributor back plate that is commonly used in bipolar cell assemblies.           In
addition, the high surface area reticulated anode structure may also contain areas
where additional applied catalysts on and near the electrocatalytic active surfaces
of the anode surface structure to enhance and promote reactions that may occur
in the bulk solution away from the anode surface such as the reaction between
bromine and the carbon based reactant being introduced into the anolyte. The
anode structure may be gradated, so that the density of the may vary in the
                                           17

vertical or horizontal direction to allow the easier escape of gases from the anode
structure. In this gradation, there may be a distribution of particles of materials
mixed in the anode structure that may contain catalysts for the bulk reaction of
the carbon based reactant.
[0057]The separator, also referred as a membrane, between the cathode and the
anode, may include cation ion exchange type membranes.               Cation ion exchange
membranes which have an high rejection efficiency to anions may be preferred.
Examples of such cation ion exchange membranes may include perfluorinated
sulfonic acid based ion exchange membranes such as DuPont Nafion brand
unreinforced types N117 and N120 series, more preferred PTFE fiber reinforced
N324 and N424 types, and similar related membranes manufactured by Japanese
companies under the supplier trade names such as AGC Engineering (Asahi Glass)
under their trade name Flemion*. Other multi-layer perfluorinated ion exchange
membranes used in the chlor alkali industry may have a bilayer construction of a
sulfonic acid based membrane layer bonded to a carboxylic acid based membrane
layer, which efficiently operates with an anolyte and catholyte above a pH of
about 2 or higher.      These membranes may have an higher anion rejection
efficiency. These are sold by DuPont under their Nafion* trademark as the N900
series, such as the N90209, N966, N982, and the 2000 series, such as the N2010,
N2020, and N2030 and all of their types and subtypes. Hydrocarbon based
membranes, which are made from of various cation ion exchange materials can
also be used if the anion rejection is not as desirable, such as those sold by Sybron
under their trade name Ionac*, Engineering (Asahi Glass) under their trade name
Selemion*, and Tokuyama Soda, among others on the market. Ceramic based
membranes may also be employed, including those that are called under the
general name of NASICON (for sodium super-ionic conductors) which are chemically
stable over a wide pH range for various chemicals and selectively transports
sodium ions, the composition is Na1 +xZr 2SixP3 -xO1 2 , and well as other ceramic based
conductive membranes based on titanium oxides, zirconium oxides and yttrium
oxides, and beta aluminum oxides. Alternative membranes that may be used are
those with    different   structural   backbones     such    as  polyphosphazene     and
                                           18

sulfonated polyphosphazene membranes in addition to crown ether based
membranes. Preferably, the membrane or separator is chemically resistant to
the anolyte and catholyte. Preferably, the membrane or separator is chemically
resistant to the anolyte and catholyte and operates at temperatures of less than
600 degrees C, and more preferably less than 500 degrees C.
[0058]A catholyte or an anolyte may comprise an aqueous solvent, a non-aqueous
solvent, or a mixture of solvents containing one or more of water as well as protic
or aprotic polar solvents such as methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, propylene
carbonate,     ethylene     carbonate,    dimethyl    carbonate,    diethyl  carbonate,
dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide,         acetonitrile, acetone, tetrahydrofuran,
N,N-dimethylacetaminde,        dimethoxyethane, diethylene glycol dimethyl ester,
butyrolnitrile,   1,2-difluorobenzene,      y-butyrolactone,     N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
sulfolane, 1,4-dioxane, nitrobenzene, nitromethane, acetic anhydride, and ionic
liquids. An aqueous solvent comprises at least 5% water. A non-aqueous solvent
comprises less than 5%water.
[0059]The rate of the generation of the second product formed in the second
region from     the anode       reaction,  such as the     oxidation of methanol      to
formaldehyde, is contemplated to be proportional to the applied Faradaic current
to the electrochemical cell. The rate of the input or feed of the carbon based
reactant into the second region should then be fed in proportion to the applied
Faradaic current or amperage rate to the electrochemical cell. The anode reaction
efficiency would determine the maximum theoretical formation in moles of the
alcohol oxidation product at the applied current.          It is contemplated that the
molar ratio of alcohol feed to the theoretical moles of potentially formed alcohol
oxidation product would be in a range of 500:1 to 2:1, and preferably in the range
of 200:1 to 10:1, where the alcohol is in excess of the theoretical required for the
anode reaction.      In this contemplated mode of operation, there is an excess of
alcohol in the anolyte during operation.       The operation of an extractor and its
selected separation method-for example fractional distillation--the actual products
produced, and the selectivity of the wanted reaction would determine the
                                            19

optimum molar ratio of the carbon based reactant to the applied Faradaic current
rate applied in the second region.     Any of the unreacted components could be
recycled to the second region.
[0060]Similarly, the rate of the generation of the formed electrochemical carbon
dioxide reduction product in the first (catholyte) compartment, such as CO, is
contemplated to be proportional to the applied current to the electrochemical
cell. The rate of the input or feed of the carbon dioxide source into the first
compartment should be fed in a proportion to the applied current. The cathode
reaction efficiency would determine the maximum theoretical formation in moles
of the carbon dioxide reduction product at the applied current. It is contemplated
that the ratio of carbon dioxide feed to the theoretical moles of potentially
formed carbon dioxide reduction product based on the applied current, would be
in a range of 100:1 to 2:1, and preferably in the range of 50:1 to 5:1, where the
carbon dioxide is in excess of the theoretical required for the cathode reaction.
The carbon dioxide excess would then be separated in the extractor and recycled
back to the second compartment.
[0061]In the present disclosure, the methods disclosed may be implemented as
sets of instructions or software readable by a device.     Further, it is understood
that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed are examples
of exemplary approaches.      Based upon design preferences, it is understood that
the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the method can be rearranged while
remaining within the disclosed subject matter. The accompanying method claims
present elements of the various steps in a sample order, and are not necessarily
meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.
                                          20

[0062] It is believed that the present disclosure and many of its attendant
advantages will be understood by the foregoing description, and it will be apparent
that various changes may be made in the form, construction and arrangement of
the components without departing from the disclosed subject matter or without
sacrificing all of its material advantages.     The form described is merely
explanatory, and it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and
include such changes.
                                        21

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A method for producing a first product from             a first region of an
 5 electrochemical cell having a cathode and a second product from a second region of
   the electrochemical cell having an anode, the method comprising the steps of:
                 contacting the first region with a catholyte comprising carbon dioxide;
                  contacting the second region with an anolyte, the anolyte comprising
   an alcohol; and
10               applying an electrical potential between the anode and the cathode
   sufficient to produce the first product recoverable from the first region and the
   second product recoverable from the second region.
   2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the anolyte is free of halide ions.
15
   3.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the alcohol includes at least one
   of methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, phenol, 1
   butanol, 2-butanol, isopropanol, benzyl alcohol, allyl alcohol, a glycol, and a polyol.
20 4.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the second product includes an
   aldehyde.
   5.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the second product includes a
   carboxylic acid.
25
   6.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the second product includes
   carboxylic acid and an aldehyde.
   7.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the second product includes at
30 least one of formaldehyde, formic acid, acetaldehyde, acetic acid, glycolaldehyde,
   glyoxal, glycolic acid glyoxylic acid, oxalic acid, glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone,
   2,3 dihydroxypropionic acid, polyol-aldehyde, polyol-ketone, polyol-carboxylic acid,
   acetone,    propionaldehyde,     propanoic    acid,   butyraldehyde,   butanoic  acid,
                                              22

   butanone,     hydroquinone,      1,2-dihydroxybenzene,     2,5-cyclohexadiene- 1-one,
   benzoquinone, maleic acid, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid,         acrolein,   and acrylic
   acid.
 5 8.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the first product includes at least
   one of carbon monoxide, formic acid, formaldehyde, methanol, oxalate, oxalic
   acid, glyoxylic acid, glycolic acid, glyoxal, glycolaldehyde, ethylene glycol, acetic
   acid, acetaldehyde, ethanol, ethylene, methane, ethane, lactic acid, propanoic
   acid, acetone, isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1,2-propylene glycol, propane, 1-butanol,
10 and 2-butanol.
   9.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the cathode and the anode are
   separated by an ion permeable barrier.
15 10.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the ion permeable barrier includes
   one of a polymeric or inorganic ceramic-based ion permeable barrier.
   11.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the ion permeable barrier includes
   at least one of a solid polymer conductor electrolyte material and a perfluorinated
20 sulfonic acid based membrane, a sodium super-conducting ionic conductor type
   ceramics or zirconium-yttria and beta-alumina based ceramics.
   12.    A method for producing a first product from            a first region of an
   electrochemical cell having a cathode and a second product from a second region of
25 the electrochemical cell having an anode, the method comprising the steps of:
                 receiving a feed of carbon dioxide and methanol at the first region of
   the electrochemical cell;
                 contacting the first region with a catholyte comprising carbon dioxide
   and methanol;
30               receiving  a feed     of methanol     at the   second   region  of  the
   electrochemical cell;
                 contacting the second region with an anolyte comprising methanol;
   and
                                             23

                 applying an electrical potential between the anode and the cathode
   sufficient to produce the first product recoverable from the first region and the
   second product recoverable from the second region.
 5 13.     The method according to claim 12, wherein the anolyte is free of halide ions.
   14.     The method according to claim 12, wherein the first product includes at least
   one of carbon monoxide, formic acid, formaldehyde, methanol, oxalate, oxalic
   acid, glyoxylic acid, glycolic acid, glyoxal, glycolaldehyde, ethylene glycol, acetic
10 acid, acetaldehyde, ethanol, ethylene, methane, ethane, lactic acid, propanoic
   acid, acetone, isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1,2-propylene glycol, propane, 1-butanol,
   and 2-butanol.
   15.     The method according to claim 12, wherein the second product includes at
15 least one of formaldehyde, formic acid, acetaldehyde, acetic acid, glycolaldehyde,
   glyoxal, glycolic acid glyoxylic acid, oxalic acid, glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone,
   2,3 dihydroxypropionic acid, polyol-aldehyde, polyol-ketone, polyol-carboxylic acid,
   acetone,    propionaldehyde,     propanoic    acid,   butyraldehyde,    butanoic  acid,
   butanone,     hydroquinone,      1,2-dihydroxybenzene,       2,5-cyclohexadiene- 1-one,
20 benzoquinone, maleic acid, benzaldehyde, benzoic acid,           acrolein,  and acrylic
   acid.
   16.     The method according to claim 12, wherein the cathode and the anode are
   separated by an ion permeable barrier.
25
   17.     The method according to claim 16, wherein the ion permeable barrier
   includes one of a polymeric or inorganic ceramic-based ion permeable barrier.
   18.     The method according to claim 16, wherein the ion permeable barrier
30 includes at least one of a solid polymer conductor electrolyte material and a
   perfluorinated sulfonic acid based membrane, a sodium super-conducting ionic
   conductor type ceramics or zirconium-yttria and beta-alumina based ceramics.
                                              24

   19.    A system for electrochemical co-production of products, comprising:
          an electrochemical cell including:
                 a first region;
                 a cathode associated with the first region;
 5               a second region;
                 an anode associated with the second region; and
                 a separator for selectively controlling a flow of ions between the first
   region and the second region;
          a carbon dioxide source, the carbon dioxide source in flow communication
10 with the first region to supply carbon dioxide to the first region;
          an alcohol source, the alcohol source in flow communication with the second
   region to supply alcohol to the second region;
          an energy source for applying a current across the anode and the cathode,
   wherein when current is applied, a first product is recoverable from the first region
15 and a second product is recoverable from the second region.
   20.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the second region is free of halide
   ions.
20 21.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the alcohol includes at least one
   of methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, phenol, 1
   butanol, 2-butanol, isopropanol, benzyl alcohol, allyl alcohol, a glycol, and a polyol.
   22.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the second product recoverable
25 from the second region includes an aldehyde.
   23.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the second product recoverable
   from the second region includes a carboxylic acid.
30 24.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the second product recoverable
   from the second region includes carboxylic acid and an aldehyde.
                                             25

   25.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the second product recoverable
   from the second region includes at least one of formaldehyde, formic acid,
   acetaldehyde, acetic acid, glycolaldehyde, glyoxal, glycolic acid glyoxylic acid,
   oxalic acid, glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone, 2,3 dihydroxypropionic acid, polyol
 5 aldehyde,    polyol-ketone,    polyol-carboxylic   acid,  acetone,    propionaldehyde,
   propanoic acid, butyraldehyde,        butanoic acid, butanone,      hydroquinone,   1,2
   dihydroxybenzene,       2,5-cyclohexadiene-1-one,      benzoquinone,     maleic    acid,
   benzaldehyde, benzoic acid, acrolein, and acrylic acid.
10 26.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the first product recoverable from
   the first region     includes at least one of carbon monoxide,            formic acid,
   formaldehyde, methanol, oxalate, oxalic acid, glyoxylic acid, glycolic acid, glyoxal,
   glycolaldehyde, ethylene glycol, acetic acid, acetaldehyde, ethanol, ethylene,
   methane, ethane, lactic acid, propanoic acid, acetone, isopropanol, 1-propanol,
15 1,2-propylene glycol, propane, 1-butanol, and 2-butanol.
   27.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the separator selectively controls
   a flow of ions between the first region and the second region.
20 28.    The system according to claim 19, wherein the catholyte comprises one or
   more of water, methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, propylene carbonate, ethylene
   carbonate,      dimethyl     carbonate,    diethyl    carbonate,     dimethylsulfoxide,
   dimethylformamide,          acetonitrile,     acetone,      tetrahydrofuran,       NN
   dimethylacetaminde,       dimethoxyethane,     diethylene    glycol   dimethyl    ester,
25 butyrolnitrile,   1,2-difluorobenzene,     y-butyrolactone,    N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
   sulfolane, 1,4-dioxane, nitrobenzene, nitromethane, acetic anhydride, ionic liquids.
   29.    The system according to claim 27, wherein the ion permeable barrier
   includes an ion permeable barrier.
30
   30.    The system according to claim 27, wherein the ion permeable barrier
   includes at least one of a solid polymer conductor electrolyte material and a
                                              26

perfluorinated sulfonic acid based membrane, a sodium super-conducting ionic
conductor type ceramics.
                                     27

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                           100
                                                             112
<removed-apn>
                          First                      Second
                 110    Product                      Product         Second
                        Extractor                    Extractor       Product
                                          102
                                                120                      115
               First         116                      118
                                    C            A
              Product               A            N
                                    T            O
                                    H            D
                  113               O            E
                                    D
                            122     E                  124
                                        Energy
                                        Source
                                           114
                            CO2
                           Source                Carbon-
                                                  Based            104
                                                 Reactant
                                  106
                                                  Source
                                           FIG. 1A

                                               <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                         100
                                                           112
<removed-apn>
                          First                    Second
                110                                                Second
                        Product                    Product
                                                                   Product
                        Extractor                  Extractor
                                        102
                                              120                      115
               First         116                    118
                                    C          A
              Product               A          N
                                    T          O
                                    H          D
                  113               O          E
                                    D
                            122     E                124
                                    Energy
                                    Source
                                         114
                           CO2
                          Source               Carbon-
                                                Based            104
                                               Reactant
                              106
                                                Source
                                         FIG. 1B

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                          200
<removed-apn>           210                                           212
              Acetic Acid                                  Formaldehyde
                                       102
                                             120
                             116   C          A    118
                                   A          N
                                   T          O
                                   H          D
                                   O          E
                                   D
                            122    E                124
                                   Energy
                   CO2
                  Source           Source
                                        114
                     106
                                              Carbon-
                                               Based
                                              Reactant    104
                                               Source
                                         FIG. 2

                                                           <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      332                                           300
                                CO2
                                            330
                 334                                310
              H2O               Reactor       H2
                                   CO                                                     312
                                        336 H2                                Formaldehyde
                       Reactor                            102
                                                                120
                                              116    C           A    118
                          338
                                                     A           N
                                                     T           O
              Product                                H           D
                                                     O           E
                                                     D
                                             122     E                 124
                    340
                                                         Energy
                                                         Source
                                                                114
                                                     Methanol
                                                                        304
                                                    FIG. 3

                                                          <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      400
                                    432
                              H2O
                                          430
                434                               410
              CO2             Reactor       CO                                   412
                                                                       Formaldehyde
                                 H2
                                      436 CO
                      Reactor                             102
                                                                120
                                            116       C         A     118
                        438
                                                      A         N
                                                      T         O
                                                      H         D
                                                      O         E
                    Product                           D
                                           122        E                124
                        440
                                                          Energy
                                                          Source
                                                                114
                                          CO2
                                                                 Methanol      404
                                                440
                                                  FIG. 4

                                      <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                 500
<removed-apn>
              510 contacting the first region with a catholyte
              comprising carbon dioxide and an alcohol
              520 contacting the second region with an
              anolyte comprising the alcohol
              530 applying an electrical potential between the
              anode and the cathode sufficient to produce the
              first product recoverable from the first region
              and the second product recoverable from the
              second region
                                   FIG. 5

                                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                          600
<removed-apn>
              610 receiving a feed of carbon dioxide and methanol at the first
              region of the electrochemical cell
              620 contacting first region with a catholyte comprising carbon
              dioxide and methanol
              630 receiving a feed of methanol at the second region
              640 contacting the second region with an anolyte comprising
              methanol
              650 applying an electrical potential between the anode and the
              cathode sufficient to produce a first product recoverable from
              the first region and a second product recoverable from the
              second region
                                         FIG. 6

