Abstract
The present invention is directed to methods to differentiate pluripotent stem cells. In
particular, the present invention provides methods of characterization of cells differentiated into
cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage utilizing unique
surface markers. The present invention also provides methods to enrich or sort cells
expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage. The present invention
also provides methods to deplete cells that may contaminate populations of cells expressing
markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage formed by the methods of the
present invention, thereby reducing the incidence of tumor formation in vivo following
transplantation.

    METHODS FOR PURIFYING CELLS DERIVED FROM PLURIPOTENT STEM
                                             CELLS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This application claims priority to provisional application serial number 61/309,193,
        filed March 1, 2010.
[0001a] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
        2015268664, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The present invention is directed to methods to differentiate pluripotent stem cells. In
        particular, the present invention provides methods of characterization of cells
        differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
        lineage utilizing unique surface markers. The present invention also provides methods
        to enrich or sort cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
        lineage. The present invention also provides methods to deplete cells that may
        contaminate populations of cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
        endocrine lineage formed by the methods of the present invention, thereby reducing
        the incidence of tumor formation in vivo following transplantation.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Pluripotent stem cells have the potential to produce differentiated cell types
        comprising all somatic tissues and organs. Treatment of diabetes using cell therapy is
        facilitated by the production of large numbers of cells that are able to function similarly
        to human islets. Accordingly, there is need for producing these cells derived from
        pluripotent stem cells, as well as reliable methods for purifying such cells.
[0004]  Proteins and other cell surface markers found on pluripotent stem cell and cell
        populations derived from pluripotent stem cells are useful in preparing reagents for the
        separation and isolation of these populations. Cell surface markers are also useful in
        the further characterization of these cells.
                                               - 1-

[0005] In one example, W02009131568 discloses a method of purifying a gut endoderm cell
       comprising: a) exposing a population of cells derived from pluripotent stem cells
       comprising a gut endoderm cell to a ligand which binds to a cell surface marker
       expressed on the gut endoderm cell, wherein said cell surface marker is selected from
       the group consisting of CD49c, CD99, CDl65, and CD334; and b) separating the gut
       endoderm cell from cells derived from pluripotent stem cells which do not bind to the
       ligand, thereby purifying said gut endoderm cell.
100061 In another example, W02010000415 discloses the use of an antibody that binds to the
       antigen TNAP, or functional fragments of the antibody, alone or in combination with
       an antibody that binds to CD56, or functional fragments of the antibody, for the
       isolation of stem cells having adipocytic, chondrocytic and pancreatic differentiation
       potential.
[0007] In another example, US7371576 discloses the discovery of a selective cell surface
       marker that permits the selection of a unique subset of pancreatic stems cells having a
       high propensity to differentiate into insulin producing cells or into insulin producing
       cell aggregates.
100081 In another example, US7585672 discloses a method to enrich a culture derived from
       human embryonic stem cells for cells of endoderm and pancreatic lineages, the
       method comprising the steps of(a) culturing intact colonies of human embryonic stem
       cells to form whole, intact embryoid bodies surrounded by visceral yolk sac (VYS)
       cells, wherein the human embryonic stem cells express Oct-4, surface stage-specific
       embryonic antigen-3/4 (SSEA 3/4) and epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM);
       (b)culturing the enbryoid bodies of step (a) under conditions that permit the
       embryoid body cells to differentiate into a cell population containing cells of the
       endoderm and pancreatic lineages; (c)dispersing the cell population of step (b) into
       single cells; (d) selecting against the expression of SSEA 3/4 positive cells to remove
       undifferentiated cells from the cells of stop (c); (e) selecting against the expression of
       SSEA-l positive cells to remove VYS cells from the remaining cells of step (d); and
       (f) selecting from among the remaining cells of step (e)for the expression of EpCAM
       positive cells to enrich for cells of endoderm and pancreatic lineages.
                                                    2

[0009]  US7585672 also discloses a method to enrich a culture derived from human
        embryonic stem cells for cells of endoderm and pancreatic lineages, the method
        comprising the steps of (a) culturing intact colonies of human embryonic stem cells to
        form whole, intact embryoid bodies surrounded by visceral yolk sac (VYS) cells,
        wherein the human embryonic stem cells express Oct-4, surface stage-specific
        embryonic antigen-3/4 (SSEA 3/4) and epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM);
        (b)culturing the embryoid bodies of step (a) under conditions that permit the
        embryoid body cells to differentiate into a cell population containing cells of the
        endoderm and pancreatic lineages; (c) treating the cell population of step (b) with an
        effective amount of fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGFI 0); and (d)dispersing the cell
        population of step (c) into single cells enriched for cells of endoderm and pancreatic
        lineages (e) selecting against the expression of SSEA-3/4 positive cells to remove
        undifferentiated stem cells from the cells of step (d); (f) selecting against the
        expression of SSEA-1 positive cells to remove VYS cells from the cells of step (e);
        and (g) selecting from among the remaining cells of step (f) for the expression of
        EpCAM positive cells to enrich for cells of endoderm and pancreatic lineages.
[00010] US7585672 also discloses an enrichment method for the creation of a stem cell
        derived cell population which does not have tumorigenic capability comprising the
        steps of (a) culturing intact colonies of human embryonic stem cells to form whole,
        intact embryoid bodies surrounded by visceral yolk sac (VYS) cells, wherein the
        human embryonic stem cells express Oct-4, surface stage-specific embryonic antigen
        3/4 (SSEA 3/4) and epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM); (b) culturing the
        embryoid bodies of step (a) under conditions that permit the embryoid body cells to
        differentiate into a cell population containing cells of the endoderm and pancreatic
        lineages; (c) dispersing the cell population of step (b) into single cells; (d)selecting
        against the expression of SSEA 3/4 positive cells to remove undifferentiated cells
        from the cells of step (c); (c) selecting against the expression of SSEA-1 positive cells
        to remove VYS cells from the cells of step (d);and (f) selecting from among the
        remaining cells of step (e) for the expression of EpCAM positive cells, the resulting
        cells not forming teratomas when injected in immunocompromised mice.
10010]  In another example, US20050260749 discloses a method to enrich a culture derived
        from stem cells for cells of endodemn and pancreatic lineages, the method comprising
                                                      3

       the steps of culturing stem cells into the formation of embryoid bodies; and selecting
       among embryoid bodies for the expression of the species appropriate cell surface
       stage-specific embryonic and culturing only the embryoid bodies which do not
       express cell surface stage-specific antigen for differentiation into endoderm and
       pancreatic cells.
100111 In another example, US20100003749 discloses an isolated pancreatic stem cell
       population, wherein the pancreatic stem cell population is enriched for
       CD133+CD49f+ pancreatic stem cells.
[00121 US20100003749 further discloses the isolation of pancreatic stem cells from primary
       pancreatic tissue occurs by selecting from a population of pancreatic cells, pancreatic
       derived cells, or gastrointestinal-derived cells for cells that are CDl33+, CD49f+, or
       CDI 33+CD49f+; removing the cells that are CD15+, wherein the remaining cells are
       CD 15-; introducing the remaining cells to aserum-free culture medium containing
       one or more growth factors; and proliferating the remaining cells in the culture
       medium.
100131 In another example, Dorrell et a state: "We have developed a novel panel of cell
       surface markers for the isolation and study of all major cell types of the human
       pancreas. Hybridomas were selected after subtractive immunization of Balb/C mice
       with intact or dissociated human islets and assessed for cell-type specificity and cell
       surface reactivity by inunohistochenistry and flow cytometry. Antibodies were
       identified by specific binding of surface antigens on islet (panendocrine or a-specific)
       and nonislet pancreatic cell subsets (exocrine and duct). These antibodies were used
       individually or in combination to isolate populations of a, p, exocrine, or duct cells
       from primary human pancreas by FACS and to characterize the detailed cell
       composition of human islet preparations. They were also employed to show that
       human islet expansion cultures originated from nonendocrine cells and that insulin
       expression levels could be increased to up to 1%of normal islet cells by
       subpopulation sorting and overexpression of the transcription factors Pdx-l and ngn3,
       an improvement over previous results with this culture system. These methods permit
       the analysis and isolation of functionally distinct pancreatic cell populations with
                                                    4

       potential for cell therapy." (Stem Cell Research, Volume 1, Issue 3, September 2008,
       Pages 155-156).
[0014] In another example, Sugiyama et at state: "We eventually identified two antigens,
       called CD133 and CD49f, useful for purifying NGN3+ cells from mice. CD 133 (also
       called prominin-1) is a transmembrane protein of unknown function and a known
       marker of haematopoietic progenitor and neural stem cells. CD49f is also called a6
       integrin, and a receptor subunit for laminin. By combining antibodies that recognize
       CD 133 and CD49f, we fractionated four distinct pancreatic cell populations.
       Immunostaining and RT-PCR revealed that the CD49fhigh CD133+ cell population
       ('fraction 1', 50% of input) comprised mainly differentiated exocrine cells that express
       CarbA. The CD49flow CD133- fraction ('fraction 111, 10% of input) included
       hormone+ cells expressing endocrine products like insulin and glucagon. By contrast,
       the CD49flow CD133+ fraction (called 'fraction If, 13% of input) contained NGN3+
       cells, but not hormone+ cells. Approximately 8%of fraction II cells produced
       immunostainable NGN3. In the CD49f- CD133- fraction ('fraction IV, 25% of
       input), we did not detect cells expressing NGN3, CarbA or islet hormones."
       (Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, Volume 10, Issue s4, Pages 179-185).
100151 In another example, Fujikawa et al state: "When CD45-TERI 19- side-scatterlow
       GFPhigh cells were sorted, a-fetoprotein-positive immature endoderm-characterized
       cells, having high growth potential, were present in this population. Clonal analysis
       and electron microscopic evaluation revealed that each single cell of this population
       could differentiate not only into hepatocytes, but also into biliary epithelial cells,
       showing their bilineage differentiation activity. When surface markers were analyzed,
       they were positive for Ilntegrin-a6 and -a1, but negative for c-Kit and Thyl. L."
       (Journal ofHepalogy, Vol 39, pages 162-170).
[0016] In another example, Zhao et al state: "In this study, we first identified N-cadherin as
       a surface marker of hepatic endoderm cells for purification from hES cell-derivates,
       and generated hepatic progenitor cells from purified hepatic endoderm cells by co
       culture with murine embryonic stromal feeders (STO) cells. These hepatic progenitor
       cells could expand and be passaged for more than 100 days. Interestingly, they co
       expressed the early hepatic marker AFP and biliary lineage marker KRT7, suggesting
                                                    5

       that they are a common ancestor of both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. Moreover,
       these progenitor cells could be expanded extensively while still maintaining the
       bipotential of differentiation into hepatocyte-like cells and cholangiocye-like cells, as
       verified by both gene expression and functional assays. Therefore, this work offers a
       new in vitro model for studying liver development, as well as a new source for cell
       therapy based on hepatic progenitors." (PLoS ONE 4(7): e6468.
       doi:10. 1371/joumal.pone.0006468).
100171 In another example, Cai et at state: "To further increase the PDXI+ cell purity, we
       sorted the activin A-induced cells using CXCR4 ..., a marker for ES cell-derived
       endodermal cells. Sorting with CXCR4 enriched the endodermal cell population
       because nearly all the cells in the CXCR4+ population were positive for the
       endodermal cell marker SOX17, and >90% of the cells were positive for FOXA2."
       (Journal of Molecular Cell Biology Advance Access originally published online on
       November 12, 2009. Journal of Molecular Cell Biology 2010 2(l):50-60;
       doi: 10. 1093/jmcb/mjp037).
[00181 In another example, Koblas et al state: "We found that population of human CD 133
       positive pancreatic cells contains endocrine progenitors expressing neurogenin-3 and
       cells expressing human telomerase, ABCG2, Oct-3/4, Nanog, and Rex-1, markers of
       pluripotent stem cells. These cells were able to differentiate into insulin-producing
       cells in vitro and secreted C-peptide in a glucose-dependent manner. Based on our
       results, we suppose that the CD133 molecule represents another cell surface marker
       suitable for identification and isolation of pancreatic endocrine progenitors".
       (Transplant Proc. 2008 Mar;40(2):415-8)
100191 In another example, Sugiyama et al state: "we found CD133 was expressed by
       NGN3+ cells. CD133 appeared to be localized to the apical membrane of pancreatic
       ductal epithelial cells." (PNAS2007 104:175-180; published online before print
       December 26, 2006, doi: 10.1073/pnas.0609490104).
100201 In another example, Kobayashi etaestate: "The embryonic pancreatic epithelium,
       and later the ductal epithelium, is known to give rise to the endocrine and exocrine
       cells of the developing pancreas, but no specific surface marker for these cells has
                                                     6

       been identified. Here, we utilized Dolichos Biflorus Agglutinin (DBA) as a specific
       marker of these epithelial cells in developing mouse pancreas. From the results of an
       immunofluomscence study using fluorescein-DBA and pancreatic specific cell
       markers, we found that DBA detects specifically epithelial, but neither differentiating
       endocrine cells nor acinar cells. We further applied this marker in an
       immunomagnetic separation system (Dynabead system) to purify these putative multi
       potential cells from a mixed developing pancreatic cell population. This procedure
       could be applied to study differentiation and cell lineage selections in the developing
       pancreas, and also may be applicable to selecting pancreatic precursor cells for
       potential cellular engineering." (Biochemical and Biophysical Research
       Communications, Volume 293, Issue 2, 3 May 2002, Pages 691-697).
100211 Identification of markers expressed by cells derived from pluripotent stem cells would
       expand the understanding of these cells, aid in their identification in vivo and in vito,
       and would enable their positive enrichment in vino for study and use. Thus, there
       remains a need for tools that are useful in isolating and characterizing cells derived
       from pluripotent stem cells, in particular, cells expressing markers characteristic of
       the pancreatic endocrine lineage.
       SUMMARY
100221 In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method to differentiate a
       population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, comprising the steps of:
       a. Culturing a population of pluripotent stem cells,
       b. Differentiating the population of pluripotent stem cells into apopulation of cells
           expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage,
       c. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           definitive endoderm lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
                                                    7

       d. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage, and
       e. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           pancreatic endoderm lineage into a population cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage.
10023] In one embodiment, the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage is transplanted into an animal, wherein the cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage form insulin
       producing cells. In one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin
       producing cells is enhanced by enriching the population for cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage prior to transplantation.
10024] In one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin producing cells is
       determined by measuring the time taken for the expression of C-peptide to reach
       detectable levels following transplantation.
10025] In an alternate embodiment, the enrichment decreases the ability of the transplanted
       cells to form teratomas following transplantation.
       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
100261 Figure I shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), NKX6J (panel d), NKX2.2 (panel e), and PAX4 (panel f) in populations of
       CD56 4CD13, CD56CD13^ and CD56CD13' cells, as detected via real-time PCR.
       Fold expression is shown relative to undifferentiated H I embryonic stem cells.
100271 Figure 2 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), NKX6.1 (panel d), NKX2.2 (panel e), and PAX4 (panel f), as detected via real
       time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using an antibody to CD133. Fold expression
       is shown relative to undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
100281 Figure 3 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), and NKX6.1 (panel d), as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells
                                                    8

       sorted using an antibody to CD49c. Fold expression is shown relative to
       undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
[0029] Figure 4 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), NKX6.1 (panel d), insulin (panel e), and glucagon (panel f), as detected via real
       time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using antibodies to CD56 and CDI5. Fold
       expression is shown relative to undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
[0030] Figure 5 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), NKX6.1 (panel d), NKX2.2 (panel e), PAX-4 (panel f), glucagon (panel g) and
       insulin (panel h) as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using an
       antibody to CD15. Fold expression is shown relative to undifferentiated H I
       embryonic stem cells..
[0031] Figure 6 shows the expression ofNEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDX I (panel
       c), NKX6.1 (panel d), NKX2.2 (panel e), insulin (panel f), and glucagon (panel g) as
       detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using antibodies to CD56
       and CD57. Fold expression is shown relative to undifferentiated H1 embryonic stem
       cells.
[0032] Figure 7 shows the expression of ZICI (panel a), albumin (panel b), CDX2 (panel c),
       NGN3 (panel d), PAX4 (panel e), NEUROD (panel f), NKX6.1 (panel g), PTFI alpha
       (panel h), and PDXI (panel i), as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells
       sorted using antibodies to CD56 and CD184. Fold expression is shown relative to
       undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
100331 Figure 8 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), insulin (panel
       c), and glucagon (panel d), as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells
       sorted using an antibody to CD98. Fold expression is shown relative to
       undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
100341 Figure 9 shows the expression of NEUROD (panel a), NGN3 (panel b), PDXI (panel
       c), NKX6.1 (panel d), NKX2.2 (panel e), and PAX4 (panel f), as detected via real
       time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using an antibody to CD47. Fold expression
       is shown relative to undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
                                                    9

[0035] Figure 10 shows the expression ofPDX-I (panel a), NKX6.1 (panel b), NKX2.2
       (panel c), PAX-4 (panel d), PTFIa (panel e), NGN3 (panel f), Insulin (panel g) and
       glucagon (panel h) as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using
       an antibody to CD47. Fold expression isshown relative to undifferentiated H I
       embryonic stem cells.
100361 Figure I I shows the expression of HNF4 alpha (panel a), and LIF receptor (panel b),
       as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells sorted using an antibody to the
       LIF receptor. Fold expression is shown relative to unsorted cells at DAY 2 of Stage II
       of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1.
10037] Figure 12 shows the expression of OCT4 (panel a), NANOG (panel b), SOX2 (panel
       c), and goosecoid (panel d), as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells
       depleted of cells expressing SSEA4 using magnetic beads. Fold expression is shown
       relative to undifferentiated H I embryonic stem cells.
100381 Figure 13 shows the expression of OCT4 (panel a), NANOG (panel b), SOX2 (panel
       c), and goosecoid (panel d), as detected via real-time PCR, in populations of cells
       depleted of cells expressing SSEA4 using FACS. Fold expression is shown relative to
       undifferentiated HI embryonic stem cells.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
100391 For clarity of disclosure, and not by way of limitation, the detailed description of the
       invention is divided into the following subsections that describe or illustrate certain
       features, embodiments or applications of the present invention.
                                                Definitions
[0040] "p-cell lineage" refers to cells with positive gene expression for the transcription
       factor PDX-I and at least one of the following transcription factors: NGN3, NKX2.2,
       NKX6.1, NEUROD, ISLI, HNF-3 beta, MAFA, PAX4, and PAX6. Cells expressing
       markers characteristic of the  P cell lineage include 0 cells.
100411 "Cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage" as used
       herein refers to cells expressing at least one of the following markers: SOX 17,
                                                    to

       GATA4, HNF-3 beta, GSC, CERI, Nodal, FGF8, Brachyury, Mix-like homeobox
       protein, FGF4, CD48, comesodermin (EOMES), DKK4, FGF 17, GATA6, CD184, C
       Kit, CD99, or OTX2. Cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage include primitive streak precursor cells, primitive streak cells, mesendoderm
       cells and definitive endoderm cells.
100421 "Cells expressing markers characteristic of the primitive gut tube lineage" refers to cells
       expressing at least one of the following markers: HNF-l beta, or HNF-4 alpha.
10043] "Cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage" as used
       herein refers to cells expressing at least one of the following markers: PDXI, HNF-I
       beta, PTF- I alpha, HNF6, or HB9. Cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endoderm lineage include pancreatic endoderm cells.
10044] "Cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage" as used
       herein refers to cells expressing at least one of the following markers: NGN3,
       NEUROD, ISLI, PDXI, NKX6.1, PAX4, NGN3, or PTF-l alpha. Cells expressing
       markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage include pancreatic endocrine
       cells, pancreatic hormone expressing cells, and pancreatic hormone secreting cells, and
       cells of the 0-cell lineage.
10045] "Definitive endodemn" as used herein refers to cells which bear the characteristics of
       cells arising from the epiblast during gastrulation and which form the gastrointestinal
       tract and its derivatives. Definitive endoderm cells express the following markers:
       CDI84, HNF-3 beta, GATA4, SOX17, Cerberus, OTX2, goosecoid, c-Kit, CD99, and
       Mixll.
100461 "Markers" as used herein, are nucleic acid or polypeptide molecules that are
       differentially expressed in a cell of interest. In this context, differential expression
       means an increased level for a positive marker and a decreased level for a negative
       marker. The detectable level of the marker nucleic acid or polypeptide is sufficiently
       higher or lower in the cells of interest compared to other cells, such that the cell of
       interest can be identified and distinguished from other cells using any of a variety of
       methods known in the art.
                                                      II

[0047] "Pancreatic endocrine cell" or "pancreatic hormone expressing cell" as used herein refers
       to a cell capable of expressing at least one of the following hormones: insulin, glucagon,
       somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide.
[0048] "Pancreatic hormone secreting cell" as used herein refers to a cell capable of secreting at
       least one of the following hormones: insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic
       polypeptide.
[0049  "Pre-primitive streak cell" as used herein refers to acell expressing at least one of the
       following markers: Nodal, or FGF8.
[0050] "Primitive streak cell" as used herein refers to a cell expressing at least one of the
       following markers: Brachyury, Mix-like homeobox protein, or FGF4.
[0051] Stem cells are undifferentiated cells defined by their ability at the single cell level to both
       self-renew and differentiate to produce progeny cells, including self-renewing
       progenitors, non-renewing progenitors, and terminally differentiated cells. Stem cells
       are also characterized by their ability to differentiate in vitro into functional cells of
       various cell lineages from multiple germ layers (endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm), as
       well as to give rise to tissues of multiple germ layers following transplantation and to
       contribute substantially to most, if not all, tissues following injection into blastocysts.
10052] Stem cells are classified by their developmental potential as: (i) totipotent, meaning able
       to give rise to all embryonic and extraembryonic cell types; (ii) pluripotent, meaning
       able to give rise to all embryonic cell types; (iii) multipotent, meaning able to give rise to
       a subset of cell lineages, but all within aparticular tissue, organ, or physiological system
       (for example, hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) can produce progeny that include HSC
       (self- renewal), blood cell restricted oligopotent progenitors and all cell types and
       elements (e.g., platelets) that are normal components of the blood); (iv) oligopotent,
       meaning able to give rise to a more restricted subset of cell lineages than multipotent
       stem cells; and (v) unipotent, meaning able to give rise to a single cell lineage (e.g.,
       spermatogenic stem cells).
J0053] Differentiation is the process by which an unspecialized ("uncommitted") or less
       specialized cell acquires the features of a specialized cell such as, for example, a nerve
                                                       12

       cell or a muscle cell. A differentiated or differentiation-induced cell isone that has taken
       on amore specialized ("committed") position within the lineage of a cell. The term
       committed", when applied to the process of differentiation, refers to a cell that has
       proceeded in the differentiation pathway to a point where, under normal circumstances, it
       will continue to differentiate into a specific cell type or subset of cell types, and cannot,
       under normal circumstances, differentiate into a different cell type or revert to a less
       differentiated cell type. Dedifferentiation refers to the process by which a cell reverts to
       a less specialized (or committed) position within the lineage of a cell. As used herein,
       the lineage of a cell defines the heredity of the cell, that is, which cells it came from and
       what cells it can give rise to. The lineage of acell places the cell within a hereditary
       scheme of development and differentiation. A lineage-specific marker refers to a
       characteristic specifically associated with the phenotype of cells of a lineage of interest
       and can be used to assess the differentiation of an uncommitted cell to the lineage of
       interest.
100541 Various terms are used to describe cells in culture. "Maintenance" refers generally to
       cells placed in a growth medium under conditions that facilitate cell growth and/or
       division that may or may not result in alarger population of the cells. "Passaging" refers
       to the process of removing the cells from one culture vessel andplacing them in a
       second culture vessel under conditions that facilitate cell growth and/or division.
10055] A specific population of cells, or acell line, is sometimes referred to or characterized by
       the number of times it has been passaged. For example, acultured cell population that
       has been passaged ten times may be referred to as a PIO culture. The primary culture,
       that is, the first culture following the isolation of cells from tissue, is designated PO.
       Following the first subculture, the cells are described as a secondary culture (P1 or
       passage 1). After the second subculture, the cells become a tertiary culture (P2 or
       passage 2), and so on. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that there may be
       many population doublings during the period of passaging; therefore the number of
       population doublings of a culture is greater than the passage number. The expansion of
       cells (that is, the number of population doublings) during the period between passaging
       depends on many factors, including but not limited to the seeding density, substrate,
       medium, growth conditions, and time between passaging.
                                                       13

             Enrichment of Cells Expressing Markers Characteristic of the Pancreatic
                                          Endocrine Lineage
[0056] In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method to differentiate a
       population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, comprising the steps of:
       a. Culturing apopulation of pluripotent stem cells,
       b. Differentiating the population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells
           expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage,
       c. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           definitive endoderm lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
       d. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage, and
       e. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           pancreatic endoderm lineage into a population cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage.
10057] In one embodiment, the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage is transplanted into an animal, wherein the cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage form insulin
       producing cells. I one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin
       producing cells is enhanced by enriching the population for cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage prior to transplantation.
10058] In one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin producing cells is
       determined by measuring the time taken for the expression of C-peptide to reach
       detectable levels following transplantation.
10059] In an alternate embodiment, the enrichment decreases the ability of the transplanted
       cells to form teratomas following transplantation.
                                                   14

[0060] Cells expressing markers of the pancreatic endocrine lineage are identified or selected
       through the binding of antigens, found on the surfaces of the cells, to reagents that
       specifically bind the cell surface antigen.
100611 In an alternate embodiment, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endocrine lineage are further differentiated into insulin producing cells, prior to
       transplantation into an animal. Insulin producing cells are identified or selected through
       the binding of antigens, found on the surfaces of the cells, to reagents that specifically
       bind the cell surface antigen.
[00621 In an alternate embodiment, the present invention provides a method to differentiate a
       population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, comprising the steps of:
       a. Culturing apopulation of pluripotent stem cells,
       b. Differentiating the population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells
           expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage,
       c. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           definitive endodenn lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
       d. Enriching the population of cells that express markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
       e. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage, and
       f. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           pancreatic endodern lineage into a population cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancratic endocrine lineage.
10063] In one embodiment, the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage is transplanted into an animal, wherein the cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage form insulin
                                                    15

       producing cells. In one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin
       producing cells is enhanced by enriching the population of cells that express markers
       characteristic of the primitive gut tube lineage prior to transplantation.
100641 Cells expressing markers of the primitive gut tube lineage are identified or selected
       through the binding of antigens, found on the surfaces of the cells, to reagents that
       specifically bind the cell surface antigen.
              Swrface Antigens that Facilitate Enrichment ofCells Expressing Markers
                          Characteristic of the Pancreatic Endocrine Lineage
10065] In one embodiment, prior to transplantation into an animal, the population of cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage is treated with at
       least one reagent that is capable of binding to a marker selected from the group
       consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD47, CD56, CD73, CDI 17, CD133, CD184,
       CD200, CD3 IS,CD326 and SSEA4.
10066] In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       positive for the expression of the marker CD56 and negative for the expression of the
       marker CD13.
100671 In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       positive for the expression of the marker CD56 and negative for the expression of the
       marker CD15.
10068] In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       negative for the expression of the marker CD133.
100691 In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       negative for the expression of the marker CD 15.
                                                    16

[0070] In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       positive for the expression of the marker CD184.
100711 In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage that are
       negative for the expression of the marker SSEA4.
                Stirace Antigens that Facilitate Enrichment ofInsulin Producing Cells
[00721 In one embodiment, prior to transplantation into an animal, the population of cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage is further
       differentiated into a population of insulin producing cells. The population of insulin
       producing cells is treated with at least one reagent that is capable of binding to a
       marker selected from the group consisting of CD47, CD56, CD57 CD98 and SSEA4.
10073] In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       insulin producing cells that are positive for the expression of the marker CD56 and
       CD57. Alternatively, the population of insulin producing cells may be positive for the
       expression of CD98. Alternatively, the population of insulin producing cells may be
       negative for the expression of CD47.
[0074] In one embodiment, treatment with the at least one reagent results in a population of
       insulin producing cells that are negative for the expression of the marker SSEA4.
100751 CD13 is expressed on the majority of peripheral blood monocytes and granulocytes.
       It is also expressed by the majority of acute myeloid leukemias, chronic myeloid
       leukemias in myeloid blast crisis, a smaller percentage of lymphoid leukemias and
       mycloid cell lines. CD13 is also found in several types of non hematopoietic cells
       such as fibroblasts and endothelial cells and in a soluble form in blood plasma. CD13
       is not expressed on B cells, T cells, platelets or erythrocytes. CD13 plays a role in
       biologically active peptide metabolism, in the control of growth and differentiation, in
       phagocytosis and in bactericidal/tumoricidal activities. CD13 also serves as a
       receptor for human coronaviruses (HCV).
                                                    17

[0076] CD 15 is a carbohydrate adhesion molecule that can be expressed on glycoproteins,
       glycolipids and proteoglycans. CD15 mediates phagocytosis and chemotaxis, found
       on neutrophils; expressed in patients with Hodgkin disease, sone B-cell chronic
       lymphocytic leukemias, acute lymphoblastic leukemias, and most acute
       nonlymphocytic leukemias. It is also called Lewis x and SSEA-l (stage specific
       embryonic antigen 1) and represents a marker for murine pluripotent stem cells, in
       which it plays an important role in adhesion and migration of the cells in the
       preimplantation embryo.
[0077] CD47 is a membrane protein, which is involved in the increase in intracellular
       calcium concentration that occurs upon cell adhesion to extracellular matrix. The
       protein is also a receptor for the C-terminal cell binding domain of thrombospondin,
       and it may play a role in membrane transport and signal transduction.
[0078] CD56, also known as Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM) is a homophilic
       binding glycoprotein expressed on the surface of neurons, glia, skeletal muscle and
       natural killer cells. NCAM has been implicated as having arole in cell-cell adhesion,
       neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity, and learning and memory.
100791 CD57 also known as HNK-I or Leu-7, is an antigenic oligosaccharide moiety
       detected on extracellular proteins of certain cell types. In blood, CD57 is found on
       15-20% of mononuclear cells, including subsets ofNK and T cells, though not on
       erythrocytes, monocytes, granulocytes, or platelets. Also, CD57 expression can be
       found on a variety of neural cell types.
10080] CD98 is a glycoprotein that comprises the light subunit of the Large neutral Amino
       acid Transporter (LAT 1). LATI is a heterodimeric membrane transport protein that
       preferentially transports neutral branched (valine. leucine, isoleucine) and aromatic
       (tryptophan, tyrosine) amino acids.
100811 CD 133 is a glycoprotein also known in humans and rodents as Prominin I (PROM 1).
       It is a member of pentaspan transmembrane glycopmteins (5-transmembrane, 5-TM),
       which specifically localizes to cellular protrusions. CD133 is expressed in
       hematopoictic stem cells, endothelial progenitor cells, glioblastomas, neuronal and
                                                   18

       glial stem cells. See Corbeil et al, Biochem Biophys Res Commun 285 (4): 939-44,
       2001. doi:10.1006/bbrc.2001.527I. PMID 11467842.
               Siface Antigens that Facilitate Enichment of Cells Expressing Markers
                           Characteristic ofthe Primitive Gut Tube Lineage
[0082] In an alternate embodiment, the present invention provides a method to differentiate a
       population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, comprising the steps of:
       a. Culturing apopulation of pluripotent stem cells,
       b. Differentiating the population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells
           expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage,
       c. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           definitive endoderm lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
       d. Enriching the population of cells that express markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage,
       e. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           primitive gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage, and
       f. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
           pancreatic endoderm lineage into a population cells expressing markers
           characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage.
10083] In one embodiment, the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage is transplanted into an animal, wherein the cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage form insulin
       producing cells. In one embodiment, the efficiency of the formation of insulin
       producing cells is enhanced by enriching the population of cells that express markers
       characteristic of the primitive gut tube lineage prior to transplantation.
                                                    19

[0084] The population of cells that express markers characteristic of the primitive gut tube
       lineage is treated with at least one reagent that iscapable of binding to the LIF
       receptor.
[0085] The cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the primitive gut tube lineage, or insulin
       producing cells may be enriched, depleted, isolated, separated, sorted and/or purified
       as further described in the examples. As used herein, the terms "enriched" or
       "purified" or enriched or purified due to depletion of other known cell populations,
       indicate that the cells has been subject to some selection process so that the population
       is enriched and/or purified. Also, the subject cells are also considered relatively
       enriched and/or purified, i.e. there is significantly more of a particular differentiated
       cell population as compared to another cell population, or as compared to pluripotent
       stem cells before "enrichment" or "purification", or as compared to the original or
       initial cell culture.
[00861 Enriching or purifying for a given differentiated cell type may involve "depleting" or
       "separating" or "sorting" one or more known cell types from another cell type. In one
       embodiment, a population of cells may be purified by depleting an unwanted
       differentiated cell type. It may be advantageous to enrich and purify a cell expressing
       markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage by depleting the culture of
       known or unknown cell types. In this way, the enriched or purified cell population
       would not have the bound or attached antibody. Because there is no need to remove
       the antibody from the purified population, the use of the enriched or purified cells for
       cell therapies may be improved.
[0087] Methods for enriching, depleting, isolating, separating, sorting and/or purifying may
       include, for example, selective culture conditions, wherein the culture conditions are
       detrimental to any undesirable cell types.
100881 Methods for enriching, depleting, isolating, separating, sorting and/or purifying may
       also include, for example, antibody-coated magnetic beads, affinity chromatography
       and "panning" with antibody attached to a solid matrix or solid phase capture
       medium, e.g. plate, column or other convenient and available technique. Techniques
                                                    20

       providing accurate separation include flow cytometry methods which are useful for
       measuring cell surface and intracellular parameters, as well as shape change and
       granularity and for analyses of beads used as antibody- or probe-linked reagents.
       Readouts from flow cytometry assays include, but are not limited to, the mean
       fluorescence associated with individual fluorescent antibody-detected cell surface
       molecules or cytokines, or the average fluorescence intensity, the median fluorescence
       intensity, the variance in fluorescence intensity, or some relationship among these.
100891 In some aspects of embodiments with analytical steps involving flow cytometry,
       minimal parameters or characteristics of the beads are scatter (FS and/or SS) and at
       least one fluorescent wavelengths. Flow cytometry can be used to quantitate
       parameters such as the presence of cell surface proteins or conformational or
       posttranslational modification thereof; intracellular or secreted protein, where
       perneabilization allows antibody (or probe) access, and the like. Flow cytometry
       methods are known in the art, and described in the following: Flow Cytometry and
       Cell Storing (Springer Lab Manual), Radbruch, Ed., Springer Verlag, 2000; Ormerod,
       Flow Cytometry, Springer Verlag, 1999; Flow Cytometry Protocols (Methods in
       Molecular Biology , No 91), Jaroszeski and Heller, Eds., Humana Press, 1998;
       Current Protocols in Cytometry, Robinson et al., eds, John Wiley & Sons, New York,
       N.Y., 2000.
10090] The staining intensity of cells may be monitored by flow cytometry, where lasers
       detect the quantitative levels of fluorochrome (which is proportional to the amount of
       cell surface marker bound by specific reagents, e.g. antibodies). Flow cytometry, or
       FACS, may also be used to separate cell populations based on the intensity of binding
       to a specific reagent, as well as other parameters such as cell size and light scatter.
       Although the absolute level of staining can differ with aparticular fluorochrome and
       reagent preparation, the data can be normalized to a control. In order to normalize the
       distribution to a control, each cell is recorded as a data point having a particular
       intensity of staining.
100911 In order to normalize the distribution to a control, each cell is recorded as a data point
       having a particular intensity of staining. These data points may be displayed
       according to a log scale, where the unit of measure is arbitrary staining intensity. In
                                                    21

       one example, the brightest cells in apopulation are designated as 4 logs more intense
       than the cells having the lowest level of staining. When displayed in this manner, it is
       clear that the cells falling in the highest log of staining intensity are bright, while
       those in the lowest intensity are negative. The "low" staining cells, which fall in the
       2-3 log of staining intensity, may have properties that are unique from the negative
       and positive cells. An alternative control may utilize a substrate having a defined
       density of marker on its surface, for example a fabricated bead or cell line, which
       provides the positive control for intensity. The "low" designation indicates that the
       level of staining is above the brightness of an isotype matched control, but is not as
       intense as the most brightly staining cells normally found in the population.
100921 The readouts of selected parameters are capable of being read simultaneously, or in
       sequence during a single analysis, as for example through the use of fluorescent
       antibodies to cell surface molecules. As an example, these can be tagged with
       different fluorochromes, fluorescent bead, tags, e.g. quantum dots, etc., allowing
       analysis of up to 4 or more fluorescent colors simultaneously by flow cytometry. For
       example, a negative designation indicates that the level of staining is at or below the
       brightness of an isotype matched negative control; whereas a dim designation
       indicates that the level of staining can be near the level of anegative stain, but can
       also be brighter than an isotype matched control.
100931 Identifiers of individual cells, for example different cell types or cell type variants,
       may be fluorescent, as for example labeling of different unit cell types with different
       levels of a fluorescent compound, and the like as described herein above. In some
       aspects of embodiments where two cell types are to be mixed, one is labeled and the
       other not. In some aspects of embodiments where three or more cell types are to be
       included, each cell type may labeled to different levels of fluorescence by incubation
       with different concentrations of a labeling compound, or for different times. As
       identifiers of large numbers of cells, a matrix of fluorescence labeling intensities of
       two or more different fluorescent colors may be used, such that the number of distinct
       unit cell types that are identified is a number of fluorescent levels of one color, e.g.,
       carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE), times the number of fluorescence
       levels employed of the second color, e.g. tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate
       (TRITC), or the like, times the number of levels of a third color, etc. Alternatively,
                                                     22

       intrinsic light scattering properties of the different cell types, or characteristics of the
       BioMAPs of the test parameters included in the analysis, may be used in addition to
       or in place of fluorescent labels as unit cell type identifiers.
100941 In another aspect, cells may be enriched, depleted, separated, sorted and/or purified
       using conventional affinity or antibody techniques. For example, the ligand and/or
       antibody may be conjugated with labels to allow for ease of separation of the
       particular cell type, e.g. magnetic beads; biotin, which binds with high affinity to
       avidin or streptavidin; fluorochromes, which can be used with a fluorescence
       activated cell sorter; haptens; and the like.
[0095] In one embodiment, the ligand, agent, and/or antibodies described herein may be
       directly or indirectly conjugated to a magnetic reagent, such as a super-paramagnetic
       microparticle (microparticle). Direct conjugation to a magnetic particle may be
       achieved by use of various chemical linking groups, as known in the art. In some
       embodiments,the antibody is coupled to the microparticles through side chain amino
       or sufhydryl groups and heterofunctional cross-linking reagents.
[0096] A large number of heterofunctional compounds are available for linking to entities.
       For example, at least, 3-(2-pyridyidithio)propionic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester
       (SPDP) or 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-l-carboxylic acid N
       hydroxysuccinimide ester (SMGC) with a reactive sulfhydryl group on the antibody
       and a reactive amino group on the magnetic particle can be used. An example of a
       magnetic separation device is described in WO 90/07380, PCT/US96/00953, and EP
       438,520, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0097] The purified cell population may be collected in any appropriate medium. Suitable
       media may include, for example, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (dMEM),
       Hank's Basic Salt Solution (HBSS), Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline (dPBS),
       RPMJ, Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium (IMDM), phosphate buffered saline
       (PBS) with 5 mM EDTA, etc., frequently supplemented with fetal calf serum (FCS),
       bovine serum albumin (BSA), human serum albumin (HSA), and StemPro~hESC
       SFM.
                                                     23

[0098] In one embodiment, the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endocrine lineage are enriched by treatment with at least one agent that selects cells
       that do not express markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage. In an
       alternate embodiment, the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endocrine lineage are enriched by treatment with at least one agent that selects for
       insulin-producing cells.
100991 Using the methods described herein, cell populations or cell cultures may be enriched
       in cell content by at least about 2- to about 1000-fold as compared to untreated cell
       populations or cell cultures. In some embodiments, cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage may be enriched by at least about 5
       to about 500-fold as compared to untreated cell populations or cell cultures. In other
       embodiments, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage may be enriched from at least about 10- to about 200-fold as compared to
       untreated cell populations or cell cultures. In still other embodiments, cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage may be enriched
       from at least about 20- to about 100-fold as compared to untreated cell populations or
       cell cultures. In yet other embodiments, cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage may be enriched from at least about 40- to about 80-fold
       as compared to untreated cell populations or cell cultures. In certain embodiments,
       cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage may be
       enriched from at least about 2- to about 20-fold as compared to untreated cell
       populations or cell cultures.
                  Characterization of Cells Derived from Pluripotent Stem Cells
[0100] The formation of differentiated cells from pluripotent stem cells may be determined
       by determining the expression of markers characteristic of a given differentiated cell
       typo. In some embodiments, the identification and characterization of a differentiated
       cell is by expression of a certain marker or different expression levels and patterns of
       more than one marker.
101011 Specifically, the presence or absence, the high or low expression, of one or more the
       marker(s) can typify and identify a cell-type. Also, certain markers may have
                                                   24

       transient expression, whereby the marker is highly expressed during one stage of
       development and poorly expressed in another stage of development. The expression
       of certain markers can be determined by measuring the level at which the marker is
       present in the cells of the cell culture or cell population as compared to a standardized
       or normalized control marker. In such processes, the measurement of marker
       expression can be qualitative or quantitative. One method of quantitating the
       expression of markers that are produced by marker genes is through the use of
       quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). Methods of performing Q-PCR are well known in the art.
       Other methods which are known in the art can also be used to quantitate marker gene
       expression. For example, the expression of a marker gene product can be detected by
       using antibodies specific for the marker gene product of interest (e.g. Western blot,
       flow cytometry analysis, and the like). In certain embodiments, the expression of
       marker genes characteristic of differentiated cells as well as the lack of significant
       expression of marker genes characteristic of differentiated cells may be determined.
101021 The expression of tissue-specific gene products can also be detected at the mRNA
       level by Northern blot analysis, dot-blot hybridization analysis, or by reverse
       transcriptase initiated polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using sequence-specific
       primers in standard amplification methods. See U.S. Pat. No. 5,843,780 for further
       details. Sequence data for particular markers listed in this disclosure can be obtained
       from public databases such as GenBank.
101031 Pluripotent stem cells may express one or more of the stage-specific embryonic
       antigens (SSEA) 3 and 4, and markers detectable using antibodies designated Tra- I
       60 and Tra-1-81 (Thomson et a., Science 282:1145, 1998). Differentiation of
       pluripotent stem cells in vitro results in the loss of SSEA-4, Tra 1-60, and Tra 1-81
       expression (if present) and increased expression of SSEA-1. Undifferentiated
       pluripotent stem cells typically have alkaline phosphatase activity, which can be
       detected by fixing the cells with 4% paraformaldehyde, and then developing with
       Vector Red as a substrate, as described by the manufacturer (Vector Laboratories,
       Burlingame Calif.). Undifferentiated pluripotent stem cells also typically express
       OCT4 and TERT, as detected by RT-PCR.
                                                    25

[0104] Markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage are selected from the group
       consisting of PDX I, HNF1 beta, PTF I alpha, HNF6, HB9 and PROX1. Suitable for
       use in the present invention is a cell that expresses at least one of the markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endodern lineage. In one aspect of the present
       invention, acell expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage
       is a pancreatic endoderm cell.
[0105] Markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage are selected from the group
       consisting of SOXI7, GATA4, HNF3 beta, GSC, CERI, Nodal, FGF8, Brachyury,
       Mix-like homeobox protein, FGF4, CD48, eomesodermin (EOMES), DKK4, FGF 17,
       GATA6, CD184, C-Kit, CD99, and OTX2. Suitable for use in the present invention
       is a cell that expresses at least one of the markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage. In one aspect of the present invention, a cell expressing markers
       characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage is a primitive streak precursor cell.
       In an alternate aspect, a cell expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage is a mesendoderm cell. In an alternate aspect, a cell expressing
       markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage is a definitive endoderm
       cell.
[0106] Markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage are selected from the group
       consisting of NGN3, NEUROD, ISLI, PDXI, NKX6.1, PAX4, NGN3, and PTF-1
       alpha. In one embodiment, apancreatic endocrine cell is capable of expressing at
       least one of the following hormones: insulin, glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic
       polypeptide. Suitable for use in the present invention is a cell that expresses at least
       one of the markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage. In one aspect of
       the present invention, a cell expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endocrine lineage is a pancreatic endocrine cell. The pancreatic endocrine cell may
       be a pancreatic hormone-expressing cell. Alternatively, the pancreatic endocrine cell
       may be a pancreatic hormone-secreting cell.
[0107! In one aspect of the present invention, the pancreatic endocrine cell is a cell
       expressing markers characteristic of the    p cell lineage. A cell expressing markers
       characteristic of the  p cell lineage expresses PDXI    and at least one of the following
       transcription factors: NGN3, NKX2.2, NKX6.1, NEUROD, ISLI, HNF3 beta,
                                                    26

       MAFA, PAX4, and PAX6. In one aspect of the present invention, a cell expressing
       markers characteristic of the    p cell lineage is a p cell.
                                          Pluripotent Stem Cells
                               Characterization of Pluripotent Stem Cells
10108] Pluripotent stem cells may express one or mom of the stage-specific embryonic
       antigens (SSEA) 3 and 4, and markers detectable using antibodies designated Tra- I
       60 and Tra-t-81 (Thomson et al., Science 282:1145 1998). Differentiation of
       pluripotent stem cells in vitro results in the loss of SSEA-4, Tm- 1-60, and Tm-I-81
       expression (if present) and increased expression of SSEA-1. Undifferentiated
       pluripotent stem cells typically have alkaline phosphatase activity, which can be
       detected by fixing the cells with 4% paraformaldehyde and then developing with
       Vector Red as a substrate, as described by the manufacturer (Vector Laboratories,
       Burlingame Calif.). Undifferentiated pluripotent stem cells also typically express
       Oct-4 and TERT, as detected by RT-PCR.
[01091 Another desirable phenotype of propagated pluripotent stem cells is a potential to
       differentiate into cells of all three germinal layers: endoderm, mesoderm, and
       ectoderm tissues. Pluripotency of stem cells can be confirmed, for example, by
       injecting cells into severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice, fixing the
       teratomas that form using 4% paraformaldehyde, and then examining them
       histologically for evidence of cell types from the three germ layers. Alternatively,
       pluripotency may be determined by the creation of embryoid bodies and assessing the
       embryoid bodies for the presence of markers associated with the three germinal
       layers.
101101 Propagated pluripotent stem cell lines may be karyotyped using a standard G-banding
       technique and compared to published karyotypes of the corresponding primate
       species. It is desirable to obtain cells that have a "normal karyotype," which means
       that the cells are euploid, wherein all human chromosomes are present and not
       noticeably altered.
                                    Sources ofPluripotent Stem Cells
                                                      27

[0111] The types of pluripotent stem cells that may be used include established lines of
       pluripotent cells derived from tissue formed after gestation, including pre-embryonic
       tissue (such as, for example, a blastocyst), embryonic tissue, or fetal tissue taken any
       time during gestation, typically but not necessarily before approximately 10-12 weeks
       gestation. Non-limiting examples are established lines of human embryonic stem
       cells or human embryonic germ cells, such as, for example the human embryonic
       stem cell lines H1, H7, and H9 (WiCell). Also contemplated is use of the
       compositions of this disclosure during the initial establishment or stabilization of such
       cells, in which case the source cells would be primary pluripotent cells taken directly
       from the source tissues. Also suitable are cells taken from a pluripotent stem cell
       population already cultured in the absence of feeder cells, as well as a pluripotent
       stem cell population already cultured in the presence of feeder cells. Also suitable are
       mutant human embryonic stem cell lines, such as, for example, BGOlv (BresaGen,
       Athens, GA). Also suitable are cells derived from adult human somatic cells, such as,
       for examples, cells disclosed in Takahashi et al, Cell 131: 1-12 (2007),
101121 In one embodiment, human embryonic stem cells are prepared as described by
       Thomson at al. (U.S. Pat, No. 5,843,780; Science 282:1145, 1998; Curr. Top. Dev.
       Biol. 38:133 ff., 1998; Proc. Nat]. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 92:7844, 1995).
[0113] Also contemplated, are pluripotent stem cells that are derived from somatic cells. In
       one embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present invention may
       be derived according to the methods described in Takahashi et al (Cell 126: 663-676,
       2006).
101141 In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in Li et al (Cell Stem
       Cell 4: 16-19, 2009).
[0115] In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in Maherali et al (Cell
       Stem Cell 1: 55-70, 2007).
                                                   28

[0116] In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in Stadtfeld et a (Cell
       Stem Cell 2: 230-240),
101171 In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in Nakagawa et a
       (Nature Biotechnology 26: 101-106, 2008).
[0118] In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in Takahashi et al (Cell
       131: 861-872, 2007).
101191 In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells suitable for use in the present
       invention may be derived according to the methods described in US patent application
       Set. No. 611256,149, assigned to Centocor R&D, Inc.
                                    Culture of Pluripotent Stem Cells
[0120] In one embodiment, pluripotent stem cells are cultured on a layer of feeder cells or
       extracellular matrix protein that support the pluripotent stem cells in various ways,
       prior to culturing according to the methods of the present invention. For example,
       pluripotent stem cells are cultured on a feeder cell layer that supports proliferation of
       pluripotent stem cells without undergoing substantial differentiation. The growth of
       pluripotent stem cells on a feeder cell layer without differentiation is supported using
       (i) Obtaining a culture vessel containing a feeder cell layer; and (ii) a medium
       conditioned by culturing previously with another cell type, or a non-conditioned
       medium, for example, free of serum or even chemically defined.
101211 In another example, pluripotent stem cells are cultured in a culture system that is
       essentially free of feeder cells, but nonetheless supports proliferation of pluripotent
       stem cells without undergoing substantial differentiation. The growth of pluripotent
       stem cells in feeder-cell free culture without differentiation is supported using (i) an
       adlayer on a solid substrate surface with one or more extracellular matrix proteins;
       and (ii) a medium conditioned by culturing previously with another cell type, or a
       non-conditioned medium, for example, free of serum or even chemically defined.
                                                    29

[0122] In an alternate embodiment, pluripotent stem cells are cultured on a surface modified
       plate containing from at least about 0.5% N, a sum of 0 and N of greater than or equal
       to 17.2% and a contact angle of at least about 13.9 degrees in a medium conditioned
       by culturing previously with another cell type, or a non-conditioned medium, for
       example, free of serum or even chemically defined.
101231 Culture medium: An example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the present
       invention may be found in US20020072117. Another example of cell culture medium
       suitable for use in the present invention may be found in US6642048. Another
       example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the present invention may be found
       in WO2005014799. Another example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the
       present invention may be found in Xu e al (Stem Cells 22: 972-980, 2004). Another
       example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the present invention may be found
       in US200700 10011. Another example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the
       present invention may be found in Cheon et al. (BioReprod
       DOI:10. 1095/biolreprod.105.046870; 19 Oct 2005). Another example of cell culture
       medium suitable for use in the present invention may be found in Levenstein et al.
       (Stem Cells 24: 568-574, 2006). Another example of cell culture medium suitable for
       use in the present invention may be found in US20050148070. Another example of
       cell culture medium suitable for use in the present invention may be found in
       US20050233446. Another example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the
       present invention may be found in US6800480. Another example of cell culture
       medium suitable for use in the present invention may be found in US20050244962.
       Another example of cell culture medium suitable for use in the present invention may
       be found in W02005065354. Another example of cell culture medium suitable for
       use in the present invention may be found in W02005086845.
101241 Suitable culture media may also be made from the following components, such as, for
       example, Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM), Gibco # 11965-092;
       Knockout Dulbeco's modified Eagle's medium (KO DMEM), Gibco # 10829-018;
       Ham's F12/50% DMEM basal medium; 200 mM L-glutamine, Gibco # 15039-027;
       non-essential amino acid solution, Gibco 11140-050; p-mercaptoethanol, Sigma #
       M7522; human recombinant basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), Gibco # 13256
       029.
                                                  30

                                Diferentiation of Pluripotent Stem Cells
[0125] In one embodiment, pluripotent stem cells are propagated in culture and then treated
       in a manner that promotes their differentiation into another cell type. For example,
       pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention may be
       differentiated into neural progenitors or cardiomyocytes according to the methods
       disclosed in W02007030870.
[0126] In another example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present
       invention may be differentiated into hepatocytes according to the methods disclosed
       in US patent 6,458,589.
         Diferentiation of Pluripotent Stem Cells Formed Using the Methods ofthe Present
         Invention into Cells Expressing Markers Characteristic ofthe Definitive Endoderm
                                                Lineage
101271 Pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention may be
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage by any method in the art.
[0128] For example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention
       may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in D'Amour et al, Nature
       Biotechnology 23, 1534 - 1541 (2005).
101291 For example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention
       may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in Shinozaki et al, Development
       131, 1651 - 1662 (2004).
101301 For example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention
       may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in McLean et al, Stem Cells 25,
       29 - 38 (2007)
                                                   31

[0131] For example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention
       may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in D'Amour et al, Nature
       Biotechnology 24, 1392 - 1401 (2006).
101321 In another example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present
       invention may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       definitive endodern lineage according to the methods disclosed in US patent
       application Ser. No. I 1/736,908, assigned to LifeScan, Inc.
[01331 In another example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present
       invention may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       definitive endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in US patent
       application Ser. No. 1/779,311, assigned to LifeScan, Inc.
101341 In another example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present
       invention may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       definitive endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in US patent
       application Ser. No. 12/493,741, assigned to LifeScan, Inc.
10135] In another example, pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present
       invention may be differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       definitive endoderm lineage according to the methods disclosed in US patent
       application Ser. No. 12/494,789, assigned to LifeScan, Inc.
101361 Formation of cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage may be determined by testing for the presence of the markers before and after
       following a particular protocol. Pluripotent stem cells typically do not express such
       markers. Thus, differentiation of pluripotent cells is detected when cells begin to
       express them.
          Differentiationof Plunipotent Stem Cells Formed Using the Methods ofthe Present
         Invention into Cells Expressing Markers Characteristic of the Pancreatic Endoderm
                                               Lineage
                                                  32

[0137] Pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention may be
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage by any method in the art.
101381 For example, pluripotent stem cells may be differentiated into cells expressing
       markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage according to the methods
       disclosed in D'Amour et al, Nature Biotechnology 24, 1392 - 1401 (2006).
[0139] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage with a fibroblast growth factor and the hedgehog signaling pathway
       inhibitor KAAD-cyclopamine, then removing the medium containing the fibroblast
       growth factor and KAAD-cyclopamine and subsequently culturing the cells in
       medium containing retinoic acid, a fibroblast growth factor and KAAD-cyclopamine.
       An example of this method is disclosed in Nature Biotechnology 24, 1392 - 1401
       (2006).
101401 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage with retinoic acid one fibroblast growth factor for a period of time,
       according to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 11/736,908,
       assigned to LifeScan, Inc.
10141] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
       endoderm lineage with retinoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich, MO) and exendin 4, then
       removing the medium containing DAPT (Sigma-Aldrich, MO) and exendin 4 and
       subsequently culturing the cells in medium containing exendin 1, IGF-l and HGF.
                                                  33

       An example of this method is disclosed in Nature Biotechnology 24, 1392 - 1401
       (2006).
[0142] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing exendin 4, then removing the medium
       containing exendin 4 and subsequently culturing the cells in medium containing
       exendin 1, IGF-I and HGF. An example of this method isdisclosed in D' Amour et
       al, Nature Biotechnology, 2006.
[0143] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing DAPT (Sigma-Aldrich, MO) and exendin 4.
       An example of this method is disclosed in D' Amour et al, Nature Biotechnology,
       2006.
[01441 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing exendin 4. An example of this method is
       disclosed in D' Amour el al, Nature Biotechnology, 2006.
101451 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endodem
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 1/736,908, assigned to
       LifcScan, Inc.
                                                  34

[0146] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 11/779,311, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
101471 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markets characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endodem lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 60/953,178, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
101481 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 60/990,529, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
          Differentiation of Pluripotent Stem Cells Formed Using the Methods ofthe Present
         Invention into Cells Expressing Markers Characteristic of the Pancreatic Endocrine
                                                Lineage
101491 Pluripotent stem cells formed using the methods of the present invention may be
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage by any method in the art.
[0150] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
                                                   35

       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing exendin 4, then removing the medium
       containing exendin 4 and subsequently culturing the cells in medium containing
       exendin 1, IGF-I and HGF. An example of this method is disclosed in D' Amour et
       al, Nature Biotechnology, 2006.
101511 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing DAPT (Sigma-Aldrich, MO) and exendin 4.
       An example of this method is disclosed in D' Amour et at, Nature Biotechnology,
       2006.
10152] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by culturing the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage in medium containing exendin 4. An example of this method is
       disclosed in D' Amour el al, Nature Biotechnology, 2006.
10153] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markets characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 11/736,908, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
101541 For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
                                                  36

       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 11/779,311, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
[0155] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endoderm lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 60/953,178, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
[0156] For example, cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm
       lineage obtained according to the methods of the present invention are further
       differentiated into cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage, by treating the cells expressing markers characteristic of the pancreatic
       endodermn lineage with a factor that inhibits the Notch signaling pathway, according
       to the methods disclosed in US patent application Ser. No. 60/990,529, assigned to
       LifeScan, Inc.
101571 The present invention is further illustrated, but not limited by, the following
       examples.
                                             EXAMPLES
                                               Example I
             Differentiation of Human Embryonic Stem Cells of the Cell Line H1 to
                Pancreatic Endocrine Cells in the Absence of Fetal Bovine Serum
[0158] Cells of the human embryonic stem cells line HI at various passages ( p40 to p52)
       were cultured on MATRIGEL (1:30 dilution) coated dishes and differentiated into
       pancreatic lineages using a multi-step protocol as follows:
       a. Stage I (Definitive Endoderm): Human embryonic stem cells were cultured in
           RPMI medium supplemented with 2% fatty acid-free BSA (Catalog# 68700,
           Proliant, [A), and 100 ng/ml activin A (R&D Systems, MN) plus 20 ng/ml WNT
                                                   37

   3a (Catalog# 1324-WN-002, R&D Systems, MN) plus 8 ng/ml of bFGF (Catalog#
   100-18B, PeproTech, NJ), for one day. Cells were then treated with RPMI
   medium supplemented with 2%BSA and 100 ng/ml activin A plus 8 ng/ml of
   bFGF for an additional two days, then
b. Stage II (Primitive gut tube): Cells were treated with RPM1 + 2%fatty acid-free
   BSA and 50 ng/ml FGF7 and 0.25 pM SANT-l (#S4572, Sigma, MO), for two to
   three days, then
c. Stage III (Posterior foregut): Cells were treated with DMEM/High-Glucose
   supplemented with 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen, CA) and 0.1% BSA
   (Lipid Rich) (Invitrogen, Ca No. 11021-045), 50 ng/ml FGF7, 0.25 PM SANT
   1, 2 pM Retinoic acid (RA) (Sigma, MO), 100 ng/ml of Noggin (R & D Systems,
   MN), and Activin A at 20 ng/mI for four days; In certain variations, Noggin was
   replaced with the AMPK inhibitor 6-[4-(2-Piperidin-1-ylethoxy)phenyl]-3
   pyridin-4-ylpyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine (Sigma, No. P5499) at a concentration of 2
   pM. In yet other variations, a P38 inhibitor (4-[4-(4-Fluorophenyl)-l-(3
   phenylpropyl)-5-pyridin-4-yl-IH-imidazol-2-yl]but-3-yn--ol) (disclosed in US
   Patent 6,521655) was added at 2.5 p1M, then
d. Stage IV (Pancreatic endocrine precursor): Cells were treated with DMEM/High
   Glucose supplemented with 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen, CA) and 0.1%
   BSA (Invitrogen, Ca), 100 ng/ml Noggin, I pM ALK5 inhibitor (SD-208,
   disclosed in Molecular Pharmacology 2007 72:152-161) for three days, then
e. Stage V (Pancreatic endocrine cells): Cell were treated with DMEM/High
   Glucose supplemented with 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen, CA), 0.1% BSA
   (Invitrogen, Ca),    I pM ALK5 inhibitor IH(Catalog# 616452, Calbiochem, Ca)
   for seven days., then
f. Stage VI (Mature Pancreatic endocrine cells): Cells were treated with
   DMEM/High-Glucose supplemented with 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen,
   CA), 0.1% BSA (Invitrogen, Ca) for seven days, with media changes every other
   day.
                                          38

                                               Example 2
         Flow Cytometric Characterization and Sorting of Enriched Various Pancreatic
                                              Cell Lineages
[0159] To facilitate the isolation and characterization of novel cell populations form various
       stages of the differentiation process outlined in Example I, a detailed characterization
       of the cells obtained from the various stages was done by flow cytometry. A
       complete list of antibodies used and the expression levels of surface markers at
       various stages of differentiation is shown in Table L
[0160] Cells of the human embryonic stem cell line HI at various passages (p40 to p52) were
       cultured on MATRIGEL-coated plates, and differentiated into pancreatic endocrine
       cells using the protocol described in Example 1.
[0161] Cells at different stages of maturation (posterior foregut (Stage III), endocrine
       precursor cells (Stage IV), pancreatic endocrine cells (Stage V) or mature pancreatic
       endocrine cells (Stage VI) were gently released by incubation in TrypLE Express
       (Invitrogen # 12604, CA) for 2-3 minutes at 370C and washed twice in BD FACS
       staining buffer containing 2% BSA (BD # 554657, CA). Approximately 0.5-1x106
       cells were re-suspended in 100-200 l blocking buffer (0.5% human gamma-globulin
       diluted 1:4 in staining buffer (BD, CA) for staining. For staining with directly
       conjugated primary antibodies, the appropriate antibody was added to the cells at a
       final dilution of 1:20, and cells and incubated for 30 min at 4* C. For unconjugated
       antibodies, primary antibodies were added to cells at 1:50-1:100 dilution and cells
       incubated for 30 min at 4*C followed two washes in staining buffer. Cells were then
       incubated in the appropriate secondary antibodies at 1:500 dilution. Stained cells were
       re-suspended in 300 pl staining buffer and 5-10 pl of 7AAD added for live/dead cell
       discrimination prior to analysis on the BD FACS Canto I.
101621 For cell sorting, approximately 30-40 million cells were similarly processed as for
       flow cytometric analysis. Cells were stained with the appropriate antibodies as shown
       in Table I. Cells were sorted either into two or three sub-populations as summarized
       in Table I. Cell sorting gates were established based on the isotype matched controls.
       An aliquot of sorted cells were analyzed for purity following the sorting followed by
                                                    39

       PCR analysis for expression of key pancreatic markers. RNA was collected using the
       Rneasy Mini Kit, Qiagen, CA) was collected from presort sample, and the various
       fractions.
101631 Cell surface markers used for sorting were selected based on the expression of various
       markers in populations of cells analyzed at different stages of the differentiation
       protocol outlined in Example 1. The markers employed in this study are disclosed in
       Table U. Briefly, the surface markers disclosed in Table 11 were used either singly or
       in combination to sort various populations of cells. Samples of the sorted cells were
       taken to analyze the expression of markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine
       lineage by real-time PCR.
           Sorting of Cells Expressing Markers Characteristic ofthe Pancreatic Endocrine
                                               Lineage
101641 Antibodies to CD56 and CD13 were used to sort apopulation of cells obtained from
       Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1. Three populations of
       cells were identified: a) CD56CD13', b) CD56CD3' and c) CD56'CD13
       populations of cells. The CD56CD3- population was enriched approximately 1.3
       fold following sorting, and the sorted cells were highly enriched for the expression of
       markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, including NEUROD,
       NGN3, PDXI, NKX6. 1,NKX2.2 and PAX-4,when compared to unsorted cells at
       stage IV, or populations of CD56'CD13' cells, or populations of CD56CD13' cells.
       See Figure 1, panels a-f.
[0165] In a second series of experiments, antibodies to CD133 were used to sort a population
       of cells obtained from Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1.
       Two populations of cells were identified: a)CD33', and b) CD133 populations of
       cells. The CD133- population was enriched approximately 1.9 fold following sorting,
       and the sorted cells were highly enriched for the expression of markers characteristic
       of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, including NEUROD, NGN3, PDX 1, NKX6.1,
       NKX2.2 and PAX4,when compared to unsorted cells at stage IV, or populations of
       CD 133' cells. See Figure 2, panels a-f.
                                                   40

[0166] In a third series ofexperiments, antibodies to CD49c were used to sort a population of
       cells obtained from Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1.
       Two populations of cells were identified: a) CD49cm, and b) CD49cY populations of
       cells. CD49cLO cells were enriched approximately 3.1 fold following sorting, and the
       sorted cells were highly enriched for the expression of markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage, including NEUROD, NGN3, PDXI, and NKX6.1 when
       compared to unsorted cells or CD49c" cells. See Figure 3, panels a-d.
101671 In a fourth series of experiments, antibodies to CD56 and CD15 were used to sort a
       population of cells obtained from Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in
       Example 1. The following populations of cells were identified: a) CD56CD 1510, b)
       CD56*CD15"', c) CD15' and d) CDIS populations ofcells. Populations of CD15
       cells were enriched approximately 1.1 fold following sorting. Populations of
       CD56'CDl5" cells were highly enriched for the expression of markers characteristic
       of the pancreatic endocrine lineage including NEUROD, NGN3, PDX I, NKX6. 1,
       Insulin and glucagon compared to unsorted cells, or populations of CD56*CD15hi
       cells. See Figure 4, panels a-f. Similarly, populations ofCD15 cells sorted using a
       single marker were highly enriched for the expression of markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage including NEUROD, NGN3, PDX I, NKX6.1, NKX2.2,
       PAX-4, glucagon and insulin, when compared to unsorted cells or populations of
       CD5 cells. See Figure 5, panels a-h.
101681 In a fifth series of experiments, antibodies to CD56 and CD57 were used to sort a
       population of cells obtained from Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in
       Example 1. Two populations of cells were identified: a)CD56 tCD57', and b)
       CD56 t CD57 populations of cells. Populations of CD56*CD57' cells were enriched
       approximately 1.9 fold following sorting. CD56t CD57* cells were highly enriched
       for the expression of markers characteristic of the pancreatic endoderm lineage,
       including NEUROD, NGN3, PDX I, NKX6.1, NKX2.2, as wells as insulin and
       glucagon, when compared to unsorted cells or populations of CD56*CD57 cells. See
       Figure 6, panel a-g. Similar results were observed when populations of cells at Stage
       V of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example I were sorted using antibodies
       to CD56 and CD57.
                                                   41

[0169] In a sixth series of experiments, antibodies to CD56 and CD184 were used to sort a
       population of cells obtained from Stage IV of the differentiation protocol outlined in
       Example 1. Three populations of cells were identified: a) CD184', b) CD184, and c)
       CD564 CD184~ populations of cells. Table IV summarizes the expression of CD184 in
       cells before and after the enrichment. Populations of CD184 cells were enriched for
       the expression of markers characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, including
       PAX4, NEUROD, NKX6. I, PDX I and PTF I alpha. The expression of ZICl,
       Albumin and CDX2 was decreased. See Figure 7, panels a-i.
                                   Sorting of Insulin Producing Cells
[0170] Antibodies to CD98 were used to sort a population of cells obtained from Stage VI of
       the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1. Two populations of cells were
       identified: a) CD98'"", and b) CD98') populations of cells. Populations of
       CD98"" cells were enriched approximately 1.6 fold following sorting. CD98I
       cells were enriched for the expression ofNEUROD, NGN3, insulin, and glucagon.
       See Figure 8, panels a-d.
[0171] In another series of experiments, antibodies to CD47 were used to sort a population of
       cells obtained from Stage V of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1.
       Two populations of cells were identified: a)CD47"'', and b) CD47" 4 - populations
       of cells. CD47')     cells were enriched approximately 3.3 fold following sorting.
       CD47)      cells were enriched for the expression of NEUROD, NGN3, PDX1,
       NKX6. 1, NKX2.2 and PAX4. See Figure 9, panels a-f.
101721 In another series of experiments, antibodies to CD47 were used to sort a population of
       cells obtained from Stage VI of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example I,
       Two populations of cells were identified: a)CD47".., and b) CD471i) populations
       of cells. CD47*% cells were enriched for the expression of PDX-l, NKX6.1,
       NKX2.2, PAX-4, PTFla, NGN3, Insulin and Glucagon. See Figure 10, panels a-h.
                                               Example 3
           Sorting of Lif receptor Positive Cells at Primitive Gut Tube stage (Stage 2)
                                                    42

[0173] Cells of the human embryonic stem cell line H I at passage 44 were cultured on
       MATRIGEL-coated plates, and differentiated into insulin producing cells using the
       following protocol:
           a. RPMI medium supplemented with 2% fatty acid-free BSA (Catalog# 68700,
               ProliantIA), and 100 ng/ml activin A (R&D Systems, MN) plus 20 ng/ml
               WNT-3a (Catalog# 1324-WN-002, R&D Systems, MN) plus 8 ng/ml of bFGF
               (Catalog# 100-1SB, PeproTech, NJ), for one day followed by treatment with
               RPMI media supplemented with 2% BSA and 100 ng/ml activin A plus 8
               ng/ml of bFGF for an additional two days (Stage 1), then
           b. RPMI + 2%BSA + 50 ng/ml FGF7 + 0.25 pM SANT-I (#S4572, Sigma,
               MO), for three days (Stage 2), then
           c. DMEM/High-Glucose + 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen, CA) + 0.1%
               BSA (Invitrogen, Ca) 50 ng/ml FGF7 (Peprotech, NJ) + 0.25 pM SANT-l+ 2
               pM Retinoic acid (RA) (Sigma, MO) + 100 ng/ml of Noggin (R & D Systems,
               MN) and 20 ng/ml of activin A for four days (Stage 3), then
           d. DMEM/High-Glucose + 1:200 dilution of ITS-X (Invitrogen, CA)+ 0.1%
               BSA (Invitrogen, Ca) + 100 ng/ml Noggin + 1 pM ALK5 inhibitor
               (SCIOI20)+ for three days (Stage 4)
101741 Stage 2 cells were dispersed into single cells using TrypLE Express (Invitrogen,
       Carlsbad, CA) and washed in stage 4 basal media (DM-Hg + ITS-X + BSA).
       Released cells were spun and the resulting cell pellet suspended in a staining buffer
       consisting of 2% BSA, 0.05% sodium azide in PBS (Sigma, MO). As appropriate, the
       cells were Fc-receptor blocked for 15 minutes using a 0.1% y-globulin (Sigma)
       solution. Aliquots (approximately 10S cells) were incubated with Lif receptor
       Phycoerythrin (PE) (R & D Systems, MN) conjugated monoclonal antibodies (5 p1
       antibody per 106 cells). Controls included appropriate isotype matched antibodies and
       unstained cells. All incubations with antibodies were performed for 30 mins at 4*C
       after which the cells were washed with the staining buffer. Stained cells were sorted
       on a FACS Aria (BD, Ca). RNA (Rneasy Mini Kit, Qiagen, CA) was collected from
                                                  43

       presort sample, Lif receptors fraction and Lif receptor negative fraction. The Lif
       receptor expression level and pattern is summarized in Table IIL.
[0175] Table Ill summarizes the expression of Lif receptor at days 2 and 3 of stage 2. By
       day 3 of stage 2, approximately7O% of the cells expressed Lif receptor. As
       summarized in Table III, high expression of Lif receptor was unique to stage 2 cells,
       as stage 3 and 4 cells showed minimal expression of Lif receptor. As shown in Figure
       11, panels a-b, stage 2 cells enriched for the Lif receptor showed a significant increase
       in expression of HNF4 alpha as compared to unsorted cells or Lif receptor negative
       cells. Expression of Lif receptor mRNA as measured by real-time PCR was also
       enhanced in cell fraction containing Lif-receptor positive cells.
                                                Example 4
         Magnetic Bead Sorting for Cells for the Depletion of SSEA-4+ Cells to Reduce
                                       Tumor Formation in Vivo
[0176] Expression of the SSEA4antigen is a key indicator of pluripotency in human
       embryonic stem cells, and expression of this marker is greatly down regulated during
       the differentiation process. However, residual SSEA-4 positive cells may be
       responsible for tumors and/or teratomas that am observed following transplantation of
       partially differentiated cells. To reduce teratoma formation, methods were developed
       to deplete contaminating SSEA4* cells from differentiated cells prior to
       transplantation.
101771 Cells of the human embryonic stem cell line HI (passage 40-52) were differentiated
       to various stages of the differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1. In order to test
       proof of concept and efficacy of SSEA-4 depletion, this study was first done with
       cells differentiated only to the primitive gut tube stage (Stage 2 in the differentiation
       protocol outlined in Example 1) in order to ensure cells still retained higher levels of
       SSEA-4 expression. In subsequent experiments, cells expressing SSEA-4 were
       depleted in populations of cells differentiated at Stage 4 of the differentiation protocol
       outline in Example 1. See Table V for the results observed. Cells were gently released
       into single cells by incubation in TrypLE Express (Invitrogen # 12604, CA) for 2-3
       minutes at 37*C. To enhance cell survival and viability during depletion, anti
                                                   44

       apoptotic agents including 10pM Y-27632 (Cat # Y 0503, Sigma, St Louis MO) or
       0.5gM Thiazovivin (Cat # 04-0017, Stemgent, San Diego, CA) were added to the
       cells prior to collection and in all isolation buffers.
101781 Cells were washed in Isolation Buffer containing Ca2 and Mg* free phosphate
       buffered saline (PBS) supplemented with 0.1 % BSA and 2mM EDTA. Between 10
        100 x 106 cells were re-suspended in isolation buffer a final cell density of 5 x 106
       cells per 500 p. Twenty five pl SSEA-4 antibody was added per 500 pl of cells and
       cells incubated for 15-20 minutes at room temperature on a gentle rocker to ensure
       continuous mixing. Cells were washed in isolation buffer by spinning at 300xg for 8
       min. Supernatant was removed and cells re-suspended in original buffer volume and
       50 pl of prewashed SSEA-4 Depletion beads (DynaBeads@ SSEA4, Invitrogen,
       #11 160D) added for every 500 pl of cell suspension. Cells and beads were mixed and
       incubated for 15-20 minutes at room temperature with continuous gentle tilling and
       rotation. Cells were mixed by gentle pipetting and placed on a magnet for 5 min. The
       supernatant containing SSEA-4 negative cells was transfen-ed to a new tube and the
       process repeated 2-3 times to remove residual beads. Bead-bound SSEA4' cells were
       released from magnetic field and both cells populations counted and processed for
       FACS and PCR analysis. The expression levels of SSEA4 in undifferentiated HI
       cells, primitive gut cells and Stage IV cells, in both pre-sorted and sorted cell
       fractions is summarized in Table V.
[0179] In populations of cells isolated at stage II of the differentiation protocol outlined in
       Example 1, 20.5 % of the cells expressed SSEA4 markers in prior to sorting. In
       contrast, only 1.8% of the cells expressed the SSEA4 post sort (Table V). The
       depletion resulted in removal of91.2% ofthe SSEA-4 positive cells. In another
       experiment using endocrine precursor cells, 25.3% of cells expressed SSEA-4 prior to
       depletion, but only 0.9% expressed SSEA-4 after depletion, resulting in 95.5 %
       removal of SSEA-4 positive cells (Table V). In contrast to differentiated cells, 91.2%
       of the population of undifferentiated embryonic stem cells expressed SSEA4.
101801 The sorted SSEA4' cells were highly enriched for the expression of pluripotency
       markers, including OCT4, NANOG, SOX2 and goosecoid (Figure 12 panels a-d).
                                                     45

                                               Example 5
                        Sorting of SSEA4*o") and SSEA4 4 0 ) Cells by FACS
[0181] In order to investigate and confirm the depletion of pluripotent-marker (SSEA-4+)
       enriched cells from differentiated cells by flow cytometry, cells were differentiated to
       Stage VI as described in Example 1. Cells were released from culture using TrypleE
       Express cell dissociation buffer and cells prepared for sorting as described in Example
       2. The SSEA-4 antibody (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN, Cat # FABI435P) was
       used to isolate two cell fractions identified as SSEA-4(+)Hi and SSEA-4(-)Lo cells.
       Isolated cell fractions were analyzed for expression of pluripotency markers by RT
       PCR as described in Example 4. Similar to SSEA-4 depleted and enriched fractions
       obtained using magnetic beads separation, as described in Example 5, the sorted
       SSEA-4(+)Hi cells were highly enriched for the expression of pluripotency markers
       OCT4, NANOG, SOX2 and goosecoid, unlike the SSEA-4(-)Lo cells. See Figure 13
       panels a-d.
                                              Example 6
                 Transplantation of SSEA-4 Depleted Populations of Cells in Vivo
10182] In pilot experiments, SSEA4 depleted cells weredifferentiated to Stage IV of the
       differentiation protocol outlined in Example 1, and then transplanted into the kidney
       capsule of mice to test cell survival and engrafiment. The data from the transplanted
       mice is summarized in Table VI.
[01831 Five to six-week-old male scid-beige mice (C.B-lgh- I b/GbmnsTac-P1rkd&e-L.ysir N7)
       were purchased from Taconic Farms. Mice were housed in microisolator cages with
       free access to sterilized food and water. In preparation for surgery, mice were
       identified by ear tagging and their body weight measured and their blood glucose
       determine by a hand held glucometer (One Touch, LifeScan). Mice were anesthetized
       with a mixture of isolflurane and oxygen and the surgical site was shaved with small
       animal clippers. Mice were dosed with 0.1 mg/kg Buprenex subcutaneously pre
       operatively. The surgical site was prepared with successive washes of 70% isopropyl
       alcohol, 10% povidone-iodide, and 70% isopropyl alcohol and a left lateral incision
                                                    46

       was made through the skin and muscle layers. The left kidney was externalized and
       kept moist with 0.9% sodium chloride. A 24G x %'I.V. catheter was used to
       penetrate the kidney capsule and the needle was removed. The catheter was then
       advanced under the kidney capsule to the distal pole of the kidney.
101841 During the preoperative preparation of the mice, the cells were centrifuged in a 1.5
       mL microfuge tube and most of the supernatant removed, leaving just enough to
       collect the pellet of cells. The cells were collected into a Rainin Pos-D positive
       displacement pipette and the pipette was inverted to allow for the cells to settle by
       gravity. The excess media was dispensed leaving a packed cell preparation for
       transplant.
101851 For transplantation, the Pos-D pipette tip was placed firmly in the hub of the catheter
       and the cells dispensed from the pipette through the catheter under the kidney capsule
       and delivered to the distal pole of the kidney. The lumen of the catheter was flushed
       with asmall volume of culture media to deliver the remaining cells and the catheter
       withdrawn. The kidney capsule was sealed with a low temperature cautery and the
       kidney was returned its original anatomical position. The muscle was closed with
       continuous sutures using 5-0 vicryl and the skin closed with wound clips. Mice were
       dosed with 1.0 mg/kg Metacam subcutaneously post-operatively. The mouse was
       removed from the anesthesia and allowed to fully recover.
101861 Following transplantation, mice were weighed once per week and blood glucose
       measured twice a week. At various intervals following transplantation, mice were
       dosed with 3 g/kg glucose IP and blood drawn via the retro-orbital sinus 60 minutes
       following glucose injection into microfuge tubes containing a small amount of
       heparin. The blood was centrifuged and the plasma placed into asecond microfuge
       tube and frozen on dry ice and then stored at -80*C until human c-peptide assay was
       performed. Human c-peptide levels were determined using the MercodiaIALPCO
       Diagnotics Ultrasensitive C-peptide ELISA according to the manufacturer's
       instructions.
                                                   47

[0187] At the time of sacrifice, blood was collected as described above and mice euthanized.
       The grafts wer harvested from the kidney capsule and analyzed by real-time qPCR,
       immunohistochemistry, and pathology.
101881 Three groups of mice were transplanted with about 3.3 million cells each comprising
       of i) cell clusters ii) single cells (undepleted) and iii) SSEA4 depleted single cells.
       Cells differentiated to Stage IV were either released with gentle carping to make
       small cell clusters, or released with TrypleE into single cells for SSEA-4 depletion.
       Following SSEA-4 depletion as outlined in Example 5 , both cell clusters and single
       cell prepations were replated in low attachment plates (Costar, Coming
       Incorporated, NY Cat # 3471) overnight in precursor (Stage IV) cell differentiation
       medium prior to transplantation. The rock inhibitor Y-27632 dihydrochrolide
       monohydrate (Sigma, Cat # Y0503) was added to the culture overnight at a
       concentration of 10 pM. Following transplants, mice were monitored as described
       above for up to 12 weeks post transplants. Graft survival was not visibly
       demonstrated in the single cells recipients (depleted or undepleted) but was shown in
       2 out of 5 mice receiving cell clusters. One out of 5 mice receiving cell clusters had
       detectable c-peptide levels at 12 weeks post transplantation. Poor graft survival was
       attributed to diminished cell quality and low numbers of cells transplanted in the pilot
       experiment.
101891 The multi-step differentiation of human embryonic cells into mature, pancreatic
       endocrine cells through several intermediate steps including definitive endoderm
       (DE), pancreatic endoderm (PE) and pancreatic precursors is associated with dynamic
       changes in expression of surface markers. Although the differentiation protocol may
       produce as yet undefined, heterogeneous cell populations of multiple lineages
       including ectodermal and mesodermal cell types, tracking the changes in expmssion
       of surface markers in pancreatic differentiation medium could identify markers
       potentially useful in cell enrichment and purification. Table VII shows a summary of
       surface markers that either demonstrated an increase or decrease in expression, that
       may be useful for negative of positive selection of pancreatic endoderm cells.
       Markers that decreased in expression during the differentiation process include
       CDI 17, CD133, CD181, CD184, CD200, CD221, CD326, CD55, CD57, CD9, and
       CD98. Markers that increased in expression during the differentiation process include
                                                    48

       CD13, CD141, CD15, CD31g, CD46, CD47, CD49c, CD49e, CD56, and CD73.
       These markers could singly or in various combinations be used to purify cell
       populations enriched for pancreatic endoderm and precursors.
                                               Example 7
                                Flow Cytometric Sorting Procedures
101901 Cells at different stages of maturation were gently released by incubation in TrypLE
       Express (Invitrogen # 12604, CA) for 2-3 minutes at 37*C and washed twice in BD
       FACS staining buffer containing 2% BSA (BD # 554657, CA). Based on cell yields,
       20-50 x106 single cells were re-suspended in 2-3 ml of blocking buffer (0.5% human
       gamma-globulin diluted 1:4 in staining buffer (BD, CA) for staining. Fluorophore
       conjugated primary antibodies were added to the cells at a final dilution of 1:20 and
       cells and incubated for 30 min at 4" C. Following washes, stained cells were re
       suspended in 2-3 ml staining buffer and 50-60 pi of 7AAD added for live/dead cell
       discrimination prior to analysis and cell sorting. Isotype matched control IgG
       antibodies were used for negative control staining. For calculating fluorophore
       compensation values prior to sorting, cell were either left unstained or stained with
       single fluorphore of Fluoroscein isothiocyanate (FITC), Phycoerythrin (PE) or
       Allophycocyanin (APC) the nuclear dye 7-Aminoactinomucin D (7-AAD).
101911 Cell sorting was done using the BD FACSAria cell sorter and the BD FACSDiva
       software. Isotype matched control cells were used to establish negative gates for each
       cell sorting. For each cell sorting experiment, the photomultiplier (PMT) voltage
       settings were adjusted using the appropriate fluorophore compensation values to
       produce abright population (positive (+) or Hi ) and dim population or cell subset
       (Negative (-) or Lo). Typically, positive cells populations (+ or Hi) were of the order
       of third decade or higher (10     while negative population were in the first to second
       decade(10- 10'). Using established gates, cells were sorted using a 100 pMnozzle
       and a flow rate of 1.0. Following sorting, a small aliquot of cells were analyzed to
       assess the purity of the sorted cell subsets. RNA was collected from the presort and
       sorted cells using the Rneasy Mini Kit, Qiagen, CA) for RT-PCR analysis.
                                                    49

[0192] Publications cited throughout this document are hereby incorporated by reference in
       their entirety. Although the various aspects of the invention have been illustrated
       above by reference to examples and preferred embodiments, it will be appreciated that
       the scope of the invention is defined not by the foregoing description but by the
       following claims properly construed under principles of patent law.
                                                  50

   Table 1. Flow Cytometric Characterization of Surface Marker Expression at
   Different Stages of Endodemal/Pancreatic Differentiation
   Key: ND = Not Determined; +/-         =0-10%; + = 10-50%; ++ = 50-85%; +++=85-100%
Anibody           ynonyms       endorN .     hES        Depuidve PM.It                   Po.eder Endctine Endocrn                    M.are
                                                                  Ednder, G.Tube Fongut Precur-)
                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                              eCe/ls    d1dne
                                                                   S      (SWage   ) (Stage4         /sages)        istae 5)           Ces
                                                         (Stge 1)                                                                    (Sae6)
BLT-R                        BD#552836       ND             +/-            +/-             +/-          +/-            +/-              +/
CD105         Endoglin       Millipord#C     +/-            +/-            +-              +/-          +/-            +/-              +
                               BL418F
CDI 12          PRR2         BD#551057       +/.            +/-            +/.             +/.          +/.            +/-              +/
CDI17            c-kit       BD#3410%         +             +              ++               +           +/-             -               +/
CDI 18     LIFR, gp190       R&D#FAB2        +/.            +/.              +             +/.         +/.             +/.              +/.
                                  49P
CD126           IL-6R        BD#551850       +/.            +/-            +/-             +/-          +-              -               +/
 CD13     Aminopeptida       BD#555394       +/.            +/.            +/-             +/.         +/.             +/-              +/.
                 seN
CD130     IL-6R.gpI30        BD#555757       +/-            +I-            +/-             +/-          +/-            +-               +/
CD132                        BD#55590        +/.            +/              -+/            +/.          +/.            +/               +/
CD133          AC133.        MILTENYI         +              +             ++               +            +              +                +
          prominin-likel      #30-090
                                  854
CD134          OX-40         BD#554848       +/.            +-             +/-             +/-          +/-            +/-              +/
CD135         FIt3/FIk2      BD#5589% |        /-    |       /-      |      +-        |    +-    |      +-       |       -+/
CD137                        BD4550890              +/-              |-      +/-      |     /-   |       /-      |       /-             +
CD137                        BD#559446       +/.            +/             +/              +/.         +/.               /-             +/
Ligand      _____
CD140a        PDGFRa         BD#556002         -.           +/          .           +         .         +/-            +/.              +/
CDI4Ob        PDGFR        | BDM558821 |       /-    |       /-      |        /-          +/.           +/.      |      /-      |        -+/
CD142                        BD#550312       +/-     |          -          +/              +/    |                      +                +
CD146          MUCI8         BD#550315 |+                    +               +        |     /            +              +              ND
 CDI5                        BD#551376 |       /-            +               +              +            +              +                +
CD161                        BD#340536        +/             /-       |    +/-        |     /-   |       /-            +/-              +/
CD164                        BD#551298 |       /-           +/-      [      +.             +/-   |        /-     |       /-             +/
CD178I     FasL,CD95L        BD#555293 |      +-     |       /-      |        /-      |     /-   |       /.      |       /-            ND
CD180                        BD#551953       +/-            41-            +/-             +/-          +/-            +/-              +/
CD181      CXCRI,      IL-   BDO555939       +/-             +             +/-             +/-          +/-            +/-             ND
                 8RA
CD183          CXCR3         BD#550967       +/-            +/             +/              +/-          +/-            +/
CD184     CXCR4, fusin       BD#555976 |       /-    |        +              +        |     /-   |       /-      |       /-              +
CD185          CXCR5       |BD#551959 |        /.           +/-            +/         |.                + |+-           +              ND
CD193           CCR3         BD#558165 |       /-    |       +       |      +         |     /-   |       /-            +/-              +/
CD195           CCR5         BD#55992 |I/-                                                                                      |    /- | /   | /- | /- +/- 
 CDlb                          BD#555969 |     /.    |/-                              |    +/-   |      +-       |       /-             +/
 CD20                          BD#555622 |     /-           +/-      |       /-       |     /-   |       /-      |       /-             +/
CD200           OX-2         BD#552475        +     +         +      |      +               +            +       |+                     ++
CD205                        BD#558069       +/-     |      +        |       /-            +/-   |      +/-      |       /-             +/
CD220         [nsulin-R      BS#559955       +/-            +/-      |+/-                  +/-          +/-            +/-             ND
CD221        IGF-l R       | BD4555999        +      |      +        |     ++               +    |        /.     |        +/.
 C024                        BD#55542B      ++             ++              +++        |++               +++           +++              +++
CD243     MDR..1 P-p         BD#557002       +/-            +/-      |       /        |     /.   |      +/-      |      /-              +
CD252     OX-40 Ligand BD#558164             +/             +/-            +/.                  +/          -|+-                        +/
 CD26                        BD#555436 | +-                 4+-      |+                |    /-   |+-              |      /
CD271          NGFR          BD#557198 |+-                 ND        |+-               |    /-   |+/-            |+-                   ND
CD275                        BD4552502 |       /-    |       /.      |       /.       |    +     |       /.      |      +               +/
 CD28                        BD#555728 |+                   +/41- |+/-                |     /          +/-       |+/-                   +/
                                                  51

 CD29   |Integrin          | BD#559883        ++      |++                ++        ++|++                        [++|       ++
 CD305          LAIRI          RI#55811        +/-           /           +/        +/          +/-             +/-      ND
 CD309       VEGFR2.           BD#560494       +/          +/-           +/-        +/-        +/-             +/-       +/
                 [DR
 CD318       CDCDPI            R&D#FAB2        +/.         +/.           +/.       +/-          +               +         +
                                   6662P
 CD326       Ep-CAM            BD#347197      ++                              ++                 |+       |+          |  +
 CD33                          BD#555450       +/-         +/.           +/-       +/-         +/-             +/-       +/
 CD332         FGFR2.          R&D#FAB6        41-         +/-           +-        +/-         +/-             +/-       +/
                KGFR2               84A
 CD340         ErbB-2,         BD#340553       +/-         +/.           +/.       +/-         +/-             +/.       +/
             HER2/neu
 CD36                          BD4550956       +/.+                                                                          +-    +/.    +/.
 CD39                      |BD555464           4/-    |      /-     |       -      +/-    |      /-     |       /-      ND
 CD42b                     |BD#555472          +/-                       +/-|+-                                                       +/
 CD43                      |BD555475           +/.    |      /.          +/.       +/.         +/       |      +/-      ND
 CD44                          BD#559942       +/-    |      /           4-/       +       /-       -          +/-       +/
 CD46   |       _          | BD#555949          +          +/-      |       -      +/-    |                     +       ND
 CD47                          BD#556046       +/.         +/.             +       +++         ++              ++        ++
 CD49b     a2 Integrin,        BD#555669        +          +/-             +        +           4               +        +
                VLA-2
 CD49c       3 Intogrin,       Abcam#ab3        +           +              +        +           +               +         +
                VLA-3              0489
 CD49      a5 Integrin,        BD#555617        +          +             +++       ++           +               +         +
                VLA-5
 CD49f      a6   Integrin,     BD#555735        +          +/-             +        +           +               +        +/
                VLA-6
 CD55         |              |       555696     +          ++              +       +/-          +               +         +
 CD56           NCAM           8>5D55518        +           +              +        +     |++               |    +      +++.
 CD57   |        _         | BD#555619        ++                               ++|                    +       +     |     +
 CD58           LFA-3          BD555920         +          +/-           +/-       +/-         +/-             +/-       +/
 CD63     LIMP. LAMP-          BD#557288       ND          +/-           +/-       +/-         +/-             +/-       +/
                   3
 CD66                          BD#551480       +/-         +/.           +/        +.          +/-             +/.       +/.
 CD71                      |BD#551374           +           +              +        +     |      /-             4         +
 CD73                      |BD550257           +/-           +/.                    +    +      +               +       ND
 CD74   |BD555540                                         +/-       +/-   J          /    |      /-            +/-      ND
 CD88            C5aR      |8BD#550494         +/.             -          +/-                 |+.          |    /.       +I
  CD9      P24. MRP-1          BD#3555372       +           +                                                            +A/- +/- +- | +/
 CD91                          BD#550496       +/.    |      /      ]    +/.       +/.         +/.               /.      +/.
 CD95       Apo-I, Fas     |BD#555674          +/     |                  +/-       +-          +/-      |       /-      ND
 CD98   ||BD556076                                       +++ |     4+      +       +      |+                   ++         +
 CD99        MIC2, E2      |          _        +/-    |-++               44+       ++         +++             +++   |    +
CDw210         IL-1OR          BD#556013       +/           +            +/-       +/-         +/-             +/-       +I
 DLLI                          R&D#FABI        ND         ND             ND        +/-         +/-             +/-      ND
                                   SISA
 EGFR          ErbB.-I.        BD#555997       +/          +/-           +/-       +-          +/-             +/-       +/
                HERI
 fMLP                          BD#556036         1-|        +1-          +/        4/-    |       -     |       /-  |    +
MICA/B  |       _          | BD#558352         +/..         +            +/        +-     |    +/       |      +/-      ND
 Notchl                        BD#552768       +/.          +            +/.       +/.         +/.             +/-      ND
SSEA-4                         R&D#FABI        +          +++            ++         +           +                         +
                                   435P
TGFBR3                         Lifespan#LS     +/-        ND              +        +/          +/-              +       ND
                                 -C76502
TRAI-60                        BD#560193    -+         |+++               +         +           +               +         +
TRAI-81                        BD#560161      +++     |++                   +       +           +       |                 +
TWEAK |31D552890                                          +--    |    /-      +/   +/
                                                   52

THIS PAGE IS BLANK
       - 53 -

       Table II Surface Markers used to Enrich for Pancreatic Cell Precursors
Surfcc Markes       Stage ofCells Soed        Vendor/        Plioype of      % Swting   % Sored Poulaiion Fold
Used(Singic                                   No.            Enrichd         Pw~oation                    Endrichmen
/Cembinations)                                               Popul ions
CD56/CD13           Endocrine Pecursors (S4)  9D555518/#     CD56CD          64.1       82.1              -1.3
                                              55593
CDI33                                         Millenyit130-  CD131           48.6       92.0              -1.9
                    Endocrine Precuwsars (54) 09.854
CD49c(o-3 Lntegrin  EndocrineProcurs rs(S4)   AbcaN#b304     CD49c'          31.7       95.9              --3.
                                              89
CD5wCD5             EndriPrecusOs(S4)         BD#555318/#    CD56'CDl5'*     26-80      ND                ND
                                              551376
CD1S                Endcrincr ccusors(S4)     BDO551376      CD15            89.6       97.5              -1.)
CDS6/CD57           Endocrine(Precumors(S4)   BD#555518/#    CD56'CD57       313        59.1              -1.9
                    Endocric Cells (S)        555619
CD9&                EndocrineCois (S6)        BD#55676       CD98'           61.3       98.9              -1.6
CD47                Endocn Cells (M, %6)      BD#556046      CD47            22.8       75.A              -3.3
       Table II. Expression levels of LIF Receptor
             Stage of          Stage 2, Day2        Stage 2, Day3        Stage 3, Day4 Stage 4, Day3
        Differentiation
           Expression                47%                  70%                 5%              1%
            Level (%)
                                                           54

Table IV. Expression Levels of CD184 Before and After Enrichment
                                  Pre-sort                               Enriched
                                                                CD184+         CDIS4
                                                                Fraction       Fracon
 Desecption CDI4'tD56-   CDMS4+CD56+    CD14-CDS6-  CD184-      CD184+         CD184+
                                                    CD56,
 F2ion      1%           8%             20%         70%         79%            0.6%
Table V. Expression Levels of SSEA-4 Antigen
    Cells           Stage of               SSEA-4 Expression (%)              % Fold
                Differentiation                                            Depletion
                                     Pre-Depletion | Post-Depletion
     HI        Undifferentiated             91.2            ND                  ND
     HI          PrimitiveGut               20.5            1.8                91.2
                   (Stage I)
     HI            Endocrine                20.1            0.9                95.5
              Precursors (Stage
                       IV)
                                            55

Table VL Summary Data of Mice Transplanted with SSEA4 Depleted Cells
Group           Cell Type       Total Cell    No. of Mice    Grafts at 12    C-Peptide
                               No.                           Week           at 12 Weeks
I              Cell            3.3 million    5              3/5     mice 1/5        mice
               Clusters                                      visible        detectable c
                                                             grafts         peptide
2              Single Cells 3.3 million       5              0/5     mice   0/5      mice
               Undepleted                                    with visible   detectable c
                                                             grafts,        peptide
3              SSEA-4          3.3 million    2              0/2     mice   0/2      mice
                Depleted                                     with visible   detectable c
               Single Cells                                  grafts         peptide
Table VIL Surface Markers Associated with Differentiation of Human Embryonic
Stem cells into Pancreatic and Endodermal Lineages.
Suface Markers               Changes              Surface Markers         Cell Fractions
Changes During               Associated with      Used To Enrich          Enriched
Differentiation              Smface Markers       Pancreatic
DE-PEEndocrine                                    Endodern/Endocrine
         CD117                   Decrease                 ND
          CD13                    Increase                Yes                  CD13
         CD133                   Decrease                 Yes                 CD133
         CD142                   Increase                 ND|
          CD15             |     Increase                 Yes                  CD15
         CD181                   Decrease                 ND
         CD184                   Decrease                 Yes                 CD184+
         CD200                   Decrease                 ND
         CD221                   Decrease                 ND
         CD318                   Increase                 ND
         CD326                   Decrease                 ND
          CD46                   Increase                 ND
          CD47                   Increase                 Yes                  CD47
         CD49c                   Increase                 Yes                 CD49c
         CD49e                   Increase                 ND
          CD55                   Decrease                 ND
          CD56                    Increase                Yes                 CD56+
          CD57                   Decrease                 Yes                 CD57+
          CD73             |     Increase       |         ND            |
           CD9                   Decrease                 ND            |
          CD98                   Decrease                 Yes                 CD98+
    * Changes associated with Surface Markers Denotes if Expression level of the
        particular Surface Marker Increased or Decreased as cell were differentiated
        from Definitive Endoderm (DE, Stage I) to Pancreatic Endoderm (PE, Stage
        1II) and finally to Endocrine Cells (Stage V/VI).
                                            56

EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0193] In one embodiment, the present invention relates to method to enhance the
       generation of insulin-producing cells from a population of cells expressing markers
       characteristic of the pancreatic endocrine lineage comprising the step of:
       a. Culturing a population of pluripotent stem cells,
       b. Differentiating the population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells
       expressing markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage,
       c. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       definitive endoderm lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       primitive gut tube lineage,
       d. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       primitive gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers characteristic
       of the pancreatic endoderm lineage,
       e. Differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endoderm lineage into a population cells expressing markers characteristic
       of the pancreatic endocrine lineage, and
       f. Transplanting at least some of the cells expressing markers characteristic of the
       pancreatic endocrine lineage into a mammalian animal.
[0194] In another embodiment, the population of cells that express markers characteristic of
       the primitive gut tube lineage is enriched.
[0195] In another embodiment, the population of cells that express markers characteristic of
       the primitive gut tube is enriched by contacting the population of cells expressing
       markers characteristic of the primitive gut tube lineage with a reagent that is capable
       of binding the Lif receptor.
[0196] In another embodiment, 4 the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of
       the pancreatic endocrine lineage are brought into contact with at least one reagent
       that is capable of binding to a marker selected from the group consisting of CD9,
       CD13, CD15, CD47, CD56, CD73, CD1 17, CD 133, CD184, CD200, CD318, CD326
       and SSEA4.
[0197] In another embodiment, the mammalian animal is a human
                                              - 57 -

CLAIMS:
1.       A method of enriching a population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
primitive gut tube lineage comprising the step of:
    a. differentiating a population of pluripotent stem cells into a population of cells expressing
         markers characteristic of the definitive endoderm lineage;
     b. differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the definitive
         endoderm lineage into cells expressing markers characteristic of the primitive gut tube
         lineage;
    c. differentiating the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the primitive
         gut tube lineage into a population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
         pancreatic endoderm lineage; and
    d. enriching the population of cells that express markers characteristic of the primitive gut
         tube by contacting the population of cells expressing markers characteristic of the
         primitive gut tube lineage with a reagent that is capable of binding the Lif receptor.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises culturing the population
of pluripotent stem cells.
3.       The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the pluripotent stem cells are human
pluripotent stem cells.
4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the human pluripotent stem cells are human embryonic
stem cells.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the cells expressing markers characteristic of the
definitive endoderm lineage are definitive endoderm cells.
6.       The method of claim 1 or claim 5, wherein the cells expressing markers characteristic
of the primitive gut tube lineage are primitive gut tube cells.
7.       A method of producing pancreatic endocrine precursor cells comprising differentiating
the enriched population of posterior foregut cells produced by the method of claim 1 into
pancreatic endocrine precursor cells.
8.       A method of enriching a population of primitive gut tube cells comprising contacting a
population of the primitive gut tube cells with a reagent that is capable of binding the Lif
receptor.

9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the primitive gut tube cells are obtained by step-wise
differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells.
10.     The method of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the human pluripotent stem cells are human
embryonic stem cells.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the primitive gut tube cells are obtained by a method
comprising
     a. differentiating a population of human pluripotent stem cells into a population of definitive
        endoderm cells; and
     b. differentiating the population of definitive endoderm cells into primitive gut tube cells.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises culturing the population
of pluripotent stem cells.
13.     The method of claim 8 further comprising differentiating the enriched population of
posterior foregut cells produced into pancreatic endocrine precursor cells.
14.     An isolated population of pancreatic endocrine precursor cells produced by the method
of claim 13.
15.      Use of the population of pancreatic endocrine precursor cells of claim 14 in medicine.
16.     A method of treating or preventing an insulin-related disease or disorder comprising
transplanting the population of pancreatic endocrine precursor cells of claim 14 to a patient in
need thereof.
17.     An isolated population of primitive gut tube cells produced by the method of any one of
claims 1 to 12.
18.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the pluripotent stem cells are human
pluripotent stem cells.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the human pluripotent stem cells are human
embryonic stem cells.
20.      Use of the population of pancreatic endocrine precursor cells of claim 14 for the
manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing an insulin-related disease or disorder.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
