                              SULPHATE SALTS OF
  N-(3-(4-(3-(DIISOBUTYLAMINO)PROPYL)PIPERAZIN-1-YL)PROPYL)
 1H-BENZO[D]IMIDAZOL-2-AMINE, PREPARATION THEREOF AND USE
                                  OF THE SAME
                                      Abstract
         The      present    invention     relates    to     sulphate    salts     of
N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2
amine   and pharmaceutically    acceptable   solvates thereof, preparation   thereof,
pharmaceutical compositions containing them and use of the same in the treatment
and/or prevention of neurodegenerative diseases.

                                                 1
SULPHATE        SALTS      OF    N-(3-(4-(3-(DIISOBUTYLAMINO)PROPYL)PIPERAZIN-1
YL)PROPYL)-1H-BENZO[d]IMIDAZOL-2-AMINE,                      PREPARATION        THEREOF     AND
USE OF THE SAME
        The present application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2013369288
the entire contents of which is incorporated by reference.
        The    present   invention    relates   to     novel   sulphate   salts   of  N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperzin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-anine                     and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof, their preparation, pharmaceutical compositions
containing them and use of the same in the treatment and/or prevention of neurodegenerative
diseases.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylanino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2
amine which has the structure of Formula I
                                            Formula I
belongs to a family of 1,4-bis(3-aminopropyl)piperazine derivatives previously disclosed in
W02006/051489        and   which   are   useful    for   the  treatment   and/or   prevention   of
neurodegenerative diseases.
        The free base form of this compound presents long term stability issues likely due to
oxidations occurring at the piperazine ring. In addition, the free base form does not crystallize.

                                                 2
In terms of pharmaceutical development, crystalline forms of active ingredients are indeed
preferred. They generally overcome stability issues and open up to crystallization and/or
recrystallization processes which are suitable for industrial scale purification, high batch to
batch reproducibility, in particular with regards to crystallinity.
        Although it is known that the salification of a pharmaceutically active molecule
(PAM) may improve its physico-chemical properties, the selection of a suitable salt remains a
complex process. Indeed, improving physico-chemical properties goes way beyond obtaining
stable solid materials. These solids must comprise a crystallized phase which has a good
crystallinity and a defined morphology. In other aspects, salt forms may provide other benefits
such as improving water solubility but can also be equally detrimental due to hygroscopicity,
stability issues or intreseque toxicity. Hence, salt selection cannot be made arbitrarily and
warrants in depth studies in the first place.
         The oxalate    salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, which by the way was reported in W02006/051489, partly
overcomes the above-mentioned drawbacks encountered with the free base. However, 4
equivalents of oxalic acid are necessary to obtain the oxalate salt as a stable powder.
Consequently, the percentage by weight of pharmaceutically active molecule with oxalate
salts drops to as low as 54%. The amount of drug to be administered for a given dose of PAM
is thus significantly increased.
         Furthermore, oxalates are not considered       as one of the most pharmaceutically
acceptable    salt anymore. Oxalate     salts are in certain cases nephrotoxic,    for instance
naftidofuryl oxalate is known to cause calcium oxalate crystalluria and thus kidney stones in
elderly patients. In addition, due to the low solubility of calcium oxalate, increased
concentration of calcium oxalate in body fluids, including urine (hyperoxaluria), can lead to
the deposition of calcium oxalate (oxalosis) in the kidney tissue (nephrocalcinosis) or urinary
tract (urolithiasis). Oxalosis can involve many different organs when kidneys fail to clear
calcium oxalate. Deposits in blood vessels can cause painful skin ulcers that do not heal,
deposits in bone marrow cause anaemia and deposits in the heart cause abnormalities of heart
rhythm or poor heart function. Patients suffering from neurodegenerative           diseases are
generally old and suffer from other pathologies for which they receive other medications.
Their kidneys are thus already highly solicited for the excretion of the drugs taken by these

                                                   3
patients who by the way are less aware of thirst sensations and thus prone to dehydration.
Excess calcium oxalate is eventually excreted in patients who have healthy kidneys and who
drink a lot of water. Excess calcium oxalate is indeed a real issue in therapy, especially for the
elderly. In addition, treatments of neurodegenerative diseases are often chronic, over very
long periods of time, if not over lifetime. Applicant considered that due to their potential
kidney and urinary tract toxicity, oxalate salts would add an undue burden to patients already
weakened by their condition. Applicant thus considered oxalate salts as pharmaceutically
unacceptable, especially since N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine requires 4 equivalents of the salt counter-ion to remain stable.
Therefore, even though oxalate salts allow obtaining stable solid materials, they imply risking
toxic side effects.
         There is thus still a need in the art for stable, crystalline and non hygroscopic salts of
N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine
that do not present the above-mentioned drawbacks in terms of salt formation and toxicity.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention is based on the unexpected findings that sulphate salts of N-(3
(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine              provide
stable free flowing crystalline powders which are not hygroscopic and satisfy to the
demanding criteria set forth above.
         A first aspect of the invention provides for a method for treating and/or preventing a
disease    selected   from    neurodegenerative     diseases,   amyloidopathies    and   tauopathies
comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
sulphate        salt     of       N-(3 -(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine        or   a   pharmaceutically     acceptable   solvate   thereof,   or  a
pharmaceutical       composition        comprising      a     sulphate     salt    of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                 or       a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier, diluent, excipient and/or adjuvant

                                                   4
        A second aspect of the invention provides for a method for treating and/or preventing
a disease, wherein a dysfunction of the APP metabolism and/or a dysfunction of the Tau
proteins phosphorylation is observed comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a
pharmaceutically       effective      amount      of     a     sulphate     salt     of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                  or        a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
sulphate       salt      of       N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof and at least one
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient and/or adjuvant.
        A third aspect of the invention provides for use of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                        and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for use in
treating   and/or   preventing      a   disease    selected   from    neurodegenerative     diseases,
amyloidopathies and tauopathies.
        A fourth aspect of the invention provides for use of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                        and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for use in
treating and/or preventing a disease, wherein a dysfunction of the APP metabolism and/or a
dysfunction of the Tau proteins phosphorylation is observed.
         The     invention      thus      concerns      a    sulphate      salt      of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                        and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof.
         Sulphate   salts   of    N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol- 2 -amine and solvates thereof are obtained as powders which have a
crystalline phase with good crystallinity and defined morphology. The sulphate salts of the
invention are moreover especially suitable for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions
containing them. They are pharmaceutically acceptable and up to the Applicant's knowledge
they are not associated with any intreseque toxicity of any kind. In this respect, Applicant has
carried   out   several   in   vivo    chronic   studies    with   sulphate    salts   of N-(3-(4-(3-

                                                  5
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperzin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-anine              and has not
observed any unexpected toxicity event to date.
       Moreover, when compared to other salts, such as oxalate salts, the lower molecular
weight   of   sulphate    ions    allows   for   an   increased      weight    ratio of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperzin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-anine             relative to the
total weight of the salt thereof For instance, the percentage by weight of PAM with
disulphate salts is of 69%. Therefore, when compared to the oxalate salt, the amount of
sulphate salt required for a given dose of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-l
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine is reduced. This in return decreases the amount of
product administered to a patient and consequently reduces the production costs of
pharmaceutical    compositions      containing N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The   compounds      of    the   invention   are       sulphate  salts    of of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperzin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-anine                         and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof More particularly, the sulphate salts of the
invention and solvates thereof are those of Formula II
                               N
                                \      H             (H 2 S0 4 )X
                          X
                               H
                                             Formula II
wherein x is 0.5 to 4, preferably x is 0.5 to 3.5, more preferably x is 0.9 to3.

                                                 6
In other words,       the sulphate   salt  of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine contains 0.5 to 4 equivalents, preferably 0.5 to 3.5
equivalents, more preferably 0.9 to 3 equivalents of sulphate for one molecule of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperzin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
         In one embodiment, x is 2.5 to 3.5, preferably 2.6 to 3.2, more preferably x is 2.8 to 3,
even more preferably x is about 2.9 or x is 2.9.
         In another embodiment, x is 1.5 to 2.5, preferably x is 1.5 to 2.1, more preferably x is
1.7 to 1.9, even more preferably x is about 1.8 or x is 1.8.
         In yet another embodiment, x is 0.5 to 1.5, preferably x is 0.7 to 1.3, more preferably x
is 0.9 to 1.1, even more preferably x is about I or x is 1.
         In another embodiment, x is 1.7 to 2.3, preferably x is 1.9 to 2.1, more preferably x is
about 2 or x is 2.
         In a particular embodiment, the sulphate salt of Formula II is in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate, preferably a hydrate. The solvate stoichiometry is
between 0.5 to 5, preferably between I to 4, more preferably between 1.5 to 2.5, still more
preferably y is 1.8 to 2.2, even more preferably 2 or about 2 molecules of solvate for 1
molecule of sulphate salt of Formula II.
         Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable solvates of sulphate salts of Formula II are
those of Formula III
                              N
                                     H
                               H
                              H

                                                  7
                                             Formula III
wherein
x is as defined above in Formula II, and
y is 0.5 to 5, preferably y is I to 4, more preferably y is 1.5 to 2.5, still more preferably y is
1.8 to 2.2, even more preferably y is about 2 or y is 2.
         Preferred compounds of Formula III are those wherein, x is 0.5 to 1.5, preferably 0.8
to 1.2, more preferably x is 0.9 to 1.1, even more preferably x is about I or x is 1.
         Particularly preferred compounds of the invention are compounds of Formula III
wherein x is about I and y is about 2, or x is 1 and y is 2.
        Applicant        has     shown      that     a     sulphate    salt     of     N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                     and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof are useful for rectifying the metabolism of the
Amyloid Protein Precursor (APP) on four essential points:
         1)          increasing the carboxy-terminal fragments of APP (APP-CTFs) which all in
                     common possess the last 50 amino-acids of APP, and especially those
                     having potential physiological activities, such as the    t-stubs (APP-CTF
                     alpha) and the y-stubs (APP-CTF gamma or AICD for APP intra cellular
                     domain),
         2)          increasing     the     secretion     of     sAPP       U    that     presents
                     neuroprotective/neurotrophic properties,
         3)          decreasing the production of the neurotoxic by-products of APP, i.e.        p
                     anyloid (AP) peptides, especially in their form x-42,
         4)          without modifying the APP expression and in absence of neurotoxicity.
         The sulphate salts of the invention and solvates thereof are indeed useful in orienting
APP metabolism towards non-amyloidogenic              pathways in the frontal cortex and the
hippocampus.

                                                  8
        Applicant     has    also    shown       that    a    sulphate    salt   of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin- I -yl)propyl)- 1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                  and
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof are useful for altering the pathological Tau
protein phosphorylation while alleviating oxidative stress processes. Tau proteins interact
with tubulin to stabilize microtubules and promote tubulin assembly into microtubules,
microtubule stability being controlled by isoforms and phosphorylation. Tau pathologies
comprise mechanisms leading to abnormal modifications of microtubule-associated Tau
proteins, progressive aggregation and accumulation into fibrillar material inside degenerating
neurons to form the so-called neurofibrillary tangles (NFT).
        In addition, and contrary to other salts, their physico-chemical properties are especially
useful with regards to drug formulation or safety, solubility, stability, crystallinity,
morphology and toxicity.
        The sulphate salts of the invention are thus useful as a medicament, in particular for
treating or preventing neurodegenerative diseases and all diseases wherein a dysfunction of
the APP metabolism is observed, including but not limited to Alzheimer's disease, amyloid
angiopathies, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Down syndrome.
        The sulphate salts of the invention are thus useful as a medicament, in particular for
treating or preventing neurodegenerative diseases and all diseases wherein a dysfunction of
the Tau proteins phosphorylation is observed, including but not limited to tauopathies such as
frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
        Hence,    the    invention    also    concerns     a    sulphate   salt   of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine               or       a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof as defined herein for use in treating and/or
preventing a disease selected from neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease,
dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with frontotemporal
dementia, inclusion body myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal
dementia (IBMPFD), frontotemporal          lobar degeneration,     synucleopathies, Huntington's
disease and Parkinson's disease, amyloidopathies including amyloid angiopathies, tauopathies
including   frontotemporal    dementia     with    Parkinsonism    linked   to  chromosome      17,
neuromuscular diseases with protein inclusions, as well as developmental diseases including
Down syndrome. Preferably, the disease is selected from Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic

                                                   9
lateral sclerosis (ALS) with frontotemporal dementia, inclusion body myopathy with Paget's
disease    of bone      and/or   frontotemporal    dementia     (IBMPFD),     frontotemporal    lobar
degeneration,    synucleopathies, Huntington's disease, amyloidopathies           including amyloid
angiopathies, tauopathies including frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to
chromosome       17. More preferably,      the disease is selected from Alzheimer's          disease,
synucleopathies, amyloidopathies including amyloid angiopathies, and tauopathies including
frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17. Even more preferably,
the disease is selected from Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies including frontotemporal
dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
        In other terms, the invention also provides for a method of treating and/or preventing a
disease   selected    from    neurodegenerative     diseases,   amyloidopathies,    tauopathies   and
developmental diseases, in particular those cited above as well as embodiments thereof,
comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
sulphate        salt      of       N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof as described
herein. In a particular embodiment, the disease is selected from Alzheimer's disease and
tauopathies.
        In one particular embodiment, the invention also concerns a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4
(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                or     a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof as defined herein for use in delaying in a patient
the onset of a disease selected from neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's
disease, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with
frontotemporal dementia, inclusion body myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or
frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD), frontotemporal lobar degeneration, synucleopathies,
Huntington's      disease    and   Parkinson's    disease,    amyloidopathies    including   amyloid
angiopathies, tauopathies including frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to
chromosome 17, neuromuscular diseases with protein inclusions, as well as developmental
diseases including Down syndrome. Preferably, the disease is selected from Alzheimer's
disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with frontotemporal dementia, inclusion body
myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD),
frontotemporal lobar degeneration, synucleopathies, Huntington's disease, amyloidopathies
including    amyloid     angiopathies,   tauopathies    including  frontotemporal     dementia   with

                                                 10
Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17. More preferably, the disease is selected from
Alzheimer's disease, synucleopathies, amyloidopathies including amyloid angiopathies, and
tauopathies including frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
Even more preferably, the diseases are selected from Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies
including frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
        In other terms, the invention provides for a method for delaying in a patient the onset
of a disease selected from neurodegenerative diseases, amyloidopathies, tauopathies and
developmental diseases, in particular those cited above as well as embodiments thereof,
comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
sulphate salt of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof. In a particular
embodiment, the disease is selected from Alzheimer's disease and tauopathies.
        According to a further feature of the present invention there is provided a method for
modulating APP metabolism, in a patient, preferably a warm blooded animal, and even more
preferably a human, in need of such treatment, which comprises administering to said patient
an effective amount of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine       of the present invention, or a phannaceutically
acceptable solvate thereof.
        According to still a further feature of the present invention there is provided a method
for altering pathological Tau protein phosphorylation while alleviating oxidative stress
processes in a patient, preferably a warm blooded animal, and even more preferably a human,
in need of such treatment, which comprises administering to said patient an effective amount
of    sulphate      salt    of  N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate
thereof.
        The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sulphate salt
of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine
or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof as described herein and at least one
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient and/or adjuvant. In one embodiment,
the invention also covers pharmaceutical compositions which contain, in addition to a
sulphate       salt      of     N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-

                                                 11
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine       or a pharmaceutically      acceptable  solvate thereof as active
ingredient, additional therapeutic agents and/or active ingredients.
        According      to    one     embodiment,      the    sulphate    salts  of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine            of      the
invention, as well as their pharmaceutical acceptable solvates may be administered as part of a
combination therapy. Thus, are included within the scope of the present invention
embodiments comprising co-administration of compositions and medicaments which contain,
in addition to a sulphate salt of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate
thereof as active ingredient, additional therapeutic agents and/or active ingredients. Such
multiple drug regimens, often referred to as "combination therapy", may be used in the
treatment and/or prevention of any of the diseases or conditions mediated by or associated
with APP metabolism modulation. The use of such combinations of therapeutic agents is
especially pertinent with respect to the treatment of the above-mentioned neurodegenerative
diseases within a patient in need of treatment or one at risk of becoming such a patient.
        In addition to the requirement of therapeutic efficacy, which may necessitate the use
of     active    agents     in    addition    to    the     sulphate    salts   of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                     or
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof, there may be additional rationales which
compel or highly recommend the use of combinations of drugs involving active ingredients
which represent adjunct therapy, i.e., which complement and supplement the function
performed by the sulphate salts of N-(3 -(4-(3 -(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin- 1-yl)propyl)
1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine        of the present invention or phannaceutically acceptable
solvates thereof Suitable supplementary therapeutic agents used for the purpose of auxiliary
treatment include drugs which, instead of directly treating and/or preventing a disease or
condition mediated by or associated with APP metabolism, treat diseases or conditions which
directly result from or indirectly accompany the basic or underlying APP metabolism
modulated disease or condition.
        According to a further feature of the present invention, a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,                     a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof may be used in combination therapy with other
drugs used for treating Alzheimer's disease. More particularly, the compound of Formula 11,
as well as pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, may be used as an adjunct therapy in

                                                 12
combination with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, including but not limited to donepezil (CAS
n' 120014-06-4) and salts and solvates thereof, galantamine (CAS n' 357-70-0) and salts and
solvates thereof, rivastigmine (CAS n' 123441-03-2) and salts and solvates thereof, tacrine
(CAS n' 321-64-2) and salts and solvates thereof, or in combination with NMDA glutamate
receptor antagonists, including but not limited to memantine (CAS n' 19982-08-2) and salts
and solvates thereof, or in combination with dual acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and NMDA
glutamate receptor antagonist, including but not limited to huperzine A (CAS n 102518-79-6)
and salts and solvates thereof, or in combination with glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1)
agonists, including but not limited to liraglutide (CAS n' 204656-20-2) and salts and solvates
thereof, exenatide (CAS n' 141732-76-5) and salts and solvates thereof, or in combination
with retinoids, including but not limited to acitretin (CAS n' 55079-83-9) and salts and
solvates thereof, or in combination with calcium channel blockers (CCB), including but not
limited to nilvadipine (CAS n' 75530-68-6) and salts and solvates thereof, nitrendipine (CAS
n' 39562-70-4) and salts and solvates thereof, nimodipine (CAS n'66085-59-4) and salts and
solvates thereof or in combination with angiotensin receptor blockers, including but not
limited to valsartan (CAS n' 137862-53-4) and salts and solvates thereof, or in combination
with tetracycline antibiotics, including but not limited to minocycline (CAS n' 10118-90-8)
and salts and solvates thereof.
        Thus, the methods of treatment and pharmaceutical compositions of the present
invention may employ a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof in
monotherapy. However, said methods and compositions may also be used multiple therapy in
which one or more sulphate           salts of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine or their pharmaceutically acceptable solvates are
co-administered in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents.
        In the above-described embodiment, combinations of sulphate salts of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine           or      a
pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof and other therapeutic active agents may be
administered, in terms of dosage forms, either separately or in conjunction with each other,
and in terns of their time of administration, either serially or simultaneously. Thus, the
administration of one component agent may be prior to, concurrent with, or subsequent to the
administration of the other component agent(s).

                                                 13
         Generally,    for   pharmaceutical     use,  the   sulphate      salts  of   N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine                      or
pharmaceutically     acceptable  solvates thereof may be formulated          as a pharmaceutical
composition comprising at least one sulphate salt of the invention or a pharmaceutically
acceptable solvate thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent,
excipient and/or adjuvant, and optionally one or more further therapeutic agents and/or active
ingredients.
         By means of non-limiting examples, pharmaceutical composition may be in a dosage
form suitable for oral administration, for parenteral administration (such as by intravenous,
intramuscular or subcutaneous injection or intravenous infusion), for topical administration
(including ocular), for administration by inhalation, by a skin patch, by an implant, by a
suppository, etc. Such suitable administration forms - which may be solid, semi-solid or
liquid, depending on the manner of administration - as well as methods and carriers, diluents
and excipients for use in the preparation thereof, will be clear to the skilled person; reference
is made to the latest edition of Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences. The pharmaceutical
compositions may be formulated in solid form and re-dissolved or suspended prior to use.
         Some preferred, but non-limiting examples of dosage forms include tablets, pills,
powders, lozenges, sachets, cachets, elixirs, suspensions, emulsions, solutions, syrups,
aerosols, ointments, cremes, lotions, soft and hard gelatin capsules, suppositories, drops,
sterile injectable solutions and sterile packaged powders (which are usually reconstituted prior
to use) for administration as a bolus and/or for continuous administration, which may be
formulated with carriers, excipients, and diluents that are suitable per se for such
formulations, such as lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches, gum acacia,
calcium phosphate, alginates, tragacanth, gelatin, calcium silicate, microcrystalline cellulose,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycol, cellulose, (sterile) water, methylcellulose, methyl
and propylhydroxybenzoates, talc, magnesium stearate, edible oils, vegetable oils and mineral
oils or suitable mixtures thereof. The pharmaceutical compositions can optionally contain
other substances that are commonly used in pharmaceutical formulations, such as lubricating
agents, wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, dispersing agents, disintegrating
agents,   stabilizing agents, isotonic agents, bulking agents,       fillers, preserving agents,
sweetening agents, flavouring agents, perfuming agents, colouring agents, antibacterial agents
and/or antifungal agents such as parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, dispensing

                                                  14
agents, flow regulators, release agents, etc. The compositions may also be formulated so as to
provide rapid, sustained or delayed release of the active compound(s) contained therein.
        The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are preferably in a unit dosage
form, and may be suitably packaged, for example in a box, blister, vial, bottle, sachet,
ampoule or in any other suitable single-dose or multi-dose holder or container (which may be
properly labeled); optionally with one or more leaflets containing product information and/or
instructions for use. Generally, such unit dosages will contain between 0.05 and 1000 mg, and
usually between I and 500 mg, of the at least one compound of the invention, e.g. about 10,
25, 50, 100, 200, 300 or 400 mg per unit dosage.
        Usually, depending on the condition to be prevented or treated and the route of
administration, the active compound of the invention will usually be administered between
0.01 to 100 mg per kilogram, more often between 0.1 and 50 mg, such as between 1 and 25
mg, for example about 0.5, 1, 5, 10, 15, 20 or 25 mg, per kilogram body weight of the patient
per day, which may be administered as a single daily dose, divided over one or more daily
doses, or essentially continuously, e.g. using a drip infusion.
        All references to compounds of Formula II include references to solvates, in particular
compounds of Formula III, multi- component complexes and liquid crystals thereof.
        The compounds disclosed throughout the present application were named using
ChemDraw      Ultra version 12.0 (CambridgeSoft, Cambridge, MA, USA).
        N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylanino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
amine can be obtained as disclosed in W02006/051489. The sulphate salts and solvates
thereof can be prepared according to techniques known in the art such as those involving
precipitation, crystallization, recrystallization, lyophilisation, phase transfer or ion exchange
resins.
DEFiNITIONS
        The term "solvate" is used herein to describe a compound in this invention that
contains stoichiometric or sub-stoichiometric amounts of one or more pharmaceutically

                                                15
acceptable solvent molecule such as ethanol. The term "hydrate" refers to when the said
solvent is water. The pharmaceutically acceptable solvent molecules may be co-crystallized
with the compound of the invention, and/or be present in crystalline and/or amorphous phases
of solids thereof, and/or be adsorbed thereto.
        The term "Alzheimer's disease" as used herein, designates all types of Alzheimer's
disease, including but not limited to the sporadic and familial types.
        The    term  "inclusion   body   myopathy    with   Paget's    disease of bone  and/or
frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD)" as used herein, is a type of myopathy, more specifically
an inherited adult onset multisystem disease that affects muscle, bone and the central nervous
system. Patients with this condition can present with a variety of manifestations, comprising
inclusion body myopathy, Paget's Disease of the bone, frontotemporal dementia and/or
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease).
        The term "dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB)" as used herein, also known as Lewy
body dementia, diffuse Lewy body disease, cortical Lewy body disease and senile dementia of
Lewy type, is a type of dementia closely associated with both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's
diseases. It is characterized by the presence of Lewy bodies, clumps of alpha-synuclein and
ubiquitin protein in neurons, detectable in post mortem brain histology.
        The term "synucleopathies" as used herein means a disease of the central nervous
system characterized by alpha synuclein-positive depositions in neurons.
        The term "amyloid angiopathies" as used herein means diseases related to amyloid
deposits forming in the walls of the blood vessels of the central nervous system.
        The term "tauopathies" as used herein means neurodegenerative diseases associated
with the pathological aggregation of tau protein in the human brain.
        The term "developmental diseases" as used herein means any condition that appears at
some stage in a child's development and delays or prevent the development of one or more
physiological functions such as language skills. Developmental diseases include psychological
and physical diseases. Non-limiting examples of developmental diseases are autism spectrum
disorder (ASD), Down syndrome, attention deficit disorder (ADD) and attention deficit
hyperactive disorder (ADHD).

                                                  16
         The term "patient" refers to a warm-blooded animal, more preferably a human,
who/which is awaiting the receipt of, or is receiving medical care or is/will be the object of a
medical procedure.
         The term "human" refers to a subject of both genders and at any stage of development
(i.e. neonate, infant, juvenile, adolescent, adult).
         The terms "treat", "treating" and "treatment, as used herein, are meant to include
alleviating, attenuating or abrogating a condition or disease and/or its attendant symptoms.
         The terms "prevent", "preventing" and "prevention", as used herein, refer to a method
of delaying or precluding the onset of a condition or disease and/or its attendant symptoms,
barring a patient from acquiring a condition or disease, or reducing a patient's risk of
acquiring a condition or disease.
         The term "therapeutically effective amount" (or more simply an "effective amount") as
used herein means the amount of active             agent or active ingredient (e.g. N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine)            that    is
sufficient to achieve the desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect in the patient to
which/whom it is administered.
         The term "administration", or a variant thereof (e.g.,"administering"), means providing
the active agent or active ingredient (e.g. N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine), alone or as part of a pharmaceutically acceptable
composition, to the patient in whom/which the condition, symptom, or disease is to be treated
or prevented.
         By "pharmaceutically acceptable" is meant that the ingredients of a pharmaceutical
composition are compatible with each other and not deleterious to the patient thereof.
         The term "pharmaceutical vehicle" as used herein means a carrier or inert medium used
as solvent or diluent in which the pharmaceutically           active agent is formulated and/or
administered. Non-limiting examples of pharmaceutical vehicles include creams, gels, lotions,
solutions, and liposomes.

                                              17
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       Figure 1 shows the DSC spectrum of the tartrate salt (1 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 2 shows the DSC spectrum of the fumarate salt (1 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 3 shows the DSC         spectrum of the oxalate    salt (2 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 4 shows the DSC spectrum of the oxalate salt (3 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 5 shows the DSC         spectrum of the oxalate    salt (4 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 6 shows the DSC spectrum of the sulphate salt (I eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure 7 shows the DSC spectrum of the sulphate salt (2 eq) of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine.
       Figure       8     shows      the     XRPD       diffractogram     of     N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,     4eq oxalate
salt.
       Figure       9     shows      the     XRPD       diffractogram     of     N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,        2.9     eq
sulphate salt of example 1.
Figure 10 shows the XRPD diffractogram of N-(3 -(4-(3 -(d iisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin- 1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 1.8eq sulphate salt of example 2 (higher intensity
graph) superimposed     with the   one of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-

                                                18
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 2.9 eq sulphate salt of example I (lower intensity
graph).
          Figure      11      shows     the     XRPD       diffractogram       of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,          leq sulphate
salt of example 3.
          Figure      12      shows      the    XRPD       diffractogram       of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,          leq sulphate
salt   of   example    3   (bottom   graph)   superimposed    with    the  one    of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine            (free   base)
(top graph).
          Figure      13-a      shows      photographs     of     crystals     of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine         1 eq sulphate
salt, as observable with an optical microscope, at zoom x325, under transmitted light.
          Figure      13-b      shows      photographs     of     crystals     of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine         I eq sulphate
salt, as observable with an optical microscope, at zoom x3 2 5, under cross polarized light.
          Figure      14      shows     the     XRPD       diffractogram       of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,          2eq sulphate
salt of example 4.
          Figure      15      shows      the    XRPD       diffractogram       of       N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,          2eq sulphate
salt   of   example    4   (bottom   graph)   superimposed    with    the  one    of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine            (free   base)
(top graph).
          Figure    16    shows    the    DVS    drying  curve     at    25'C    of     N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,         I eq sulphate
salt of example 3.
          Figure 17 shows the DVS isotherm sorption/desorption plots at 25'C of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,         1 eq sulphate
salt of example 3.

                                                   19
          Figure 18 shows the DVS           isotherm sorption/desorption plots at 25'C of the
dihydrated       form      of     N-(3-(4-(3 -(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, I eq sulphate salt of example 3.
          Figures     19-a    to    19-d     show     the     results    obtained  for  N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,              1.8      eq
sulphate salt in the in vitro APP metabolism assay. In all figures, the results are provided for
the control (white bar) and the sulphate salt of the invention at four concentrations (black
bars). Figure 19-a shows the AICD levels, Figure 19-b the CTFa levels, Figure 19-c the Ap
42 levels and Figure 19-d the sAPPa levels.
          Figure 20 shows the CTFa levels measured in the frontal cortex of mice treated with
various       doses       of      N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylainino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,      1.8 eq sulphate salt (in vivo APP metabolism assay; 24 h acute
treatment). The results are provided for the vehicle (white bar) and the sulphate salt of the
invention at five doses (dark grey bars).
          Figure 21 shows the CTFa levels measured in the frontal cortex of mice treated with
various       doses       of      N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 2 eq sulphate salt or of the oxalate salt of W02006/051489 (in
vivo APP metabolism assay; mice 24 h acute treatment). The results are provided for the
vehicle (white bar), the oxalate salt (light grey bars) and the sulphate salt of the invention
(dark grey bars) at 6 mg/kg.
          Figures     22-a    and    22-b     show     the     results   obtained  for  N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,              1.8      eq
sulphate salt in the in vivo APP metabolism assay (rats 1-month chronic study). In all figures,
the results are provided for the vehicle (white bar) and the sulphate salt of the invention at two
concentrations (dark grey bars). Figure 22-a shows the CTF levels in the frontal cortex and
Figure 22-b the CTFp levels in the hippocampus.
         Figures    23-a,   23-b   and   23-c    show     the    results  obtained  for N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,              1.8      eq
sulphate salt in the in vivo APP metabolism assay (mice 3-months chronic study). In all
figures, the results are provided for the vehicle (white bar) and the sulphate salt of the

                                               20
invention at three concentrations (dark grey bars). Figure 23-a shows the AT100 levels,
Figure 23-b the AT8 levels, and Figure 23-c the LPO levels.
CHEMISTRY EXAMPLES
         The following abbreviations are used throughout the present application: 'C: Celsius
degrees, DIPE: di-iso-propyl ether, DSC: differential scanning calorimetry, DVS: dynamic
water vapour sorption/desorption,       6: NMR chemical shifts expressed in ppm, eq:
equivalent(s),   Et:   ethyl, g:  gram(s), h: hour(s),     HPLC: high performance         liquid
chromatography, IPA: isopropanol, IR: infrared, L: liter(s), LCMS: HPLC coupled to a mass
spectrometer, M: mol/L, mM: mmol/L, tM: pmol/L, Me: methyl, mg: milligram(s), min:
minute(s), mL: milliliter(s), mol: mole(s), mmol: millimole(s), pmol : micromole(s), MS:
Mass Spectrometry, NMR: nuclear magnetic resonance, ppm: party per million, RH: relative
humidity, rm: reaction mixture, rpm: round(s) per minute, rt: retention time, RT: room
temperature (ca 15-25 'C), RV: reaction vessel, THF: tetrahydrofuran, XRPD: X ray powder
diffraction, W: Watt(s).
        All reported temperatures are expressed in degrees Celsius ('C); all reactions were
carried out at room temperature (RT) unless otherwise stated.
         Experimental set-up or purification procedures that were used in this invention, when
not described in specific details, are assumed to be known to those conversant in the art and
are described in such standard reference manuals as: i) Gordon, A. J.; Ford, R. A. "The
Chemist's Companion - A Handbook of Practical Data, Techniques, and References", Wiley:
New York, 1972; ii) Vogel's Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry, Pearson Prentice Hall:
London, 1989.
        HPLC analysis.
Method A:
         HPLC spectra were typically obtained on a Waters Alliance 2695 system HPLC. The
instrument includes an autosampler, a quaternary pump, and an ultraviolet multi-wavelength
detector. The chromatography column used was a Waters X-Terra RP18 5pm, 4,6x250 mim.
         Eluent typically used was a mixture of solution A (0.1% TFA in H2 0) and solution B
(0.1% TFA in MeOH).

                                                      21
          Gradient was applied at a flow rate of 1 mL per minute as follows: gradient held the
initial conditions of 5 % solution B for 0 min, increased linearly to 40 % solution B in 50 min,
held at 40 % during 5 min, returned to initial conditions in 1 min and maintained for 5 min.
Method B:
          In a variant, HPLC analyses were carried out according to the parameters disclosed in
Table I below.
                                  Table 1: HPLC parameters for method B
HPLC equipment            Injector/pump: Waters Alliance 2695
                          Detector: Waters Photo Diode Array 996
                           Software: Waters Millenium
Column                     SymmetryShield C 18
                           150 mm x 4,6 mmm - dp=5 pLm
Mobile phase              A: H20/TFA 0.05%
                          B: MeOH/TFA 0.05%
                                     Time                        A%                     B%
                                        0                         95                      5
                                        5                         95                      5
                                       20                         10                     90
                                       25                         10                     90
                                      25.1                        95                      5
                                       30                         95                      5
Flow rate                  1 mL/min
Column temperature        Room temperature
Detection                 UV: ?=276 nm
Test solution              Suitable dilution in H2 0/CH3CN 50/50 (v/v)
Injection volume          5 pL
Injector temperature      20 0C
Retention time            Free base -13min
         NMR analysis
1H   (300 MHz) spectra were recorded on a Bruker Advance DRX 300 MHz instrument.
Chemical shifts are expressed in parts per million, (ppm, 6 units). Coupling constants are
expressed in Hertz (Hz). Abbreviations for multiplicities observed in NMR spectra are as
follows: s (singlet), d (doublet), t (triplet), q (quadruplet), m (multiplet), br (broad).
         DSC spectra. TA Instrument, DSC QI.

                                                         22
          DSC spectra were recorded on a TA DSC QIO instrument within a temperature range
of -10 C to 300 C or 400'C and with 10 C increments.
          Optical microscopy.
          Observation by optical microscopy was performed on a LEICA DMIRB microscope
equipped with a digital camera and a motorized stage. A few powder grains are dispersed on a
glass plate with mineral oil. Photos were recorded with a picture analysis platform from
Microvision Instruments, both under transmitted light and polarized light.
         X-ray powder diffraction
         X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) analysis is performed on a Broker - AXS D8
Advance diffractometer, using a copper anti-cathode, a mono-ciystalline silicon sample
holder and a position sensitive detector. Instrument operating conditions for X-rays pattern
acquisition are described in Table 2.
                     Table 2: Instrument operating conditions for X-rays profile acquisition
Temperature                                                                                Ambient
Atmosphere                                                                                 Ambient
X-rays generator                      - voltage (kV)                                          40
                                      - intensity (mA)                                        40
X-rays source                         - target                                                Cu
                                      - emission radiation KXl (nm)                        0.15406
                                                             KX2 (nm)                      0.15444
                                                            Ratio K 2/ Kk                     0.5
                                      - Kp3 filter                                            Ni
Slit (nm)                             - anti-divergence                                       0.6
Goniometer                            - angular sector analyzed (' for 20)                   5-70
                                      - step size (0 for 20)                                0.0714
Rotation speed for sample holder (rpm)                                                        30
Detection                             - angular opening (0)                                    8
                                      - step time for measuring diffracted                     6
                                      intensity (s)
          The powder sample is dispersed on the silicon sample holder in a way to avoid
preferred orientation (not randomly oriented crystals) and to ensure planarity of the specimen
surface.

                                                   23
         Dynamic vapour sorption
         Dynamic vapour sorption (DVS) analyses with water were performed on a DVS
Intrisic incubator from SMS Ltd, equipped with DVS-Intrisic Control Software 1.0.
         A sample of about 5 to 10 mg, placed in an aluminium pan holder, was submitted to a
full-cycle analysis (sorption followed by desorption) under the conditions described in Table
3.
                             Table 3: operating conditions for DVS analysis
Temperature                                          25 0 C
Carrier gas and rate                                 Dried and filtered air at 100 mL.min'
Mode and criterion                                   dm/dt < 0.002% min-'
Humidity range                                        0 to 95% RH
RH step                                               5%
Minimum step time                                     10 min
Maximum step time                                     360 min
         The sample was pre-dried under a stream of dry filtered air until a stable mass was
obtained. Relative humidity was then increased by 5% increments. At each step, the sample
was allowed to increase until equilibrium is reached (dm/dt criterion), then relative humidity
was increased further. Relative humidity was ramped up to 95%. After equilibration at this
stage, desorption is started in a similar stepwise manner, with a sample weight allowed to
stabilize after each incremental humidity decrease step.
         Solvents and reagents were purchased and used as received from commercial vendors
unless otherwise specified.
         Example 1: synthesis of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)
1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 2.9 eq sulphate salt
         A diluted sulphuric acid solution in DIPE was prepared by adding 4 mL (0,0 75 1mol)of
concentrated sulphuric acid to 28 mL (0,197mol) of DIPE.
         To a suspension of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino.)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine (16,1 g, 0,03756 mol) in DIPE(280 mL), was added dropwise 32
mL of the above-described diluted sulphuric acid solution. A slight temperature increase

                                              24
around 10'C was observed. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT and became limpid over
an hour. The resulting white solution was filtered and recovered. The white powder obtained
was then dried under vacuum at 50'C during 48 hours.
Analytical data
        HPLC (method A): rt: 20,24 min;
        Elemental analysis:
                calculated: %C=48.06; %H=7.74; N=13.45; %S=10.26; %0=20.48
                experimental: %C=41.43; %H=6.95; %N=1 1.60%; %S=12.34; %0=26.53.
        Example 2: synthesis of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)
IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 1.8 eq sulphate salt
        Title compound was prepared according to a similar procedure as the one described at
example 1.
Analytical data
HPLC (method A): rt: 29,207 min;
NMR (D2 0): 6 (ppm): 7,2 (m, 4H, 2CH); 3,7 (b, 8H, 4CH 2); 3,4-3,1 (m, 8H, 4CH 2); 2,9 (m
4H, 2CH, ); 2,3-1,9 (m, 6H, 2CH+2CH2); 0,85(d, 12H, 4CH).
        Elemental analysis:
                calculated: %C=48.06; %H=7.74; N=13.45; %S=10.26; %0=20.48
                experimental: %C=49.55; %H=7.89; N=13.87; %S=8.95; %0=19.29.
        Example 3: synthesis of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)
IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 1 eq sulphate salt
        3 mL      of ethanol were     added    to 99.6   mg of synthesis     of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,           almost
complete dissolution was achieved upon heating at 70'C. An equimolar quantity of a 0.5 M
aqueous solution of sulphuric acid was added (465 pL) and full dissolution was observed. The
solution is dried in vacuo at 70'C to give a solid residue. The solid is re-suspended in
IPA/EtOH at 70'C to provide a suspension of fine particles; the solvent volume was then
partially reduced under vacuum. The suspension was allowed to cool to room temperature.

                                                 25
The supernatant was removed and the powder was dried under vacuum for 2 h at 70'C, to
yield title compound in 89% yield.
         HPLC        analyses     (method      B):      the     percentage       of      N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine           (free base) in
title compound, determined by external standardization, was found to be 83.4%. This result
was consistent with the theoretical calculated percent: 81.4%.
         Example 4: synthesis of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)
1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 2 eq sulphate salt
         3 mL     of ethanol    were    added   to   101.7   mg    of synthesis     of N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,                   almost
complete dissolution was achieved upon heating at 70'C. A two-molar quantity of a 0.5 M
aqueous solution of sulphuric acid was added (950 pL) and full dissolution was observed. The
solution is dried in vacuo at 70'C to give a translucent film wherein crystallization of
expected salt progressively occurred. The solid was then re-suspended in 3 mL of methanol to
give a clear suspension which is stirred at 60'C for 15 minutes. 10 mL of IPA were added to
finalize salt crystallization and the resulting suspension was stirred at 80'C for 30 minutes.
The suspension was then allowed to cool to room temperature and stored overnight at sub
ambiant temperature. The supernatant was removed from the flask and the powder dried in
vacuo for 2.5 hours at 70'C to provide title compound in 71% yield.
         HPLC        analyses     (method      B):      the     percentage       of      N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine           (free base) in
title compound, determined by external standardization, was found to be 65.8%. This result
was consistent with the theoretical calculated percent: 68.6%.
         No long term instability due to oxidation, in particular oxidation at the piperazine ring,
was observed with sulphate salts in solid state.
         Example 5: Physico-chemical analysis of different salts
         The hydrochloride, hydrobromide, acetate, tartrate, fumarate, malate, oxalate and
sulphate       salts      of     N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H
benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine were prepared according to procedures similar to those described
in the previous examples or standard salt formation methods well known in the art.The results
of these salt formations are reported in Table 4.

                                                        26
                                         Table 4: salt formation results
                         Salt                 Acid eq. added                 Physical form
                      Free base                          0                Amorphous powder
                       Chloride                          4               Precipitation of a very
                                                                          hygroscopic solid    1
                       Bromide                         1.1                  No solid formed
                       Acetate                           1               No solid formed, oily
                                                                                 residue
                       Acetate                           2               No solid formed, oily
                                                                                 residue
                      Fumarate                           1                  Not crystalline
                       Tartrate 3                        1                  Not crystallinez2
                        Malate                           1                       Powder
                       Oxalate                           2                        Gum
                       Oxalate                           3                        Gum
                       Oxalate                           4                Crystalline powder
                       Sulphate                          1                Crystalline powder
                                                                            (colorless solid)
                       Sulphate                          2                Crystalline powder
                                                                            (colorless solid)
                 a weighed out sample of chloride salt was left standing open to the air. Said
              sample rapidly gained weight and eventually became deliquescent within a few
              seconds or minutes, depending on the room RH.
              2 DSC spectrum did not reveal any endotherm and is thus characteristic
                                                                                         of solids
              lacking a crystalline phase
              3 salt formed in EtOH/water
        The chloride salt was straightforwardly found very hygroscopic while acetate salts
were not obtained in solid form. Although tartrate and fumarate salts were obtained as solids,
the DSC analysis showed that they are not crystalline (see Figures 1 and 2). Such deficiency
can result in batch to batch variations with respect to solid forms. Batch to batch
reproducibility is an essential criterion in the synthesis of drug compounds especially when
different solid forms can have different pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics properties.
Hence, tartrate and fumarate salts are not satisfactory.

                                                27
         The malate salt was obtained as a powder; however it bears an asymmetric carbon.
Chiral centers considerably complicate clinical development since each stereoisomer needs to
be equally characterized as the active stereoisomer.
With regards to oxalate salts, 4 eq of oxalate counter-ions are required to obtain suitable
crystalline powders. The DSC graphs of oxalate salts (2 eq, 3 eq and 4 eq) are shown
respectively in Figures 3, 4 and 5. As shown by the DSC spectra the tetraoxalate salt bear the
most well shaped and defined endotherm. The requirement of having 4 equivalents of oxalate
salt is a caveat since the weight percentage of active molecule drops to as low as 54%. The
amount of drug to be administered for a given dose of PAM is thus significantly increased as
well as the risk of nephrotoxicity associated to oxalates.
        Both sulphate salts precipitated as solids. They were found stable when left open to the
air. In contrast to the chloride salt, no hygroscopicity issue was observed. The DSC analysis
(see Figures 6 and 7) revealed well defined endotherms which are consistent with solids
comprising a crystalline phase.
        Example 6: XRPD analysis of oxalate and sulphate salts
         The   XRPD       diffractogram    of   N-(3 -(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, 4 eq oxalate salt is shown on Figure 8. In the
angular window analyzed, a few large diffraction rays of low intensity were detected. The
XPRD profile reveals the presence of a high diffusion background. Such a XPRD profile is
characteristic of a powder having a crystalline phase with little or poor crystallinity (large
rays) with the presence of an amorphous phase (high diffusion background).
         The X-Ray diffraction profile for the sulphate salt of example 1 (see Figure 9) shows
several well-defined and sharp diffraction peaks between 5 and 250 in 2-theta scale, indicating
that the solid form of said sulphate salt comprises a well good crystalline phase. The
diffractogram also presents a background halo (between 10 and 300) that is interpreted as
coming from an amorphous fraction present in the solid. Profiles comparison with the
sulphate salt of example 2 reveal many overlapping between the several diffraction peaks
detected (see Figure 10).
         The XPRD diffractogram of the sulphate salt of example 3 (see Figure 11) confirmed
the good crystallinity of this salt with numerous, fine and well defined diffraction peaks

                                                 28
between 4 and 300 20, and reported a different diffraction profile from synthesis of N-(3-(4
(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-l-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine         (free base).
The XPRD profile of this salt has been compared with the one of the free base, both profiles
superimposed in a same chromatograph (Figure 12) are consistent with different crystal forms
between the sulphate salt and the free base. These results are consistent with the observations
by optical microscopy. Indeed, the high birefringence and the well defined stick-like
morphology of particles when observed under transmitted light (Figure 13a) and cross
polarized light (Figure 13b) indicated a sulphate salt of good crystallinity.
         The XPRD diffractogram of the sulphate salt of example 4 (see Figure 14) confirmed
the good crystallinity of this salt with numerous diffraction peaks between 4 and 300 20, and
reported      a    different    diffraction    profile    from     synthesis    of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine          (free   base).
The XPRD profile of this salt has been compared with the one of the free base, both profiles
superimposed in a same chromatograph (Figure 15) are consistent with different crystal forms
between the sulphate salt and the free base.
        As a result, Examples 5 and 6 clearly show that sulphate salts are superior to any other
acid salt and to oxalate salts in particular. Sulphate salts do not bear severe hygroscopicity as
chloride salts. Unlike bromide salts, they crystallize to provide powder materials. Their
crystallinity is indeed far superior to those of tartrate and fumarate salts. Like sulphate salts,
the oxalate salt with a specific 4 eq stoichiometry provides solids that comprise a crystalline
and an amorphous phase. However, the XRPD profiles and optical microscopy under
transmitted and polarized lights revealed that the crystalline phase of sulphate salts is better
defined in terms of morphology and crystallinity than the one of the oxalate salt. Moreover,
sulphate salts remedy the shortcomings of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine (free base), i.e. they can be isolated in a solid form
having a crystallized phase with a good crystallinity and have no obvious stability issues.
Furthermore, they broaden the formulation possibilities of this PAM owing to their very high
water solubility. The 4 eq oxalate salt did not fully remedy the shortcomings of the free base
in terms of crystallinity and morphology and are anyway inferior to sulphate salts in these
aspects. The skilled person would even consider a 4 eq oxalate salt as worsening the overall
properties of the free base PAM since it contains high quantities of oxalate counter-ions
which can induce severe nephrotoxicity.

                                               29
        Example     7:   DVS    profile   of   N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1
yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine, I eq sulphate salt
        DVS analysis was carried out according to the method described above.
        The results are shown in Figures 16 and 17 which display the DVS drying curve as
well as the DVS isotherm plots (water vapour sorption/desorption traces) after preliminary
drying of the sulphate salt of example 3. In Figure 17, the top curve corresponds to the
desorption phase and bottom curve to the sorption phase.
        Upon drying at 25'C/0% RH, the sample lost 0.18% of its mass.
        Upon sorption, three relative humidity intervals corresponding to different water
sorption rates and behaviours were observed from the sample mass variation:
        - from 0 to 80% RH: continuous and slow water sorption rate; water uptake at
25cC/60% RH and 25'C/80% RH were respectively of 0.7% and 1.5% compared to the
sample mass obtained after initial drying at 0% RH;
        - from 80 to 90% RH: rapid and nearly constant water sorption rate; water uptake at
25'C/90% RH was 9.7% compared to the sample mass obtained after initial drying at 0% RH;
        - water sorption then further increased and water vapour uptake at 25'C/95% RH was
of 19.4% compared to the sample mass obtained after initial drying at 0% RH.
       Upon desorption, three relative humidity intervals corresponding to different water
sorption rates and behaviours were observed:
        - from 95 to 90% RH: rapid decrease of the residual water rate with 10% remaining at
25'C/75% RH compared to the sample mass obtained after initial drying at 0% RH;
        - from 75 to 10% RH: the sample retained the "adsorbed" water with a strong and
nearly constant hysteresis (up to 6.7% at 25'C/75% RH);
        - from 10 to 0% RH: the sample lost part of its water; the remaining amount of water
was 4.6% at 25 0 C/0% RH, compared to the sample mass obtained after initial dining at 0%
RH; at this stage the sample mass was stabilized and thus in equilibrium with the surrounding
environment.

                                                30
         Based on commonly used criteria (i.e. a compound is said hygroscopic if it presents
more than 2% by weight water uptake at 25'C/60% RH), the sulphate salt of example 3 was
not hygroscopic at 25'C/60% RH, with only an overall mass uptake at this stage.
         Given the rapid water uptake at 80% RH, as well as the strong hysteresis (6 to 6.7% of
water remaining from 80 to 10% RH upon desorption), the sulphate salt of example 3,
originally obtained as its non-solvated form, converted into a di-hydrated form at high RH.
The      theoretical   water    uptake    for    the  di-hydrated    form     of    N-(3-(4-(3
(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,       I eq sulphate
salt of example 3 is 6.8% and in line with experimentally determined 6.7%.
        At the end of the above-described first DVS cycle, the same sample was submitted to a
second DVS cycle with a second sorption phase and a second desorption phase. The results
are shown in Figure 18. Both second sorption and desorption phases were identical to the first
desorption phase curve obtained during the first DVS cycle. Indeed, as can be seen in Figure
18, desorption phase and sorption phase overlap each other. The di-hydrated form of N-(3-(4
(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-I -yl)propyl)- lH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine,        I     eq
sulphate salt of example 3, which was obtained beyond 80% RH at 25'C during the first
cycle, was thus stable and non hygroscopic.
BIOLOGY EXAMPLES
        In vitro APP metabolism assay
         This assay was performed using SH-5Y5Y cells (human neuroblastoma cell line
overexpressing wild type human APP) which were treated for 24 h with the sulphate salt of
example 2. This test was carried out at four different compound concentrations of 0.3, 1, 3
and 10 pM. Quantification of different metabolites was achieved by western-blot analysis.
CTFa, CTFP and AICD were analysed using anti-actin ((1-19) (SC-1616 Santa Cruz
Biotechnology; 1:1000 from 200 pg/ml stock) as an internal control and anti-C term APP
antibody (1:250000 in washing buffer). Protein concentrations were determined by the BCA
Protein Assay Kit (Thermo Scientific). Samples (20 pig total protein) were separated by 16%
SDS-PAGE       according   to the  molecular   weight of each protein,     and transferred    to
nitrocellulose membranes.

                                                 31
        The results are shown on Figures 19-a, 19-b, 19-c and 19-d. They show dose
dependent increased levels of AICD, CTFa and sAPPa and decreased level of AP          -4 2.
        Sulphate salt of example 2 thus induces a significant increase of APP metabolism
through non-amyloidogenic pathway concomitant with a reduction in the formation of
deleterious metabolites involved in amyloid plaques formation. These results are all the more
so remarkable since ApI      42 is one of the most deleterious APP metabolism by-products with
respect to amyloid plaques formation. Furthermore, peptide sAPPa does not induce amyloid
plaque formation and is rather recognized as having beneficial neuroprotective effects.
        In addition, it is remarked that no cytotoxicity was found for this sulphate salt, its CCo
on SH-5Y5Y cell line was found greater than 30 ptM. CCso is defined herein as the
concentration at which 50% of plated cells remain alive.
        In vivo APP metabolism assay
        In vivo experiments were carried out on 4-month old C57Bl6 female mice or 2-month
old Sprague Dawley rats.
        Acute treatment: 24 h p.o.
        C57B16 female mice were treated per os (gavage) with vehicle or compound (example
2) at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 3 and 6 mg/kg mg/kg (n= 6 per group) for 24h. The product was
administered with a disposable Rodent Feeding Tube ECIMED Ref# V0104030 (4 mm x 30
mm). The animals were sacrificed after 24h, the brain was immediately removed for
dissection. Levels of CTFu in the frontal cortex (FC) and/or the hippocampus (HIP) were
measured by western-blot analysis as previously described. Briefly, tissues were homogenized
with 200pL of lysis buffer (10 mL of Laemmli Pre-Lysis Buffer and 1 tablet of Protease
Inhibitor cocktail Complete Mini (Roche)) in a potter. After sonication (5 min), homogenates
were centrifuged at 1600 rpm 5 min 4'C. Supernatants were aliquoted and stored at -80'C
before western blot analysis.
        Dose dependent results are shown on Figure 20. Compound of example 2 enhances
APP metabolism through the non-amyloidogenic pathway in the frontal cortex as shown by
increasing concentrations of CTFa. The frontal cortex is generally the first region of the brain
to be affected by amyloid plaques formation in abnormal APP metabolism related diseases.

                                                32
        The   compound      of example     2  was   also  compared    to    the oxalate  salt  of
W02006/051489 in the same assay (6 mg/kg dose). The results shown in Figure 21 indicate
superior efficiency of the sulphate salt in comparison to the oxalate salt.
        Chronic treatment: 1-month
        Rats were provided for one month with 1 or 10 mg/kg/day of the compound of
example 2 dissolved in their drinking water. The remarkable high solubility of this sulphate
salt enabled easy formulation and administration thereof to the animals. The animals were
sacrificed after one month and levels of CTFa and CTFP in the frontal cortex (FC) and/or the
hippocampus (HIP) were measured by western-blot analysis as previously described. Dose
dependent results are shown on Figures 22-a and 22-b. Sulphate salt of example 2 enhances
APP metabolism through the non-amyloidogenic pathway in the frontal cortex as shown by
increasing concentrations of CTFa (Figure 22-a). Sulphate salt of example 2 attenuates APP
metabolism through the amyloidogenic pathway in the hippocampus as shown by decreasing
concentrations of CTFP (Figure 22-b). The frontal cortex is generally the first region of the
brain to be affected by amyloid plaques formation in abnormal APP metabolism related
diseases while the hippocampus, which is highly involved in memory and recollection
processes, is latterly but severely affected. The sulphate salt of example 2 thus has very
positive effect on APP metabolism in both the frontal cortex and the hippocampus and could
is therefore of interest in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular for both
early and advanced stages of abnormal APP metabolism related diseases.
        Chronic treatment: 3-months
        Neuropathological disorders are also characterized by abnormal phosphorylation of
Tau protein (ATIO). Hyperphosphorylation of the tau protein (on specific sites) can result in
the intracellular accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), involved in the pathogenesis
of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. One axis of the study was thus to study the
effect of the sulphate salt of example 2 on this abnormal phosphorylation. In parallel, such
effect was also monitored with regards to the non-pathological phosphorylation of Tau protein
(AT8) which should remain unaffected. Another axis of this study was thus the impact of the
sulphate salt of example 2 on oxidative stress (OS). Therefore, levels of lipidic peroxidation, a
well known marker for the evaluation of oxidative stress, were determined. Indeed, oxidative
stress (OS), by the generation of toxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative damage
(oxidation of vital cellular components as lipids, proteins and DNA), is believed to be

                                                 33
involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. The neuronal cell OS response is
particularly studied for its contribution to the neurodegeneration processes. OS results from a
misbalance between ROS generation and antioxidant defences, leading to an accumulation of
oxidative damages, and finally the cell death. Oxidative damage has also been associated with
pathological neuronal loss in Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD).
        4-month old C57B16 female mice were provided with 0.5, 1 or 3 mg/kg of compound
of example 2 dissolved in their drinking water. First of all, all mice were weighed and
distributed in each cage in order to have approximately the same mean of weight  SD per
cage. Each product concentration was prepared in sterile bottles and kept at RT protected
from light. Drinking bottles were filled each week and weighed. Volume consumed was
calculated by weighing each bottle after each week and the remaining volume was discarded.
        AT100 phosphorylation levels measurements were performed on brain tissues by
western blot analysis (previously described) using specific anti AT100 antibody (Anti-human
PHF-Tau monoclonal antibody, MN1020, Thermo Scientific/Pierce).
        AT8 phosphorylation levels measurements were performed on brain tissues by western
blot analysis (previously described) using specific anti AT8 antibody (Anti-human PHF-Tau
monoclonal antibody, MN 1060, ThermoScientific/Pierce).
        LPO levels measurements: the level of lipid peroxidation in hippocampi is determined
as cumene hydroperoxide (CHP) equivalents and expressed as CHP equivalents per wet
weight of tissue and as percentage of control group data following the modified FOX assay.
        The results are shown in Figures 23-a, 12 3-b and 23-c. The sulphate salt of the
invention decreases the pathological Tau protein phosphorylation (Figure 23-a) while not
affecting the normal Tau protein phosphorylation (Figure 23-b). Furthermore, this sulphate
salt induces a significant decrease of LPO levels and is thus able to partly alleviate oxidative
stress processes (Figure 23-c).

                                              34
         In view of the above experimental results, sulphate salts of the invention are useful in
orienting APP metabolism towards non-amyloidogenic pathways in the frontal cortex and the
hippocampus.     They further alter the pathological     Tau protein phosphorylation       while
alleviating oxidative stress processes.

                                     35
Forms:
1.     A    sulphate    salt   of   N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-l
       yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine and pharmaceutically acceptable
       solvates thereof
2.     The sulphate salt of form 1, having formula II
                   N
                          H
                    H
                  H
                                Formula II
        wherein x is 05 to 4, and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof.
3.     The sulphate salt of form 2 and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates
       thereof, characterized in that it x is 15 to 2.5.
4.     The sulphate salt of form 2 and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates
       thereof, characterized in that it x is 0.5 to 1.5.
5.     The sulphate salt of form 2 and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates
       thereof, characterized in that it x is 2.5 to 3.5.

                                  36
6.  The sulphate salt of form 2, having formula III
                       NSO4.(H2O
                 H
                             Formula III
   wherein
   x is as defined in form 2, and
   y is 0.5 to 5
7.  A pharmaceutical composition comprising a sulphate salt according to any
    one of forms 1 to 6, or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, and at
    least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient and/or
    adjuvant.
8.  The sulphate      salt according to any one of forms 1 to 6, or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, for use as a medicament.
9.  The sulphate      salt according to any one of forms 1 to 6, or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, for use in treating and/or
    preventing     a   disease   selected  from    neurodegenerative    diseases,
    amyloidopathies, tauopathies and developmental diseases.

                                   37
10. The sulphate salt according to form 9, wherein the disease is selected from
    Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), amyotrophic
    lateral sclerosis    (ALS)   with frontotemporal      dementia,  inclusion body
    myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal dementia
    (IBMPFD),       frontotemporal       lobar    degeneration,     synucleopathies,
    Huntington's     disease,     Parkinson's    disease,   amyloid     angiopathies,
    frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 and
    Down syndrome.
11. The sulphate      salt according to any one of forms             1 to   6, or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, for use in delaying in a patient
    the   onset  of    a   disease   selected  from    neurodegenerative    diseases,
    amyloidopathies, tauopathies and developmental diseases.
12. The sulphate salt according to form 11, wherein the disease is selected from
    Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), amyotrophic
    lateral sclerosis    (ALS)   with frontotemporal      dementia,  inclusion body
    myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal dementia
    (IBMPFD),       frontotemporal       lobar    degeneration,     synucleopathies,
    Huntington's     disease,     Parkinson's    disease,   amyloid     angiopathies,
    frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 and
    Down syndrome.

                                     38
Claims:
1.      A method for treating and/or preventing          a disease selected      from
        neurodegenerative diseases, amyloidopathies and tauopathies comprising
        administering to a patient in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective
        amount of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin
        1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amiine       or    a     pharmaceutically
        acceptable solvate thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
        sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylanino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)
        IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine      or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate
        thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent,
        excipient and/or adjuvant.
2.      The method of claim         1, wherein the sulphate     salt of N-(3-(4-(3
        (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
        amine has formula II
                   N
                        \ H              .(H2 S0 4 )x
                   H
                                 Formula II
         wherein x is 0.5 to 4, and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein x is 1.5 to 2.5.

                                  39
4.  The method of claim 2, wherein the sulphate            salt of N-(3-(4-(3
    (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
    amine has formula III
                                     .(H2 SO4 )x .(HI12%
                 H
                             Formula III
   wherein
   x is as defined in claim 2, and
   y is 0.5 to 5.
5.  The method according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein x is 2.
6.  The method according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein the disease is
    selected from Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB),
    amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with frontotemporal dementia, inclusion
    body myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal
    dementia (IBMPFD), frontotemporal lobar degeneration, synucleopathies,
    Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyloid angiopathies and
    frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.

                                40
7. A method for treating and/or preventing a disease, wherein a dysfunction of
   the   APP   metabolism     and/or     a     dysfimction   of the   Tau  proteins
   phosphorylation is observed comprising administering to a patient in need
   thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
   (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
   amine or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof, or a pharmaceutical
   composition      comprising       a        sulphate     salt    of   N-(3-(4-(3
   (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
   amine or a pharmaceutically acceptable solvate thereof and at least one
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient and/or adjuvant.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sulphate                  salt of N-(3-(4-(3
   (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
   amine has formula II
              N
                   \ H              .(H 2S0 4 )x
              H
                            Formula II
    wherein x is 0.5 to 4, and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof
9. The method of claim 8, wherein x is 1.5 to 2.5.

                                   41
10.  The method of claim 8, wherein the sulphate           salt of N-(3-(4-(3
     (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
     amine has formula III
                 N
                         H            .(H2 SO4 ). .(HI2
                  H
                              Formula III
    wherein
    x is as defined in claim 8, and
    y is 0.5 to 5.
11.  The method according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein x is 2.
12.  Use of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-l
     yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[dliiidazol-2-amine and pharmaceutically acceptable
     solvates thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for use in treating
     and/or preventing a disease selected from neurodegenerative diseases,
     amyloidopathies and tauopathies.

                                42
13. The use     of claim    12,  wherein       the sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
    (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
    amine has formula II
           A\         H            .( 2 S0 4 )
                H
                            Formula 11
     wherein x is 05 to 4, and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof
14. The use of claim 13, wherein x is 15 to 2.5.
15. The use     of claim    13,  wherein       the sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
    (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-y)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
    amine has formula III
              x   N               V
                         4H        {fSOg).H2o,
                  H
                            Formula II

                                   43
    wherein
    x is as defined in claim 13, and
    y is 0.5 to 5.
16.  The use according to any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein x is 2.
17.  The use according to any one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the disease is
     selected from Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB),
     amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with frontotemporal dementia, inclusion
     body myopathy with Paget's disease of bone and/or frontotemporal
     dementia (IBMPFD), frontotemporal lobar degeneration, synucleopathies,
     Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyloid angiopathies and
     frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
18.  Use of a sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3-(diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-l
     yl)propyl)-IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2-amine and pharmaceutically acceptable
     solvates thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for use in treating
     and/or preventing a disease, wherein a dysfunction of the APP metabolism
     and/or a dysfunction of the Tau proteins phosphorylation is observed.
19.  The    use    of claim   18,   wherein       the sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
     (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)- IH-benzo[d]imidazol-2
     amine has formula II
                                      -(f 2S0 4 )
                    H
                              Formula II
      wherein x is 0.5 to 4, and pharmaceutically acceptable solvates thereof

                                         44
   20.     The use of claim 19, wherein x is 1.5 to 2.5.
  21.      The    use    of claim   19,   wherein  the   sulphate salt of N-(3-(4-(3
           (diisobutylamino)propyl)piperazin-1-yl)propyl)-1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2
           amine has formula III
                        N
                               H
                         H
                        H
                                    Formula III
          wherein
          x is as defined in claim 19, and
          y is 0.5 to 5.
  22.      The use according to any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein x is 2.
                                 ALZPROTECT
             UNIVERSITE DE LILLE 2 DRIOT ET SANTE
INSERM (Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale)
       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                          SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/11

