ABSTRACT (FIG. 1)
Disclosed herein are compositions and methods of modulating the expression of gene or the
production of a protein by transfecting target cells with nucleic acids. The compositions
disclosed herein demonstrate a high transfection efficacy and are capable of ameliorating
diseases associated with protein or enzyme deficiencies.

                                                    -1
 5           DELIVERY OF MRNA FOR THE AUGMENTATION OF PROTEINS AND
                             ENZYMES IN HUMAN GENETIC DISEASES
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which
   is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014250713, which is a divisional of
10 Australian Patent Application No. 2010326132. Australian Patent Application No. 2010326132
   claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/265,653, filed December 1,
   2009. All of the above applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Novel approaches and therapies are still needed for the treatment of protein and enzyme
15 deficiencies, particularly strategies and therapies which overcome the challenges and
   limitations associated with the administration of nucleic acids and the transfection of target
   cells. Additional approaches which modulate or supplement the expression of a deficient
   protein or enzyme and thus ameliorate the underlying deficiency would be useful in the
   development of appropriate therapies for associated disorders.
20          For example, the urea cycle metabolic disorders represent protein and enzyme
   deficiencies for which there are no currently available cures. The urea cycle is a series of
   biochemical reactions which occurs in many animals that produce urea ((NH 2 ) 2 CO) from
   ammonia (NH 3) and, in mammals, takes place only in the liver. Specifically, the urea cycle
   consists of a series of five biochemical reactions and serves two primary functions: the
25 elimination of nitrogen as urea and the synthesis of arginine. Defects in the urea cycle result in
   the accumulation of ammonia and its precursor amino acids (glutamine, glutamic acid, aspartic
   acid, and glycine). The

                                                  -2
      resulting high levels of ammonia are neurotoxic, and the triad of hyperammonemia,
      encephalopathy, and respiratory alkalosis characterizes the urea cycle disorders.
               Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency represents one such urea cycle
      genetic disorder. Typically, a subject with OTC deficiency has a reduced level of the
  5   enzyme OTC. In the classic severe form of OTC deficiency, within the first days of
      life patients present with lethargy, convulsions, coma and severe hyperammonemia
     that quickly lead to a deteriorating and fatal outcome absent appropriate medical
     intervention. If left untreated, complications from OTC deficiency may include
     developmental delay, mental retardation and/or death.
 10            Treatment of OTC deficient patients primarily involves the regulation of
     serum ammonia and hemodialysis remains the only effective means to rapidly lower
     serum ammonia levels. Generally, the treatment goal of urea cycle metabolic
     disorders is to provide sufficient protein and arginine for growth, development, and
     energy while preventing the development of hyperammonemia and
 15  hyperglutaminemia. Therapeutic approaches that are currently available for the
     therapeutic management of urea cycle metabolic disorders such as OTC deficiency
     rely heavily upon dietary management. There are no currently available long-term
     treatments or cures for urea cycle metabolic disorders. Novel therapies that increase
    the level or production of an affected protein or enzyme in target cells, such as
20  hepatocytes, or that modulate the expression of nucleic acids encoding the affected
    protein or enzyme could provide a treatment or even a cure for metabolic disorders,
    including metabolic disorders such as OTC deficiency.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25            Disclosed are methods of intracellular delivery of nucleic acids that are
    capable of correcting existing genetic defects and/or providing beneficial functions to
    one or more target cells. Following successful delivery to target tissues and cells, the
    compositions and nucleic acids of the present invention transfect that target cell and
    the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) can be translated into the gene product of interest
30  (e.g., a functional protein or enzyme) or can otherwise modulate or regulate the
    presence or expression of the gene product of interest.

                                                  -3
             The compositions and methods provided herein are useful in the management
     and treatment of a large number of diseases, in particular diseases which result from
     protein and/or enzyme deficiencies. Individuals suffering from such diseases may
     have underlying genetic defects that lead to the compromised expression of a protein
  5  or enzyme, including, for example, the non-synthesis of the protein, the reduced
     synthesis of the protein, or synthesis of a protein lacking or having diminished
     biological activity, In particular, the methods and compositions provided herein are
     useful for the treatment of the urea cycle metabolic disorders that occur as a result of
     one or more defects in the biosynthesis of enzymes involved in the urea cycle. The
10   methods and compositions provided herein are also useful in various in vitro and in
    vivo applications in which the delivery of a nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA) to a target cell
     and transfection of that target cell are desired.
             In one embodiment, the compositions provided herein may comprise a nucleic
    acid, a transfer vehicle and an agent to facilitate contact with, and subsequent
15  transfection of a target cell. The nucleic acid can encode a clinically useful gene
    product or protein. For example, the nucleic acid may encode a functional urea cycle
    enzyme. In preferred embodiments, the nucleic acid is RNA, or more preferably
    mRNA encoding a functional protein or enzyme.
             In some embodiments, compositions and methods for increasing expression of
20  a functional protein or enzyme in a target cell are provided. For example, the
    compositions and methods provided herein may be used to increase the expression of
    a urea cycle enzyme (e.g., OTC, CPSI, ASS1, ASL or ARG1). In some
    embodiments, the composition comprises an mRNA and a transfer vehicle. In some
    embodiments, the mRNA encodes a urea cycle enzyme. In some embodiments the
25  mRNA can comprise one or more modifications that confer stability to the mRNA
    (e.g., compared to a wild-type or native version of the mRNA) and may also comprise
    one or more modifications relative to the wild-type which correct a defect implicated
    in the associated aberrant expression of the protein. For example, the nucleic acids of
    the present invention may comprise modifications to one or both the 5' and 3'
30  untranslated regions. Such modifications may include, but are not limited to, the
    inclusion of a partial sequence of a cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate-early I (IEI)

                                                   -4
       gene, a poly A tail, a CapI structure or a sequence encoding human growth hormone
       (hGH)).
                Methods of treating a subject, wherein the subject has a protein or enzyme
       deficiency are also provided. The methods can comprise administering a composition
   5   provided herein. For example, methods of treating or preventing conditions in which
       production of a particular protein and/or utilization of a particular protein is
       inadequate or compromised are provided. In one embodiment, the methods provided
      herein can be used to treat a subject having a deficiency in one or more urea cycle
      enzymes. The method can comprise contacting and transfecting target cells or tissues
 10   (such as hepatocytes that are deficient in one or more urea cycle enzymes) with a
      composition provided herein, wherein the nucleic acid encodes the deficient urea
      cycle enzyme. In this manner, the expression of the deficient enzyme in the target
      cell is increased, which in turn is expected to ameliorate the effects of the underlying
      enzyme deficiency. The protein or enzyme expressed by the target cell from the
 15   translated mRNA may be retained within the cytosol of the target cell or alternatively
      may be secreted extracellularly. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid is an mRNA.
      In some embodiments, the mRNA comprises a modification that confers stability to
     the mRNA code (e.g., when compared to the wild-type or native version of the
     mRNA). For example, the mRNA encoding a functional enzyme may comprise one
20   or more modifications to one or both the 5' and 3' untranslated regions.
               In a preferred embodiment, the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) provided herein
     are formulated in a lipid or liposomal transfer vehicle to facilitate delivery to the
     target cells and/or to stabilize the nucleic acids contained therein. Contemplated
     transfer vehicles may comprise one or more cationic lipids, non-cationic lipids, and/or
25   PEG-modified lipids. For example, the transfer vehicle may comprise a mixture of
     the lipids CHOL, DOPE, DLinDMA and DMG-PEG-2000. In another embodiment,
     the transfer vehicle may comprise the lipids ICE, DOPE and DMG-PEG-2000. In
     still another embodiment the transfer vehicle may comprise one or more lipids
     selected from the group consisting of ICE, DSPC, CHOL, DODAP, DOTAP and C8
30   PEG-2000 ceramide. In a preferred embodiment, the transfer vehicle is a liposome or
     a lipid nanoparticle which is capable of preferentially distributing to the target cells
     and tissues in vivo.

                                                  -5
            Methods of expressing a functional protein or enzyme (e.g., a urea cycle
   enzyme) in a target cell are also provided. In some embodiments, the target cell is
   deficient in a urea cycle enzyme. The methods comprise contacting the target cell
   with a composition comprising an mRNA and a transfer vehicle. Following
 5 expression of the protein or enzyme encoded by the mRNA, the expressed protein or
   enzyme may be retained within the cytosol of the target cell or alternatively may be
   secreted extracellularly. In some embodiments, the mRNA encodes a urea cycle
   enzyme. In some embodiments the mRNA can comprise one or more modifications
   that confer stability to the mRNA and may also comprise one or more modifications
10 relative to the wild-type that correct a defect implicated in the associated aberrant
   expression of the protein. In some embodiments, the compositions and methods of
   the present invention rely on the target cells to express the functional protein or
   enzyme encoded by the exogenously administered nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA).
   Because the protein or enzyme encoded by the exogenous mRNA are translated by
15 the target cell, the proteins and enzymes expressed may be characterized as being less
   immunogenic relative to their recombinantly prepared counterparts.
            Also provided are compositions and methods useful for facilitating the
   transfection and delivery of one or more nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) to target cells.
   For example, the compositions and methods of the present invention contemplate the
20 use of targeting ligands capable of enhancing the affinity of the composition to one or
   more target cells. In one embodiment, the targeting ligand is apolipoprotein-B or
   apolipoprotein-E and corresponding target cells express low-density lipoprotein
   receptors, thereby facilitating recognition of the targeting ligand. The methods and
   compositions of the present invention may be used to preferentially target a vast
25 number of target cells. For example, contemplated target cells include, but are not
   limited to, hepatocytes, epithelial cells, hematopoietic cells, epithelial cells,
   endothelial cells, lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells, neural cells,
   cardiac cells, adipocytes, vascular smooth muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, skeletal
   muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells, synovial lining cells, ovarian cells, testicular
30 cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes, leukocytes, granulocytes and tumor
   cells.

                                                    -6
             The above discussed and many other features and attendant advantages of the present
    invention will become better understood by reference to the following detailed description
    when taken in conjunction with the accompanying examples. The various embodiments
    described herein are complimentary and can be combined or used together in a manner
  5 understood by the skilled person in view of the teachings contained herein.
             Definitions of specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
             According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of delivery
    of messenger RNA (mRNA) for in vivo production of a protein for treating a metabolic
    disorder resulting from an enzyme deficiency, said method comprising:
 [0          administering to a subject a composition comprising an mRNA encoding the protein,
    said mRNA encapsulated within a liposome such that the administering of the composition
    results in the prolonged stable expression of the protein encoded by the mRNA in the liver.
             According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
    treating a metabolic disorder comprising:
 [5          administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to a metabolic disorder
    resulting from an enzyme deficiency of an enzyme a composition comprising an mRNA
    encoding an enzyme, said mRNA encapsulated within a liposome such that the
    administering of the composition results in prolonged stable expression of the enzyme
    encoded by the mRNA in the liver sufficient to treat the enzyme deficiency.
 !0          According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a composition when
    used for in vivo production of protein for treating a metabolic disorder resulting from an
    enzyme deficiency, said composition comprising an mRNA encoding a protein, said mRNA
    encapsulated within a liposome, wherein the composition once administered in vivo results in
    prolonged stable expression of the protein encoded by the mRNA in the liver.
25           According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a cationic lipid:
               0
                  N
                   NH
             According to an fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
    preparing the cationic lipid of the fourth embodiment, the process comprising step (b) of:

                                                  -6a
            providing compound 3:
               0
                  N
                   N
                      Ph
                Phh- Ph                           , and
            treating compound 3 with a strong acid to afford the cationic lipid of the fourth
    embodiment.
  5         Other embodiments of the invention are described herein are defined in the following
    paragraphs:
    1.      A composition for modulating the expression of a protein in a target cell, wherein said
    composition comprises at least one RNA molecule and a transfer vehicle.
    2.      The composition of paragraph 1, wherein the RNA molecule is selected from the group
 [0 consisting of mRNA, miRNA, snRNA, and snoRNA.
    3.      The composition of paragraph 2, wherein the RNA molecule comprises at least one
    modification which confers stability to the RNA molecule.
    4.      The composition of paragraph 3, wherein the RNA molecule comprises a modification
    of the 5' untranslated region of said RNA molecule.
15  5.      The composition of paragraph 4, wherein said modification comprises a partial sequence
    of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IEl) gene.
    6.      The composition of paragraph 5, wherein said partial sequence of the CMV immediate
    early 1 (IE l) gene comprises SEQ ID NO: 2.
    7.      The composition of paragraph 4, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
20  poly A tail.
    8.      The composition of paragraph 4, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    Cap1 structure.
    9.      The composition of paragraph 3, wherein the RNA molecule comprises a modification
    of the 3 'untranslated of said RNA molecule.

                                                    -6b
    10.     The composition of paragraph 9, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    sequence encoding human growth hormone (hGH).
    11.     The composition of paragraph 10, wherein said sequence encoding human growth
    hormone (hGH) comprises SEQ ID NO: 3.
  5 12.     The composition of paragraph 9, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    poly A tail.
    13.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein the transfer vehicle is a liposome.
    14.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein the transfer vehicle is a lipid nanoparticle.
    15.     The composition of paragraph 1, comprising an agent for facilitating transfer of the
 [0 RNA molecule to an intracellular compartment of the target cell.
    16.     The composition of paragraph 15, wherein the agent is selected from the group
    consisting of a protein, a peptide, an aptamer, and an oligonucleotide.
    17.     The composition of paragraph 1, comprising a ligand capable of enhancing affinity of
    the composition for the target cell.
 [5 18.     The composition of paragraph 17, wherein the ligand is selected from the group
    consisting of a peptide, a protein, an aptamer, a vitamin, and an oligonucleotide.
    19.     The composition of paragraph 17, wherein said ligand is selected from the group
    consisting of apolipoprotein-B and apolipoprotein-E.
    20.     The composition of paragraph 1, comprising a stabilizing reagent.
20  21.     The composition of paragraph 20, wherein the stabilizing reagent is selected from the
    group consisting of a protein, a peptide, and an aptamer.
    22.     The composition of paragraph 21, wherein the stabilizing reagent binds to the RNA
    molecule.
    23.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
25  cationic lipids.
    24.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    non-cationic lipids.
    25.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    PEG-modified lipids.

                                                      -6c
    26.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises CHOL, DOPE,
    DLinDMA and DMG-PEG-2000.
    27.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises ICE, DOPE
    and DMG-PEG-2000.
  5 28.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein the transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    lipids selected from the group consisting of ICE, DSPC, CHOL, DODAP, DOTAP and C8
    PEG-2000 ceramide.
    29.     The composition of paragraph 14, wherein the transfer vehicle comprises DSPC, CHOL,
    DODAP and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide.
 [0 30.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said target cell is selected from the group
    consisting of hepatocytes, epithelial cells, hematopoietic cells, epithelial cells, endothelial cells,
    lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells, neural cells, cardiac cells, adipocytes,
    vascular smooth muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, skeletal muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells,
    synovial lining cells, ovarian cells, testicular cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes,
 [5 leukocytes, granulocytes and tumor cells.
    31.     The composition of paragraph 1, wherein said RNA molecule is mRNA and wherein
    said mRNA is greater than 1 kDa.
    32.     A composition for increasing expression of a urea cycle enzyme a target cell, the
    composition comprising an mRNA and a transfer vehicle, wherein the mRNA encodes a urea
  0 cycle enzyme and wherein the mRNA comprises a modification, wherein the modification
    confers stability to the mRNA.
    33.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a
    5' untranslated of said mRNA.
    34.     The composition of paragraph 33, wherein said modification comprises a partial
25  sequence of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IE 1) gene.
    35.     The composition of paragraph 34, wherein said partial sequence of the CMV
    immediate-early 1 (IEl) gene comprises SEQ ID NO: 2.
    36.     The composition of paragraph 33, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of
    a poly A tail.

                                                   -6d
    37.     The composition of paragraph 33, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of
    a Cap1 structure.
    38.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a
    3' untranslated region of said mRNA.
  5 39.     The composition of paragraph 38, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of
    a sequence encoding human growth hormone (hGH).
    40.     The composition of paragraph 39, wherein said sequence encoding human growth
    hormone (hGH) comprises SEQ ID NO: 3.
    41.     The composition of paragraph 38, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of
 [0 a poly A tail.
    42.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein the urea cycle enzyme is selected from the
    group consisting of ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1
    (CPS1), argimnosuccinate synthetase (ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL), and arginase 1
    (ARG1).
 [5 43.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein following expression of said urea cycle
    enzyme by said target cell, said urea cycle enzyme is secreted from said target cell.
    44.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    cationic lipids.
    45.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
20  non-cationic lipids.
    46.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises or more
    PEG-modified lipids.
    47.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises CHOL,
    DOPE, DLinDMA and DMG-PEG-2000.
25  48.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises ICE, DOPE
    and DMG-PEG-2000.
    49.     The composition of paragraph 32, wherein the transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    lipids selected from the group consisting of ICE, DSPC, CHOL, DODAP, DOTAP and C8
    PEG-2000 ceramide.

                                                     -6e
    50.      The composition of paragraph 49, wherein the transfer vehicle comprises DSPC, CHOL,
    DODAP and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide.
    51.      The composition of paragraph 32, wherein the transfer vehicle is a liposome.
    52.      The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said transfer vehicle is a lipid nanoparticle.
  5 53.      The composition of paragraph 32, further comprising an agent for facilitating transfer of
    the mRNA to an intracellular compartment of the target cell.
    54.      The composition of paragraph 53, wherein the agent is selected from the group
    consisting of a protein, a peptide, an aptamer, and an oligonucleotide.
    55.      The composition of paragraph 32, further comprising a ligand capable of enhancing
 [0 affinity of the composition for the target cell.
    56.      The composition of paragraph 55, wherein the ligand is selected from the group
    consisting of a peptide, a protein, an aptamer, a vitamin, and an oligonucleotide.
    57.      The composition of paragraph 55, wherein said ligand is selected from the group
    consisting of apolipoprotein-B and apolipoprotein-E.
 [5 58.      The composition of paragraph 32, further comprising a stabilizing reagent.
    59.      The composition of paragraph 58, wherein the stabilizing reagent is selected from the
    group consisting of a protein, a peptide, and an aptamer.
    60.      The composition of paragraph 58, wherein the stabilizing reagent binds to the mRNA.
    61.      The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said target cell is a hepatocyte.
20  62.      The composition of paragraph 32, wherein said mRNA is greater than 1 kDa.
    63.      A method of treating a subject, wherein the subject has a protein deficiency, comprising,
    administering a composition comprising an mRNA and a transfer vehicle, wherein the mRNA
    encodes a functional protein, and wherein the mRNA comprises a modification, wherein the
    modification confers stability to the administered mRNA.
25  64.      The method paragraph 63, wherein following expression of said mRNA by a target cell
    a functional protein is produced.
    65.      The method of paragraph 64, wherein said functional protein is secreted from said target
    cell.

                                                  -6f
    66.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the mRNA encodes a functional urea cycle
    enzyme.
    67.      The method of paragraph 66, wherein the urea cycle enzyme is selected from the group
    consisting of OTC, CPS 1, ASS 1, ASL, and ARG 1 .
  5 68.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a 5'
    untranslated region of said mRNA.
    69.      The method of paragraph 68, wherein said modification comprises a partial sequence of
    a CMV immediate-early 1 (IE l) gene.
    70.      The method of paragraph 69, wherein said partial sequence of a CMV immediate-early
 [0 1 (IE l) gene comprises SEQ ID NO: 2.
    71.      The method of paragraph 68, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    poly A tail.
    72.      The method of paragraph 68, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    Cap1 structure.
 [5 73.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a 3'
    untranslated region of said mRNA.
    74.      The method of paragraph 73, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    sequence encoding human growth hormone (hGH).
    75.      The method of paragraph 74, wherein said sequence encoding human growth hormone
20  (hGH) comprises SEQ ID NO: 3.
    76.      The method of paragraph 73, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    poly A tail.
    77.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    cationic lipids.
25  78.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more non
    cationic lipids.
    79.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more PEG
    modified lipids.
    80.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises CHOL, DOPE,
30  DLinDMA and DMG-PEG-2000.

                                                    -6g
    81.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises ICE, DOPE and
    DMG-PEG-2000.
    82.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the transfer vehicle is a liposome.
    83.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said transfer vehicle is a lipid nanoparticle.
  5 84.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the composition comprises an agent for
    facilitating transfer of the mRNA to an intracellular compartment of a target cell of the subject.
    85.      The method of paragraph 84, wherein the agent is selected from the group consisting of
    a protein, a peptide, an aptamer, and an oligonucleotide.
    86.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the composition comprises a ligand capable of
 [0 enhancing affinity of the composition for a target cell of the subject.
    87.      The method of paragraph 86, wherein the ligand is selected from the group consisting of
    a peptide, a protein, an aptamer, a vitamin, and an oligonucleotide.
    88.      The method of paragraph 87, wherein said ligand is selected from the group consisting
    of apolipoprotein-B and apolipoprotein-E.
 [5 89.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein the composition comprises a stabilizing reagent.
    90.      The method of paragraph 89, wherein the stabilizing reagent is selected from the group
    consisting of a protein, a peptide, and an aptamer.
    91.      The method of paragraph 89, wherein the stabilizing reagent binds to the mRNA.
    92.      The method of paragraph 63, wherein said mRNA is greater than 1 kDa.
20  93.      A method of expressing a functional protein in a target cell wherein the target cell is
    deficient in said functional protein, comprising contacting the target cell with a composition
    comprising an mRNA and a transfer vehicle, wherein the mRNA encodes said functional
    protein and wherein the mRNA comprises a modification, wherein the modification confers
    stability to the mRNA.
25  94.      The method paragraph 93, wherein following expression of said mRNA by a target cell
    a functional protein is produced.
    95.      The method of paragraph 94, wherein said functional protein is secreted from said target
    cell.

                                                -6h
    96.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein said deficient functional protein is a urea cycle
    enzyme.
    97.     The method of paragraph 96, wherein the urea cycle enzyme is selected from the group
    consisting of OTC, CPS1, ASS1, ASL, and ARGI.
  5 98.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a 5'
    untranslated region of said mRNA.
    99.     The method of paragraph 98, wherein said modification comprises a partial sequence of
    a CMV immediate-early 1 (IE l) gene.
    100.    The method of paragraph 99, wherein said partial sequence of the CMV immediate
 [0 early 1 (IE l) gene comprises SEQ ID NO: 2.
    101.    The method of paragraph 98, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    poly A tail.
    102.    The method of paragraph 98, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    Capl structure.
 [5 103.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein the modification comprises an alteration of a 3'
    untranslated region of said mRNA.
    104.    The method of paragraph 103, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    sequence encoding human growth hormone (hGH).
    105.    The method of paragraph 104, wherein said sequence encoding human growth hormone
20  (hGH) comprises SEQ ID NO: 3.
    106.    The method of paragraph 103, wherein said modification comprises the inclusion of a
    poly A tail.
    107.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more
    cationic lipids.
25  108.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more non
    cationic lipids.
    109.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises one or more PEG
    modified lipids.
    110.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises CHOL, DOPE,
30  DLinDMA and DMG-PEG-2000.

                                                    -6i
    111.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle comprises ICE, DOPE and
    DMG-PEG-2000.
    112.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the transfer vehicle is a liposome.
    113.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein said transfer vehicle is a lipid nanoparticle.
  5 114.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the composition comprises an agent for
    facilitating transfer of the mRNA to an intracellular compartment of the target cell.
    115.     The method of paragraph 114, wherein the agent is selected from the group consisting
    of a protein, a peptide, an aptamer, and an oligonucleotide.
    116.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the composition comprises a ligand capable of
 [0 enhancing affinity of the composition for the target cell.
    117.     The method of paragraph 116, wherein said ligand is selected from the group consisting
    of apolipoprotein-B and apolipoprotein-E.
    118.     The method of paragraph 117, wherein said target cell expresses one or more low
    density lipoprotein receptors.
 [5 119.     The method of paragraph 116, wherein the ligand is selected from the group consisting
    of a peptide, a protein, an aptamer, a vitamin, and an oligonucleotide.
    120.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the composition comprises a stabilizing reagent.
    121.     The method of paragraph 120, wherein the stabilizing reagent is selected from the group
    consisting of a protein, a peptide, and an aptamer.
20  122.     The method of paragraph 120, wherein the stabilizing reagent binds to the mRNA.
    123.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein the transfer vehicle comprises one or more lipids
    selected from the group consisting of ICE, DSPC, CHOL, DODAP, DOTAP and C8-PEG-2000
    ceramide.
    124.     The method of paragraph 93 wherein the transfer vehicle comprises DSPC, CHOL,
25  DODAP and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide.
    125.     The method of paragraph 93, wherein said target cell is selected from the group
    consisting of hepatocytes, epithelial cells, hematopoietic cells, epithelial cells, endothelial cells,
    lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells, neural cells, cardiac cells, adipocytes,
    vascular smooth muscle cells, cardiomyocytes, skeletal muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells,

                                                      -6j
    synovial lining cells, ovarian cells, testicular cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes,
    leukocytes, granulocytes and tumor cells.
    126.    The method of paragraph 93, wherein said mRNA is greater than 1 kDa.
  5
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 illustrates the synthesis of the imidazole cholesterol ester lipid ICE.
            FIG. 2 illustrates the presence of firefly luciferase activity produced from the delivery of
    exogenous mRNA in the livers and spleens of treated and untreated CD-I mice.
 [0         FIG. 3 illustrates codon-optimized firefly luciferase mRNA in situ hybridization in
    control and treated (B 1 and B2) mouse livers observed on x-ray film under low (2X)
    magnification. (A) represents cresyl violet staining of control (Ct) and treated liver sections B 1
    and B2 mice; (B) represents X-ray film autoradiography detection by antisense probes of CO
    FF luciferase mRNA in BI and B2 mouse livers; and (C) represents control (sense)
 [5 hybridization. The abbreviations "cv", "as" and "s" correspond to cresyl violet, antisense, and
    sense, respectively.
            FIG. 4 illustrates codon-optimized firefly luciferase mRNA labeling in treated (BI) and
    control livers. (A) represents emulsion autoradiography detection of CO-FF luciferase mRNA
    in a BI liver section seen as bright labeling under darkfield illumination; (B) represents the
 !0 same region as (A) seen under brightfield illumination using cresyl violet as a counter-stain; (C)
    represents B 1 liver section treated with the CO-FF luciferase control (sense) riboprobe
    establishing the level of non-specific labeling; (D) represents the same region as (C) seen under
    brightfield illumination; (E) represents untreated control liver section treated with CO-FF
    luciferase antisense probe, no signal was detected; (F) represents the same region as (E) seen
25  under brightfield illumination; (G) represents control liver section treated with the CO-FF
    luciferase control (sense) riboprobe establishing the level of non-specific labeling; and (H)
    represents the same region as (G) seen under brightfield illumination. The abbreviations "BD",
    "HA", "H", "PV", "as" and "s" correspond to bile duct, hepatic
30                                           [Text continues on page 7]

                                               -7
   artery, hepatocyte, portal vein, antisense and sense respectively. Magnification:
   100X.
            FIG. 5 illustrates immunohistochemical staining of mouse livers for the
   detection of firefly luciferase protein. (A) represents negative luciferase staining for
 5 control liver of mouse treated with Ix PBS (20X); (B) represents positive luciferase
   protein detection via immunohistochemical fluorescence-based methods,
   demonstrating that firefly luciferase protein is observed in the hepatocytes (20X), as
   well as a small number of sinusoidal endothelial cells that were positive for luciferase
   protein as well; (C) represents a positive firefly luciferase protein staining shown at
10 higher magnification (40X). Luciferase protein is observed throughout the cytoplasm
   of the hepatocytes. The abbreviations (S) and (H) correspond to sinusoidal cells and
   hepatocytes, respectively.
           FIG. 6 shows the nucleotide sequence of CO-FF luciferasc mRNA (SEQ ID
   NO: 1).
15         FIG. 7 shows the nucleotide sequences of a 5' CMV sequence (SEQ ID NO:
   2) and a 3' hGH sequence (SEQ ID NO: 3) which may be used to flank an mRNA
   sequence of interest.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
20          Disclosed herein are compositions that facilitate the delivery of nucleic acids
   to, and the subsequent transfection of, target cells. In particular, the compositions
   provided herein are useful for the treatment of diseases which result from the deficient
   production of proteins and/or enzymes. For example, suitable diseases that may be
   treated are those in which a genetic mutation in a particular gene causes affected cells
25 to not express, have reduced expression of, or to express a non-functional product of
   that gene. Contacting such target cells with the compositions of the present invention
   such that the target cells are transfected with a nucleic acid encoding a functional
   version of the gene product allows the production of a functional protein or enzyme
   product this is useful in the treatment of such deficiency.
30          Provided herein are compositions for modulating the expression of a protein in
   a target cell. In some embodiments, the composition comprises an RNA molecule
   and a transfer vehicle. Compositions for increasing expression of a urea cycle

                                                    -8
       enzyme in a target cell are also provided. The compositions comprise, for example,
       an mRNA and a transfer vehicle. The mRNA encodes, for example, a functional urea
       cycle enzyme. In some embodiments, the mRNA of the composition can be modified
       to impart enhanced stability (e.g., relative to the wild-type version of the mRNA
   5   and/or the version of the mRNA found endogenously in the target cell). For example,
      the mRNA of the composition can include a modification compared to a wild-type
      version of the mRNA, wherein the modification confers stability to the mRNA of the
      composition.
               Methods of expressing a urea cycle enzyme in a target cell are provided. In
 10   some embodiments, the target cell is deficient in a urea cycle enzyme. The methods
      provided herein comprise contacting the target cell with a composition comprising an
      mRNA and a transfer vehicle, wherein the mRNA encodes one or more urea cycle
      enzymes. In some embodiments, the mRNA of the composition is more stable than
      the wild-type version of the mRNA and/or more stable than the version of the mRNA
 15   found endogenously in the target cell.
              Methods of treating a subject with a urea cycle deficiency are provided. The
      methods comprise administering a composition comprising an mRNA and a transfer
      vehicle, wherein the mRNA encodes a urea cycle enzyme. In some embodiments, the
      mRNA of the composition is more stable than the wild-type version of the mRNA
20    and/or more stable than the version of the mRNA found endogenously in the target.
              Provided herein are methods of and compositions for modulating the level of
      mRNA and/or the expression of proteins. In some embodiments, the compositions
     provided herein are capable of modulating the expression of a particular protein by
     decreasing expression of mRNA encoding that protein in a target cell or tissue. For
25   example, in one embodiment, the composition comprises a miRNA or a nucleic acid
     encoding miRNA where the miRNA is capable of reducing or eliminating expression
     of a particular mRNA in a target cell. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid of the
     composition is more stable (e.g., limited nuclease susceptibility) compared to a wild
     type and/or endogenous version of the nucleic acid.
30            As used herein, the term "nucleic acid" refers to genetic material (e.g.,
     oligonucleotides or polynucleotides comprising DNA or RNA). In some
     embodiments, the nucleic acid of the compositions is RNA. Suitable RNA includes

                                                -9
    mRNA, siRNA, miRNA, snRNA and snoRNA. Contemplated nucleic acids also
    include large intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA), which generally do not encode
   proteins, but rather function, for example, in immune signaling, stem cell biology and
   the development of disease. (See, e.g., Guttman, et al., 458: 223-227 (2009); and Ng,
 5 et al., Nature Genetics 42: 1035-1036 (2010), the contents of which are incorporated
   herein by reference). In a preferred embodiment, the nucleic acids of the invention
   include RNA or stabilized RNA encoding a protein or enzyme. The present invention
   contemplates the use of such nucleic acids (and in particular RNA or stabilized RNA)
   as a therapeutic capable of facilitating the expression of a functional enzyme or
10 protein, and preferably the expression of a functional enzyme of protein in which a
   subject is deficient (e.g., a urea cycle enzyme). The term "functional", as used herein
   to qualify a protein or enzyme, means that the protein or enzyme has biological
   activity, or alternatively is able to perform the same, or a similar function as the native
   or normally-functioning protein or enzyme. The subject nucleic acid compositions of
15 the present invention are useful for the treatment of a various metabolic or genetic
   disorders, and in particular those genetic or metabolic disorders which involve the
   non-expression, misexpression or deficiency of a protein or enzyme.
            In the context of the present invention the term "expression" is used in its
   broadest sense to refer to either the transcription of a specific gene or nucleic acid into
20 at least one mRNA transcript, or the translation of at least one mRNA or nucleic acid
   into a protein or enzyme. For example, contemplated by the present invention are
   compositions which comprise one or more mRNA nucleic acids which encode
   functional proteins or enzymes, and in the context of such mRNA nucleic acids, the
   term expression refers to the translation of such mRNA to produce the protein or
25 enzyme encoded thereby.
            The nucleic acids provided herein can be introduced into cells or tissues of
   interest. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid is capable of being expressed (e.g.,
   the transcription of mRNA from a gene), translated (e.g., the translation of the
   encoded protein or enzyme from a synthetic or exogenous mRNA transcript) or
30 otherwise capable of conferring a beneficial property to the target cells or tissues (e.g.,
   reducing the expression of a target nucleic acid or gene). The nucleic acid may
   encode, for example, a hormone, enzyme, receptor, polypeptide, peptide or other

                                                 -10
      protein of interest. A nucleic acid may also encode a small interfering RNA (siRNA)
      or antisense RNA for the purpose of decreasing or eliminating expression of an
      endogenous nucleic acid or gene. In one embodiment of the present invention, the
      nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA encoding a deficient protein or enzyme) may optionally
  5   have chemical or biological modifications which, for example, improve the stability
      and/or half-life of such nucleic acid or which improve or otherwise facilitate
     translation.
              The nucleic acids of the present invention may be natural or recombinant in
     nature and may exert their therapeutic activity using either sense or antisense
 10  mechanisms of action.
              Also contemplated by the present invention is the co-delivery of one or more
     unique nucleic acids to target cells, for example, by combining two unique nucleic
     acids into a single transfer vehicle. In one embodiment of the present invention, a
     therapeutic first nucleic acid, such as mRNA encoding galactose- I-phosphate
 15  uridyltransferase (GALT), and a therapeutic second nucleic acid, such as mRNA
     encoding galatokinase (GALK), may be formulated in a single transfer vehicle and
     administered (e.g., for the treatment of galactosemia). The present invention also
     contemplates co-delivery and/or co-administration of a therapeutic first nucleic acid
     and a second nucleic acid to facilitate and/or enhance the function or delivery of the
20   therapeutic first nucleic acid. For example, such a second nucleic acid (e.g.,
     exogenous or synthetic mRNA) may encode a membrane transporter protein that upon
    expression (e.g., translation of the exogenous or synthetic mRNA) facilitates the
    delivery or enhances the biological activity of the first nucleic acid. Alternatively, the
    therapeutic first nucleic acid may be administered with a second nucleic acid that
25  functions as a "chaperone" for example, to direct the folding of either the therapeutic
    first nucleic acid or endogenous nucleic acids.
             Also contemplated is the delivery of one or more therapeutic nucleic acids to
    treat a single disorder or deficiency, wherein each such therapeutic nucleic acid
    functions by a different mechanism of action. For example, the compositions of the
30  present invention may comprise a therapeutic first nucleic acid which, for example, is
    administered to correct an endogenous protein or enzyme deficiency, and which is
    accompanied by a second nucleic acid, which is administered to deactivate or "knock-

                                               -11
    down" a malfunctioning endogenous nucleic acid and its protein or enzyme product.
    Such nucleic acids may encode, for example mRNA and siRNA.
            While in vitro transcribed nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) may be transfected into
   target cells, such nucleic acids are readily and efficiently degraded by the cell in vivo,
 5 thus rendering such nucleic acids ineffective. Moreover, some nucleic acids are
   unstable in bodily fluids (particularly human serum) and can be degraded even before
   reaching a target cell. In addition, within a cell, a natural mRNA can decay with a
   half-life of between 30 minutes and several days.
            The nucleic acids provided herein, and in particular the mRNA nucleic acids
10 provided herein, preferably retain at least some ability to be translated, thereby
   producing a functional protein or enzyme within a target cell. Accordingly, the
   present invention relates to the administration of a stabilized nucleic acid (e.g.,
   mRNA which has been stabilized against in vivo nuclease digestion or degradation) to
   modulate the expression of a gene or the translation of a functional enzyme or protein
15 within a target cell. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the activity
   of the nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA encoding a functional protein or enzyme) is
   prolonged over an extended period of time. For example, the activity of the nucleic
   acids may be prolonged such that the compositions of the present invention are
   administered to a subject on a semi-weekly or bi-weekly basis, or more preferably on
20 a monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly or an annual basis. The extended or prolonged
   activity of the compositions of the present invention, and in particular of the mRNA
   comprised therein, is directly related to the quantity of functional protein or enzyme
   translated from such mRNA. Similarly, the activity of the compositions of the present
   invention may be further extended or prolonged by modifications made to improve or
25 enhance translation of the mRNA nucleic acids. For example, the Kozac consensus
   sequence plays a role in the initiation of protein translation, and the inclusion of such
   a Kozac consensus sequence in the mRNA nucleic acids of the present invention may
   further extend or prolong the activity of the mRNA nucleic acids. Furthermore, the
   quantity of functional protein or enzyme translated by the target cell is a fumetion of
30 the quantity of nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA) delivered to the target cells and the stability
   of such nucleic acid. To the extent that the stability of the nucleic acids of the present
   invention may be improved or enhanced, the half-life, the activity of the translated

                                                  -12
     protein or enzyme and the dosing frequency of the composition may be further
     extended.
              Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the nucleic acids provided herein
     comprise at least one modification which confers increased or enhanced stability to
  5  the nucleic acid, including, for example, improved resistance to nuclease digestion in
     vivo. As used herein, the terms "modification" and "modified" as such terms relate to
     the nucleic acids provided herein, include at least one alteration which preferably
     enhances stability and renders the nucleic acid more stable (e.g., resistant to nuclease
     digestion) than the wild-type or naturally occurring version of the nucleic acid. As
 10  used herein, the terms "stable" and "stability" as such terms relate to the nucleic acids
     of the present invention, and particularly with respect to the mRNA, refer to increased
     or enhanced resistance to degradation by, for example nucleases (i.e., endonucleases
     or exonucleases) which are normally capable of degrading such RNA. Increased
     stability can include, for example, less sensitivity to hydrolysis or other destruction by
 15 endogenous enzymes (e.g., endonucleases or exonucleases) or conditions within the
    target cell or tissue, thereby increasing or enhancing the residence of such nucleic
    acids in the target cell, tissue, subject and/or cytoplasm. The stabilized nucleic acid
    molecules provided herein demonstrate longer half-lives relative to their naturally
    occurring, unmodified counterparts (e.g. the wild-type version of the nucleic acid).
20  Also contemplated by the terms "modification" and "modified" as such terms related
    to the nucleic acids of the present invention are alterations which improve or enhance
    translation of mRNA nucleic acids, including for example, the inclusion of sequences
    which function in the initiation of protein translation (e.g., the Kozac consensus
    sequence). (Kozak, M., Nucleic Acids Res 15 (20): 8125-48 (1987)).
25           In some embodiments, the nucleic acids of the present invention have
    undergone a chemical or biological modification to render them more stable.
    Exemplary modifications to a nucleic acid include the depletion of a base (e.g., by
    deletion or by the substitution of one nucleotide for another) or modification of a
    base, for example, the chemical modification of a base. The phrase "chemical
30  modifications" as used herein, includes modifications which introduce chemistries
    which differ from those seen in naturally occurring nucleic acids, for example,
    covalent modifications such as the introduction of modified nucleotides, (e.g.,

                                                 -13
   nucleotide analogs, or the inclusion of pendant groups which are not naturally found
   in such nucleic acid molecules).
            In addition, suitable modifications include alterations in one or more
   nucleotides of a codon such that the codon encodes the same amino acid but is more
 5 stable than the codon found in the wild-type version of the nucleic acid. For example,
   an inverse relationship between the stability of RNA and a higher number cytidines
   (C's) and/or uridines (U's) residues has been demonstrated, and RNA devoid of C and
   U residues have been found to be stable to most RNases (Heidenreich, et al. J Biol
   Chem 269, 2131-8 (1994)).         In some embodiments, the number of C and/or U
10 residues in an mRNA sequence is reduced. In a another embodiment, the number of
   C and/or U residues is reduced by substitution of one codon encoding a particular
   amino acid for another codon encoding the same or a related amino acid.
   Contemplated modifications to the muRNA nucleic acids of the present invention also
   include the incorporatation of pseudouridines. The incorporation of pseudouridines
15 into the mRNA nucleic acids of the present invention may enhance stability and
   translational capacity, as well as diminishing immunogenicity in vivo. (See, e.g.,
   Karik6, K., et al., Molecular Therapy 16 (11): 1833-1840 (2008)). Substitutions and
   modifications to the nucleic acids of the present invention may be performed by
   methods readily known to one or ordinary skill in the art.
20          The constraints on reducing the number of C and U residues in a sequence will
   likely be greater within the coding region of an mRNA, compared to an untranslated
   region, (i.e., it will likely not be possible to eliminate all of the C and U residues
   present in the message while still retaining the ability of the message to encode the
   desired amino acid sequence). The degeneracy of the genetic code, however presents
25 an opportunity to allow the number of C and/or U residues that are present in the
   sequence to be reduced, while maintaining the same coding capacity (i.e., depending
   on which amino acid is encoded by a codon, several different possibilities for
   modification of RNA sequences may be possible). For example, the codons for Gly
   can be altered to GGA or GGG instead of GGU or GGC.
30          The term modification also includes, for example, the incorporation of non
   nucleotide linkages or modified nucleotides into the nucleic acid sequences of the
   present invention (e.g., modifications to one or both the 3' and 5' ends of an mRNA

                                                     -14
        molecule encoding a functional protein or enzyme). Such modifications include the
        addition of bases to a nucleic acid sequence (e.g., the inclusion of a poly A tail or a
        longer poly A tail), the alteration of the 3' UTR or the 5' UTR, complexing the nucleic
        acid with an agent (e.g., a protein or a complementary nucleic acid molecule), and
   5    inclusion of elements which change the structure of a nucleic acid molecule (e.g.,
        which form secondary structures).
                The poly A tail is thought to stabilize natural messengers and synthetic sense
        RNA. Therefore, in one embodiment a long poly A tail can be added to an mRNA
        molecule thus rendering the RNA more stable. Poly A tails can be added using a
 10     variety of art-recognized techniques. For example, long poly A tails can be added to
       synthetic or in vitro transcribed RNA using poly A polymerase (Yokoe, et al. Nature
       Biotechnology. 1996; 14: 1252-1256). A transcription vector can also encode long
       poly A tails. In addition, poly A tails can be added by transcription directly from PCR
       products. Poly A may also be ligated to the 3' end of a sense RNA with RNA ligase
 15    (see, e.g., Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., ed. by Sambrook,
       Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press: 1991 edition)). In one
       embodiment, the length of the poly A tail is at least about 90, 200, 300, 400 at least
       500 nucleotides. In one embodiment, the length of the poly A tail is adjusted to
       control the stability of a modified sense mRNA molecule of the invention and, thus,
20    the transcription of protein. For example, since the length of the poly A tail can
      influence the half-life of a sense mRNA molecule, the length of the poly A tail can be
      adjusted to modify the level of resistance of the mRNA to nucleases and thereby
      control the time course of protein expression in a cell. In one embodiment, the
      stabilized nucleic acid molecules are sufficiently resistant to in vivo degradation (e.g.,
25    by nucleases), such that they may be delivered to the target cell without a transfer
      vehicle.
               In one embodiment, a nucleic acid encoding a protein can be modified by the
      incorporation 3' and/or 5' untranslated (UTR) sequences which are not naturally found
      in the wild-type nucleic acid. In one embodiment, 3 and/or 5' flanking sequence
30   which naturally flanks an mRNA and encodes a second, unrelated protein can be
     incorporated into the nucleotide sequence of an mRNA molecule encoding a
     therapeutic or functional protein in order to modify it. For example, 3' or 5' sequences

                                                -15
   from mRNA molecules which are stable (e.g., globin, actin, GAPDH, tubulin, histone,
   or citric acid cycle enzymes) can be incorporated into the 3' and/or 5' region of a sense
   mRNA nucleic acid molecule to increase the stability of the sense mRNA molecule.
            Also contemplated by the present invention are modifications to the nucleic
 5 acid sequences made to one or both of the 3' and 5' ends of the nucleic acid. For
   example, the present invention contemplates modifications to the 5' end of the nucleic
   acids (e.g., mRNA) to include a partial sequence of a CMV immediate-early I (IE1)
   gene, or a fragment thereof (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 2) to improve the nuclease resistance
   and/or improve the half-life of the nucleic acid. In addition to increasing the stability
10 of the mRNA nucleic acid sequence, it has been surprisingly discovered the inclusion
   of a partial sequence of a CMV immediate-early 1 (IE1) gene enhances the translation
   of the mRNA and the expression of the functional protein or enzyme. Also
   contemplated is the inclusion of a sequence encoding human growth hormone (hGII),
   or a fragment thereof (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 3) to one or both of the 3' and 5' ends of the
15 nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA) to further stabilize the nucleic acid. Generally, preferred
   modifications improve the stability and/or pharmacokinetic properties (e.g., half-life)
   of the nucleic acid relative to their unmodified counterparts, and include, for example
   modifications made to improve such nucleic acid's resistance to in vivo nuclease
   digestion.
20          In some embodiments, the composition can comprise a stabilizing reagent.
   The compositions can include one or more formulation reagents that bind directly or
   indirectly to, and stabilize the nucleic acid, thereby enhancing residence time in the
   cytoplasm of a target cell. Such reagents preferably lead to an improved half-life of a
   nucleic acid in the target cells. For example, the stability of an mRNA and efficiency
25 of translation may be increased by the incorporation of "stabilizing reagents" that
   form complexes with the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) that naturally occur within a cell
   (see e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,124). Incorporation of a stabilizing reagent can be
   accomplished for example, by combining the poly A and a protein with the mRNA to
   be stabilized in vitro before loading or encapsulating the mRNA within a transfer
30 vehicle. Exemplary stabilizing reagents include one or more proteins, peptides,
   aptamers, translational accessory protein, mRNA binding proteins, and/or translation
   initiation factors.

                                                   -16
                Stabilization of the compositions may also be improved by the use of
       opsonization-inhibiting moieties, which are typically large hydrophilic polymers that
       are chemically or physically bound to the transfer vehicle (e.g., by the intercalation of
       a lipid-soluble anchor into the membrane itself, or by binding directly to active groups
   5   of membrane lipids). These opsonization-inhibiting hydrophilic polymers form a
       protective surface layer which significantly decreases the uptake of the liposomes by
       the macrophage-monocyte system and reticulo-endothelial system (e.g., as described
       in U.S. Pat. No. 4,920,016, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by
       reference). Transfer vehicles modified with opsonization-inhibition moieties thus
 10    remain in the circulation much longer than their unmodified counterparts.
                When RNA is hybridized to a complementary nucleic acid molecule (e.g.,
       DNA or RNA) it may be protected from nucleases. (Krieg, et al. Melton. Methods in
      Enzymology. 1987; 155, 397-415). The stability of hybridized mRNA is likely due to
      the inherent single strand specificity of most RNases. In some embodiments, the
 15   stabilizing reagent selected to complex a nucleic acid is a eukaryotic protein, (e.g., a
      mammalian protein). In yet another embodiment, the nucleic acid molecule (e.g.,
      mRNA) for use in sense therapy can be modified by hybridization to a second nucleic
      acid molecule. If an entire mRNA molecule were hybridized to a complementary
      nucleic acid molecule translation initiation may be reduced. In some embodiments
20    the 5' untranslated region and the AUG start region of the mRNA molecule may
      optionally be left unhybridized. Following translation initiation, the unwinding
      activity of the ribosome complex can function even on high affinity duplexes so that
     translation can proceed. (Liebhaber. J. Mol. Biol. 1992; 226: 2-13; Monia, et al. J Biol
      Chen. 1993; 268: 14514-22.)
25             It will be understood that any of the above described methods for enhancing
     the stability of nucleic acids may be used either alone or in combination with one or
     more of any of the other above-described methods and/or compositions.
              In one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention facilitate the
     delivery of nucleic acids to target cells. In some embodiments, facilitating delivery to
30   target cells includes increasing the amount of nucleic acid that comes in contact with
     the target cells. In some embodiments, facilitating delivery to target cells includes
     reducing the amount of nucleic acid that comes into contact with non-target cells. In

                                                 -17
   some embodiments, facilitating delivery to target cells includes allowing the
   transfection of at least some target cells with the nucleic acid. In some embodiments,
   the level of expression of the product encoded by the delivered nucleic acid is
   increased in target cells.
 5          The nucleic acids of the present invention may be optionally combined with a
   reporter gene (e.g., upstream or downstream of the coding region of the nucleic acid)
   which, for example, facilitates the determination of nucleic acid delivery to the target
   cells or tissues. Suitable reporter genes may include, for example, Green Fluorescent
   Protein mRNA (GFP mRNA), Renilla Luciferase mRNA (Luciferase mRNA), Firefly
10 Luciferase mRNA, or any combinations thereof. For example, GFP mRNA may be
   fused with a nucleic acid encoding OTC mRNA to facilitate confirmation of mRNA
   localization in the target cells, tissues or organs.
            As used herein, the terms "transfect" or "transfection" mean the intracellular
   introduction of a nucleic acid into a cell, or preferably into a target cell. The
15 introduced nucleic acid may be stably or transiently maintained in the target cell. The
   term "transfection efficiency" refers to the relative amount of nucleic acid up-taken by
   the target cell which is subject to transfection. In practice, transfection efficiency is
   estimated by the amount of a reporter nucleic acid product expressed by the target
   cells following transfection. Preferred are compositions with high transfection
20 efficacies and in particular those compositions that minimize adverse effects which
   are mediated by transfection of non-target cells and tissues. The compositions of the
   present invention that demonstrate high transfection efficacies improve the likelihood
   that appropriate dosages of the nucleic acid will be delivered to the site of pathology,
   while minimizing potential systemic adverse effects.
25          As provided herein, the compositions can include a transfer vehicle. As used
   herein, the term "transfer vehicle" includes any of the standard pharmaceutical
   carriers, diluents, excipients and the like which are generally intended for use in
   connection with the administration of biologically active agents, including nucleic
   acids. The compositions and in particular the transfer vehicles described herein are
30 capable of delivering nucleic acids of varying sizes to their target cells or tissues. In
   one embodiment of the present invention, the transfer vehicles of the present
   invention are capable of delivering large nucleic acid sequences (e.g., nucleic acids of

                                                  -18
      at least lkDa, 1.5kDa, 2 kDa, 2.5kDa, 5kDa, I0kDa, 12kDa, l5kDa, 20kDa, 25kDa,
      30kDa, or more). The nucleic acids can be formulated with one or more acceptable
      reagents, which provide a vehicle for delivering such nucleic acids to target cells.
      Appropriate reagents are generally selected with regards to a number of factors, which
  5   include, among other things, the biological or chemical properties of the nucleic acids
      (e.g., charge), the intended route of administration, the anticipated biological
      environment to which such nucleic acids will be exposed and the specific properties
     of the intended target cells. In some embodiments, transfer vehicles, such as
     liposomes, encapsulate the nucleic acids without compromising biological activity. In
 10  some embodiments, the transfer vehicle demonstrates preferential and/or substantial
     binding to a target cell relative to non-target cells. In a preferred embodiment, the
     transfer vehicle delivers its contents to the target cell such that the nucleic acids are
     delivered to the appropriate subcellular compartment, such as the cytoplasm.
              In some embodiments, the transfer vehicle is a liposomal vesicle, or other
 15  means to facilitate the transfer of a nucleic acid to target cells and tissues. Suitable
     transfer vehicles include, but are not limited to, liposomes, nanoliposomes, ceramide
     containing nanoliposomes, proteoliposomes, nanoparticulates, calcium phosphor
     silicate nanoparticulates, calcium phosphate nanoparticulates, silicon dioxide
     nanoparticulates, nanocrystalline particulates, semiconductor nanoparticulates,
20   poly(D-arginine), nanodendrimers, starch-based delivery systems, micelles,
    emulsions, niosomes, plasmids, viruses, calcium phosphate nucleotides, aptamers,
    peptides and other vectorial tags. Also contemplated is the use of bionanocapsules
    and other viral capsid proteins assemblies as a suitable transfer vehicle. (Hum. Gene
    Ther. 2008 Sep;19(9):887-95). In a preferred embodiment of the present invention,
25  the transfer vehicle is formulated as a lipid nanoparticle. As used herein, the phrase
    "lipid nanoparticle" refers to a transfer vehicle comprising one or more lipids (e.g.,
    cationic and/or non-cationic lipids). Preferably, the lipid nanoparticles are formulated
    to deliver one or more nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) to one or more target cells or
    tissues. The use of lipids, either alone or as a component of the transfer vehicle, and
30  in particular lipid nanoparticles, is preferred. Examples of suitable lipids include, for
    example, the phosphatidyl compounds (e.g., phosphatidylglycerol,
    phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids,

                                               -19
   cerebrosides, and gangliosides). Also contemplated is the use of polymers as transfer
   vehicles, whether alone or in combination with other transfer vehicles. Suitable
   polymers may include, for example, polyacrylates, polyalkycyanoacrylates,
   polylactide, polylactide-polyglycolide copolymers, polycaprolactones, dextran,
 5 albumin, gelatin, alginate, collagen, chitosan, cyclodextrins and polyethylenimine. In
   one embodiment, the transfer vehicle is selected based upon its ability to facilitate the
   transfection of a nucleic acid to a target cell.
           In one embodiment of the present invention, the transfer vehicle may be
   selected and/or prepared to optimize delivery of the nucleic acid to the target cell,
10 tissue or organ. For example, if the target cell is a hepatocyte the properties of the
   transfer vehicle (e.g., size, charge and/or pH) may be optimized to effectively deliver
   such transfer vehicle to the target cell or organ, reduce immune clearance and/or
   promote retention in that target organ. Alternatively, if the target tissue is the central
   nervous system (e.g., mRNA administered for the treatment of neurodegenerative
15 diseases may specifically target brain or spinal tissue) selection and preparation of the
   transfer vehicle must consider penetration of, and retention within the blood brain
   barrier and/or the use of alternate means of directly delivering such transfer vehicle to
   such target tissue. In one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention may
   be combined with agents that facilitate the transfer of exogenous nucleic acids (e.g,,
20 agents which disrupt or improve the permeability of the blood brain barrier and
   thereby enhance the transfer of exogenous mRNA to the target cells).
           The use of liposomal transfer vehicles to facilitate the delivery of nucleic acids
   to target cells is contemplated by the present invention. Liposomes (e.g., liposomal
   lipid nanoparticles) are generally useful in a variety of applications in research,
25 industry, and medicine, particularly for their use as transfer vehicles of diagnostic or
   therapeutic compounds in vivo (Lasic, Trends Biotechnol., 16: 307-321, 1998;
   Drummond et al., Pharmacol. Rev., 51: 691-743, 1999) and are usually characterized
   as microscopic vesicles having an interior aqua space sequestered from an outer
   medium by a membrane of one or more bilayers. Bilayer membranes of liposomes
30 are typically formed by amphiphilic molecules, such as lipids of synthetic or natural
   origin that comprise spatially separated hydrophilic and hydrophobic domains (Lasic,
   Trends Biotechnol., 16: 307-321, 1998). Bilayer membranes of the liposomes can also

                                                  -20
      be formed by amphiphilic polymers and surfactants (e.g., polymerosomes, niosomes,
     etc.).
              In the context of the present invention, a liposomal transfer vehicle typically
     serves to transport the nucleic acid to the target cell. For the purposes of the present
  5  invention, the liposomal transfer vehicles are prepared to contain the desired nucleic
     acids. The process of incorporation of a desired entity (e.g., a nucleic acid) into a
     liposome is often referred to as "loading" (Lasic, et al., FEBS Lett., 312: 255-258,
      1992). The liposome-incorporated nucleic acids may be completely or partially
     located in the interior space of the liposome, within the bilayer membrane of the
 10  liposome, or associated with the exterior surface of the liposome membrane. The
     incorporation of a nucleic acid into liposomes is also referred to herein as
     "encapsulation" wherein the nucleic acid is entirely contained within the interior
     space of the liposome.
              The purpose of incorporating a nucleic acid into a transfer vehicle, such as a
 15  liposome, is often to protect the nucleic acid from an environment which may contain
     enzymes or chemicals that degrade nucleic acids and/or systems or receptors that
     cause the rapid excretion of the nucleic acids. Accordingly, in a preferred
     embodiment of the present invention, the selected transfer vehicle is capable of
     enhancing the stability of the nucleic acid(s) (e.g., mRNA encoding a functional
20   protein) contained therein. The liposome can allow the encapsulated nucleic acid to
    reach the target cell and/or may preferentially allow the encapsulated nucleic acid to
    reach the target cell, or alternatively limit the delivery of such nucleic acids to other
    sites or cells where the presence of the administered nucleic acid may be useless or
    undesirable. Furthermore, incorporating the nucleic acids into a transfer vehicle, such
25  as for example, a cationic liposome, also facilitates the delivery of such nucleic acids
    into a target cell.
             Ideally, liposomal transfer vehicles are prepared to encapsulate one or more
    desired nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA encoding a urea cycle enzyme) such that the
    compositions demonstrate a high transfection efficiency and enhanced stability.
30  While liposomes can facilitate introduction of nucleic acids into target cells, the
    addition of polycations (e.g., poly L-lysine and protamine), as a copolymer can
    facilitate, and in some instances markedly enhance the transfection efficiency of

                                               -21
   several types of cationic liposomes by 2-28 fold in a number of cell lines both in vitro
   and in vivo. (See N.J. Caplen, et al., Gene Ther. 1995; 2: 603; S. Li, et al., Gene
   Ther. 1997; 4, 891.)
           The present invention contemplates the use of cationic lipids and liposomes to
 5 encapsulate and/or enhance the delivery of nucleic acids into their target cells and
   tissues, As used herein, the phrase "cationic lipid" refers to any of a number of lipid
   species that carry a net positive charge at a selected pH, such as physiological pH.
   The contemplated liposomal transfer vehicles and lipid nanoparticles may be prepared
   by including multi-component lipid mixtures of varying ratios employing one or more
10 cationic lipids, non-cationic lipids and PEG-modified lipids. Several cationic lipids
   have been described in the literature, many of which are commercially available. In
   some embodiments, the cationic lipid N-[l-(2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N
   trimethylammonium chloride or "DOTMA" is used. (Felgner et al. (Proc. Nat'l Acad.
   Sci. 84, 7413 (1987); U.S. Pat. No. 4,897,355). DOTMA can be formulated alone or
15 can be combined with dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine or "DOPE" or other cationic
   or non-cationic lipids into a liposomal transfer vehicle or a lipid nanoparticle, and
   such liposomes can be used to enhance the delivery of nucleic acids into target cells.
   Other suitable cationic lipids include, for example, 5
   carboxyspermylglycinedioctadecylamide or "DOGS," 2,3-dioleyloxy-N-[2(spermine
20 carboxamido)ethyl]-N,N-dimethyl-1-propanaminium or "DOSPA" (Behr et al. Proc.
   Nat'l Acad. Sci. 86, 6982 (1989); U.S. Pat. No. 5,171,678; U.S. Pat. No. 5,334,761),
   1,2-Dioleoyl-3-Dimethylammonium-Propane or "DODAP", 1,2-Dioleoyl-3
   Trimethylammonium-Propane or "DOTAP". Contemplated cationic lipids also
   include 1,2-distearyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane or "DSDMA", 1,2
25 dioleyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane or "DODMA", 1,2-dilinoleyloxy-N,N
   dimethyl-3-aminopropane or "DLinDMA", 1,2-dilinolenyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3
   aminopropane or "DLenDMA", N-dioleyl-N,N-dimethylammonium chloride or
   "DODAC", N,N-distearyl-N,N-dimethylammonium bromide or "DDAB", N-(1,2
   dimyristyloxyprop-3-yl)-N,N-dimethyl-N-hydroxyethyl ammonium bromide or
30 "DMRIE", 3-dimethylamino-2-(cholest-5-en-3-beta-oxybutan-4-oxy)-I-(ci          s,cis-9,12
   octadecadienoxy)propane or "CLinDMA", 2-[5'-(cholest-5-en-3-beta-oxy)-3'
   oxapentoxy)-3-dimethy 1-1-(cis,cis-9', 1-2'-octadecadienoxy)propane or

                                                   -22
       "CpLinDMA", N,N-dimethyl-3,4-dioleyloxybenzylamine or "DMOBA", 1,2-N,N'
       dioleylcarbamyl-3-dimethylaminopropane or "DOcarbDAP", 2,3-Dilinoleoyloxy
       N,N-dimethylpropylamine or "DLinDAP", 1,2-N,N'-Dilinoleylcarbamyl-3
       dimethylaminopropane or "DLincarbDAP", 1,2-Dilinoleoylcarbamyl-3
   5   dimethylaminopropane or "DLinCDAP", 2,2-dilinoleyl-4-dimethylaminomethyl
       [1,3]-dioxolane or "DLin-K-DMA", 2,2-dilinoleyl-4-dimethylaminoethyl-[1,3]
       dioxolane or "DLin-K-XTC2-DMA", or mixtures thereof, (Heyes, J., et al., J
       Controlled Release 107: 276-287 (2005); Morrissey, DV., et al., Nat. Biotechnol.
       23(8): 1003-1007 (2005); PCT Publication W02005/121348A1).
 10            The use of cholesterol-based cationic lipids is also contemplated by the
      present invention. Such cholesterol-based cationic lipids can be used, either alone or
      in combination with other cationic or non-cationic lipids. Suitable cholesterol-based
      cationic lipids include, for example, DC-Chol (N,N-dimethyl-N
      ethylcarboxamidocholesterol), 1,4-bis(3-N-oleylamino-propyl)piperazine (Gao, et al.
 15   Biochem, Biophys. Res. Comm. 179, 280 (1991); Wolf et al. BioTechniques 23, 139
      (1997); U.S. Pat. No. 5,744,335).
               In addition, several reagents are commercially available to enhance
      transfection efficacy. Suitable examples include LIPOFECTIN (DOTMA:DOPE)
      (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.), LIPOFECTAMINE (DOSPA:DOPE) (Invitrogen),
20    LIPOFECTAMINE2000. (Invitrogen), FUGENE, TRANSFECTAM (DOGS), and
      EFFECTENE.
              Also contemplated are cationic lipids such as the dialkylamino-based,
      imidazole-based, and guanidinium-based lipids. For example, certain embodiments
     are directed to a composition comprising one or more imidazole-based cationic lipids,
25   for example, the imidazole cholesterol ester or "ICE" lipid (3S, IOR, 13R, 17R)-10,
      13-dimethyl-17-((R)-6-methylheptan-2-yl)-2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
      17-tetradecahydro- IH-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl 3-(1 H-imidazol-4
     yl)propanoate, as represented by structure (1) below. In a preferred embodiment, a
     transfer vehicle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) for delivery of RNA (e.g., mRNA) or
30   protein (e.g., an enzyme), for example a therapeutic amount of RNA or protein, may
     comprise one or more imidazole-based cationic lipids, for example, the imidazole
     cholesterol ester or "ICE" lipid (3S, 10R, 13R, 17R)-10, 13-dimethyl-17-((R)-6-

                                               -23
   methylheptan-2-yl)-2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17-tetradecahydro-I H
   cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl 3-(11H-imidazol-4-yl)propanoate, as represented by
   structure (I).
 5
                                        0
                            H
                            N
                                                                                          (I)
10
   Without wishing to be bound by a particular theory, it is believed that the fusogenicity
   of the imidazole-based cationic lipid ICE is related to the endosomal disruption which
   is facilitated by the imidazole group, which has a lower pKa relative to traditional
   cationic lipids. The endosomal disruption in turn promotes osmotic swelling and the
15 disruption of the liposomal membrane, followed by the transfection or intracellular
   release of the nucleic acid(s) contents loaded therein into the target cell.
            The imidazole-based cationic lipids are also characterized by their reduced
   toxicity relative to other cationic lipids. The imidazole-based cationic lipids (e.g.,
   ICE) may be used as the sole cationic lipid in the transfer vehicle or lipid
20 nanoparticle, or alternatively may be combined with traditional cationic lipids (e.g.,
   DOPE, DC-Chol), non-cationic lipids, PEG-modified lipids and/or helper lipids, The
   cationic lipid may comprise a molar ratio of about 1% to about 90%, about 2% to
   about 70%, about 5% to about 50%, about 10% to about 40% of the total lipid present
   in the transfer vehicle, or preferably about 20% to about 70% of the total lipid present
25 in the transfer vehicle.
            The use of polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified phospholipids and derivatized
   lipids such as derivatized cerarmides (PEG-CER), including N-Octanoyl
   Sphingosine-1-[Succinyl(Methoxy Polyethylene Glycol)-2000] (C8 PEG-2000
   ceramide) is also contemplated by the present invention, either alone or preferably in
30 combination with other lipid formulations together which comprise the transfer
   vehicle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle). Contemplated PEG-modified lipids include, but is
   not limited to, a polyethylene glycol chain of up to 5 kDa in length covalently

                                                   -24
       attached to a lipid with alkyl chain(s) of C6 -C 2 0 length. The addition of such
       components may prevent complex aggregation and may also provide a means for
       increasing circulation lifetime and increasing the delivery of the lipid-nucleic acid
       composition to the target tissues, (Klibanov et al. (1990) FEBS Letters, 268 (1): 235
   5   237), or they may be selected to rapidly exchange out of the formulation in vivo (see
       U.S. Pat. No. 5,885,613). Particularly useful exchangeable lipids are PEG-ceramides
       having shorter acyl chains (e.g., C14 or C18). The PEG-modified phospholipid and
      derivitized lipids of the present invention may comprise a molar ratio from about 0%
      to about 20%, about 0,5% to about 20%, about 1% to about 15%, about 4% to about
 10    10%, or about 2% of the total lipid present in the liposomal transfer vehicle.
              The present invention also contemplates the use of non-cationic lipids. As
      used herein, the phrase "non-cationic lipid" refers to any neutral, zwitterionic or
      anionic lipid. As used herein, the phrase "anionic lipid" refers to any of a number-of
      lipid species that carry a net negative charge at a selected pH, such as physiological
 15   pH. Non-cationic lipids include, but are not limited to, distearoylphosphatidylcholine
      (DSPC), dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC), dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine
      (DPPC), dioleoylphosphatidylglycerol (DOPG), dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol
      (DPPG), dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE),
     palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine (POPC), palmitoyloleoyl
20   phosphatidylethanolamine (POPE), dioleoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine 4-(N
       naleimidomethyl)-cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (DOPE-mal), dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl
     ethanolamine (DPPE), dimyristoylphosphoethanolamine (DMPE), distearoyl
     phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (DSPE), 16-0-monomethyl PE, 16-0-dimethyl PE, 18-1
     trans PE, I-stearoyl-2-oleoyl-phosphatidyethanolamine (SOPE), cholesterol, or a
25   mixture thereof. Such non-cationic lipids may be used alone, but are preferably used
     in combination with other excipients, for example, cationic lipids. When used in
     combination with a cationic lipid, the non-cationic lipid may comprise a molar ratio of
     5% to about 90%, or preferably about 10 % to about 70% of the total lipid present in
     the transfer vehicle.
30            Preferably, the transfer vehicle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) is prepared by
     combining multiple lipid and/or polymer components. For example, a transfer vehicle
     may be prepared using DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/C8-PEG-5000 ceramide in a molar

                                                -25
   ratio of about I to 50 : 5 to 65 : 5 to 90 : 1 to 25, respectively. A transfer vehicle may
   be comprised of additional lipid combinations in various ratios, including for
   example, DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/mPEG-5000 (e.g., combined at a molar ratio of
   about 33:40:25:2), DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/C8 PEG-2000-Cer (e.g., combined at a
 5 molar ratio of about 31:40:25:4), POPC/DODAP/C8-PEG-2000-Cer (e.g., combined
   at a molar ratio of about 75-87:3-14:10) or DSPC/CHOL/DOTAP/C8 PEG-2000-Cer
   (e.g., combined at a molar ratio of about 31:40:25:4). The selection of cationic lipids,
   non-cationic lipids and/or PEG-modified lipids which comprise the liposomal transfer
   vehicle or lipid nanoparticle, as well as the relative molar ratio of such lipids to each
10 other, is based upon the characteristics of the selected lipid(s), the nature of the
   intended target cells or tissues and the characteristics of the nucleic acids to be
   delivered by the liposomal transfer vehicle. Additional considerations include, for
   example, the saturation of the alkyl chain, as well as the size, charge, pH, pKa,
   fusogenicity and toxicity of the selected lipid(s).
15          The liposomal transfer vehicles for use in the present invention can be
   prepared by various techniques which are presently known in the art. Multi-lamellar
   vesicles (MLV) may be prepared conventional techniques, for example, by depositing
   a selected lipid on the inside wall of a suitable container or vessel by dissolving the
   lipid in an appropriate solvent, and then evaporating the solvent to leave a thin film on
20 the inside of the vessel or by spray drying. An aqueous phase may then added to the
   vessel with a vortexing motion which results in the formation of MLVs. Uni-lamellar
   vesicles (ULV) can then be formed by homogenization, sonication or extrusion of the
   multi-lamellar vesicles. In addition, unilamellar vesicles can be formed by detergent
   removal techniques.
25          In certain embodiments of this invention, the compositions of the present
   invention comprise a transfer vehicle wherein the therapeutic RNA (e.g., mRNA
   encoding OTC) is associated on both the surface of the transfer vehicle (e.g., a
   liposome) and encapsulated within the same transfer vehicle. For example, during
   preparation of the compositions of the present invention, cationic liposomal transfer
30 vehicles may associate with the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) through electrostatic
   interactions with such therapeutic mRNA.

                                                  -26
               In certain embodiments, the compositions of the present invention may be
     loaded with diagnostic radionuclide, fluorescent materials or other materials that are
     detectable in both in vitro and in vivo applications. For example, suitable diagnostic
     materials for use in the present invention may include Rhodamine
  5  dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (Rh-PE), Green Fluorescent Protein mRNA (GFP
     mRNA), Renilla Luciferase mRNA and Firefly Luciferase mRNA.
               During the preparation of liposomal transfer vehicles, water soluble carrier
     agents may be encapsulated in the aqueous interior by including them in the hydrating
     solution, and lipophilic molecules may be incorporated into the lipid bilayer by
 10  inclusion in the lipid formulation. In the case of certain molecules (e.g., cationic or
     anionic lipophilic nucleic acids), loading of the nucleic acid into preformed liposomes
     may be accomplished, for example, by the methods described in U.S. Pat. No.
     4,946,683, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Following
     encapsulation of the nucleic acid, the liposomes may be processed to remove un
15   encapsulated mRNA through processes such as gel chromatography, diafiltration or
     ultrafiltration. For example, if it is desirous to remove externally bound nucleic acid
     from the surface of the liposomal transfer vehicle formulation, such liposomes may be
     subject to a Diethylaminoethyl SEPHACEL column.
              In addition to the encapsulated nucleic acid, one or more therapeutic or
20  diagnostic agents may be included in the transfer vehicle. For example, such
    additional therapeutic agents may be associated with the surface of the liposome, can
    be incorporated into the lipid bilayer of a liposome by inclusion in the lipid
    formulation or loading into preformed liposomes (see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,194,654 and
    5,223,263, which are incorporated by reference herein).
25            There are several methods for reducing the the size, or "sizing", of liposomal
    transfer vehicles, and any of these methods may generally be employed when sizing is
    used as part of the invention. The extrusion method is a preferred method of liposome
    sizing. (Hope, M J et al. Reduction of Liposome Size and Preparation of Unilamellar
    Vesicles by Extrusion Techniques. In: Liposome Technology (G. Gregoriadis, Ed.)
30  Vol. 1. p 123 (1993). The method consists of extruding liposomes through a small
    pore polycarbonate membrane or an asymmetric ceramic membrane to reduce
    liposome sizes to a relatively well-defined size distribution. Typically, the suspension

                                                 -27
     is cycled through the membrane one or more times until the desired liposome size
     distribution is achieved. The liposomes may be extruded through successively smaller
     pore membranes to achieve gradual reduction in liposome size.
             A variety of alternative methods known in the art are available for sizing of a
  5  population of liposomal transfer vehicles. One such sizing method is described in U.S.
     Pat. No. 4,737,323, incorporated herein by reference. Sonicating a liposome
     suspension either by bath or probe sonication produces a progressive size reduction
     down to small ULV less than about 0.05 microns in diameter. Homogenization is
     another method that relies on shearing energy to fragment large liposomes into
 10  smaller ones. In a typical homogenization procedure, MLV are recirculated through a
     standard emulsion homogenizer until selected liposome sizes, typically between about
     0.1 and 0.5 microns, are observed. The size of the liposomal vesicles may be
     determined by quasi-electric light scattering (QELS) as described in Bloomfield, Ann.
     Rev. Biophys. Bioeng., 10:421-450 (1981), incorporated herein by reference.
 15 Average liposome diameter may be reduced by sonication of formed liposomes.
    Intermittent sonication cycles may be alternated with QELS assessment to guide
    efficient liposome synthesis.
             Selection of the appropriate size of a liposomal transfer vehicle must take into
    consideration the site of the target cell or tissue and to some extent the application for
20  which the liposome is being made. In some embodiments, it may be desirable to limit
    transfection of the nucleic acids to certain cells or tissues. For example, the liver
    represents an important target organ for the compositions of the present invention in
    part due to its central role in metabolism and production of proteins and accordingly
    diseases which are caused by defects in liver-specific gene products (e.g., the urea
25  cycle disorders) may benefit from specific targeting of cells (e.g., hepatocytes).
    Accordingly, in one embodiment of the present invention, the structural
    characteristics of the target tissue may be exploited to direct the distribution of the
    liposomal transfer vehicle to such target tissues. For example, to target hepatocytes a
    liposomal transfer vehicle may be sized such that its dimensions are smaller than the
30  fenestrations of the endothelial layer lining hepatic sinusoids in the liver; accordingly
    the liposomal transfer vehicle can readily penetrate such endothelial fenestrations to
    reach the target hepatocytes. Alternatively, a liposomal transfer vehicle may be sized

                                                   -28
      such that the dimensions of the liposome are of a sufficient diameter to limit or
      expressly avoid distribution into certain cells or tissues. For example, a liposomal
      transfer vehicle may be sized such that its dimensions are larger than the fenestrations
      of the endothelial layer lining hepatic sinusoids to thereby limit distribution of the
  5   liposomal transfer vehicle to hepatocytes. In such an embodiment, large liposomal
      transfer vehicles will not easily penetrate the endothelial fenestrations, and would
      instead be cleared by the macrophage Kupffer cells that line the liver sinusoids.
     Generally, the size of the transfer vehicle is within the range of about 25 to 250 nm,
     prefereably less than about 250nm, 175nm, 150nm, 125nm, I00nm, 75nm, 50nm,
 10  25nm or 10nm.
              Similarly, the compositions of the present invention may be prepared to
     preferentially distribute to other target tissues, cells or organs, such as the heart, lungs,
     kidneys, spleen. For example, the transfer vehicles of the present invention may be
     prepared to achieve enhanced delivery to the target cells and tissues. Accordingly, the
 15  compositions of the present invention may be enriched with additional cationic, non
     cationic and PEG-modified lipids to further target tissues or cells.
              In some embodiments, the compositions of the present invention distribute
     into the cells and tissues of the liver to facilitate the delivery and the subsequent
    expression of the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) comprised therein by the cells and
20  tissues of the liver (e.g., hepatocytes). While such compositions may preferentially
    distribute into the cells and tissues of the liver, the therapeutic effects of the expressed
    nucleic acids need not be limited to the target cells and tissues, For example, the
    targeted hepatocytes may function as a "reservoir" or "depot" capable of expressing
    or producing, and systemically excreting a functional protein or enzyme.
25  Accordingly, in one embodiment of the present invention the liposomal transfer
    vehicle may target hepatocyes and/or preferentially distribute to the cells and tissues
    of the liver and upon delivery. Following transfection of the target hepatocytes, the
    mRNA nucleic acids(s) loaded in the liposomal vehicle are translated and a functional
    protein product expressed, excreted and systemically distributed.
30           In some embodiments, the compositions of the present invention comprise one
    or more additional molecules (e.g., proteins, peptides, aptamers or oliogonucleotides)
    which facilitate the transfer of the nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA, miRNA, snRNA and

                                               -29
   snoRNA) from the transfer vehicle into an intracellular compartment of the target cell.
   In one embodiment, the additional molecule facilitates the delivery of the nucleic
   acids into, for example, the cytosol, the lysosome, the mitochondrion, the nucleus, the
   nucleolae or the proteasome of a target cell. Also included are agents that facilitate
 5 the transport of the translated protein of interest from the cytoplasm to its normal
   intercellular location (e.g., in the mitochondrion) to treat deficiencies in that
   organelle. In some embodiments, the agent is selected from the group consisting of a
   protein, a peptide, an aptamer, and an oligonucleotide.
            In one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention facilitate a
10 subject's endogenous production of one or more functional proteins and/or enzymes,
   and in particular the production of proteins and/or enzymes which demonstrate less
   immunogenicity relative to their recombinantly-prepared counterparts. In a preferred
   embodiment of the present invention, the transfer vehicles comprise nucleic acids
   which encode mRNA of a deficient protein or enzyme. Upon distribution of such
15 compositions to the target tissues and the subsequent transfection of such target cells,
   the exogenous mRNA loaded into the liposomal transfer vehicle (e.g., a lipid
   nanoparticle) may be translated in vivo to produce a functional protein or enzyme
   encoded by the exogenously administered mRNA (e.g., a protein or enzyme in which
   the subject is deficient). Accordingly, the compositions of the present invention
20 exploit a subject's ability to translate exogenously- or recombinantly-prepared mRNA
   to produce an endogenously-translated protein or enzyme, and thereby produce (and
   where applicable excrete) a functional protein or enzyme. The expressed or translated
   proteins or enzymes may also be characterized by the in vivo inclusion of native post
   translational modifications which may often be absent in recombinantly-prepared
25 proteins or enzymes, thereby further reducing the immunogenicity of the translated
   protein or enzyme.
            The administration of mRNA encoding a deficient protein or enzyme avoids
   the need to deliver the nucleic acids to specific organelles within a target cell (e.g.,
   mitochondria). Rather, upon transfection of a target cell and delivery of the nucleic
30 acids to the cytoplasm of the target cell, the mRNA contents of a transfer vehicle may
   be translated and a functional protein or enzyme expressed.

                                                    -30
                The present invention also contemplates the discriminatory targeting of target
       cells and tissues by both passive. and active targeting means. The phenomenon of
       passive targeting exploits the natural distributions patterns of a transfer vehicle in vivo
       without relying upon the use of additional excipients or means to enhance recognition
   5   of the transfer vehicle by target cells. For example, transfer vehicles which are
      subject to phagocytosis by the cells of the reticulo-endothelial system are likely to
      accumulate in the liver or spleen, and accordingly may provide means to passively
      direct the delivery of the compositions to such target cells.
               Alternatively, the present invention contemplates active targeting, which
 10   involves the use of additional excipients, referred to herein as "targeting ligands" that
      may be bound (either covalently or non-covalently) to the transfer vehicle to
      encourage localization of such transfer vehicle at certain target cells or target tissues.
      For example, targeting may be mediated by the inclusion of one or more endogenous
      targeting ligands (e.g., apolipoprotein E) in or on the transfer vehicle to encourage
 15   distribution to the target cells or tissues. Recognition of the targeting ligand by the
      target tissues actively facilitates tissue distribution and cellular uptake of the transfer
      vehicle and/or its contents in the target cells and tissues (e.g., the inclusion of an
      apolipoprotein-E targeting ligand in or on the transfer vehicle encourages recognition
      and binding of the transfer vehicle to endogenous low density lipoprotein receptors
20   expressed by hepatocytes). As provided herein, the composition can comprise a
     ligand capable of enhancing affinity of the composition to the target cell. Targeting
     ligands may be linked to the outer bilayer of the lipid particle during formulation or
     post-formulation. These methods are well known in the art. In addition, some lipid
     particle formulations may employ fusogenic polymers such as PEAA, hemagluttinin,
25   other lipopeptides (see U.S. Patent Application Ser. Nos. 08/835,281, and 60/083,294,
     which are incorporated herein by reference) and other features useful for in vivo
     and/or intracellular delivery. In other some embodiments, the compositions of the
     present invention demonstrate improved transfection efficacies, and/or demonstrate
     enhanced selectivity towards target cells or tissues of interest. Contemplated
30   therefore are compositions which comprise one or more ligands (e.g., peptides,
     aptamers, oligonucleotides, a vitamin or other molecules) that are capable of
     enhancing the affinity of the compositions and their nucleic acid contents for the

                                                 -31
   target cells or tissues. Suitable ligands may optionally be bound or linked to the
   surface of the transfer vehicle. In some embodiments, the targeting ligand may span
   the surface of a transfer vehicle or be encapsulated within the transfer vehicle.
   Suitable ligands and are selected based upon their physical, chemical or biological
 5 properties (e.g., selective affinity and/or recognition of target cell surface markers or
   features.) Cell-specific target sites and their corresponding targeting ligand can vary
   widely. Suitable targeting ligands are selected such that the unique characteristics of
   a target cell are exploited, thus allowing the composition to discriminate between
   target and non-target cells. For example, compositions of the present invention may
10 bear surface markers (e.g., apolipoprotein-B or apolipoprotein-E) that selectively
   enhance recognition of, or affinity to hepatocytes (e.g., by receptor-mediated
   recognition of and binding to such surface markers). Additionally, the use of
   galactose as a targeting ligand would be expected to direct the compositions of the
   present invention to parenchymal hepatocytes, or alternatively the use of mannose
15 containing sugar residues as a targeting ligand would be expected to direct the
   compositions of the present invention to liver endothelial cells (e.g., mannose
   containing sugar residues that may bind preferentially to the asialoglycoprotein
   receptor present in hepatocytes). (See Hillery AM, et al, "Drug Delivery and
   Targeting: For Pharmacists and Pharmaceutical Scientists" (2002) Taylor & Francis,
20 Inc.) The presentation of such targeting ligands that have been conjugated to moieties
   present in the transfer vehicle (e.g., a lipid nanoparticle) therefore facilitate
   recognition and uptake of the compositions of the present invention in target cells and
   tissues. Examples of suitable targeting ligands include one or more peptides, proteins,
   aptamers, vitamins and oligonucleotides.
25         As used herein, the term "subject" refers to any animal (e.g., a mammal),
   including, but not limited to, humans, non-human primates, rodents, and the like, to
   which the compositions and methods of the present invention are administered.
   Typically, the terms "subject" and "patient" are used interchangeably herein in
   reference to a human subject.
30         As used herein, the term "target cell" refers to a cell or tissue to which a
   composition of the invention is to be directed or targeted. In some embodiments, the
   target cells are deficient in a protein or enzyme of interest. For example, where it is

                                                 -32
   desired to deliver a nucleic acid to a hepatocyte, the hepatocyte represents the target
   cell. In some embodiments, the nucleic acids and compositions of the present
   invention transfect the target cells on a discriminatory basis (i.e., do not transfect non
   target cells). The compositions and methods of the present invention may be prepared
 5 to preferentially target a variety of target cells, which include, but are not limited to,
   hepatocytes, epithelial cells, hematopoietic cells, epithelial cells, endothelial cells,
   lung cells, bone cells, stem cells, mesenchymal cells, neural cells (e.g., meninges,
   astrocytes, motor neurons, cells of the dorsal root ganglia and anterior horn motor
   neurons), photoreceptor cells (e.g., rods and cones), retinal pigmented epithelial cells,
10 secretory cells, cardiac cells, adipocytes, vascular smooth muscle cells,
   cardiomyocytes, skeletal muscle cells, beta cells, pituitary cells, synovial lining cells,
   ovarian cells, testicular cells, fibroblasts, B cells, T cells, reticulocytes, leukocytes,
   granulocytes and tumor cells.
           Following transfection of one or more target cells by the compositions and
15 nucleic acids of the present invention, expression of the protein encoded by such
   nucleic acid may be preferably stimulated and the capability of such target cells to
   express the protein of interest is enhanced. For example, transfection of a target cell
   with an mRNA OTC will allow expression of the protein product OTC following
   translation of the nucleic acid.
20         The urea cycle metabolic disorders and protein or enzyme deficiencies
   generally may be amenable to treatment with the methods and compositions provided
   herein. The nucleic acids of the compositions and/or methods provided herein
   preferably encode a product (e.g., a protein, enzyme, polypeptide, peptide, functional
   RNA, and/or antisense molecule), and preferably encodes a product whose in vivo
25 production is desired.
           The urea cycle metabolic disorders represent examples of protein and enzyme
   deficiencies which may be treated using the methods and compositions provided
   herein. Such urea cycle metabolic disorders include OTC deficiency, arginosuccinate
   synthetase deficiency (ASD) and argininosuccinate lyase deficiency (ALD).
30 Therefore, in some embodiments, the nucleic acid of the methods and compositions
   provided herein encode an enzyme involved in the urea cycle, including, for example,
   ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS),

                                                 -33
      argininosuccinate synthetase I (ASSl) argininosuccinate lyase (ASL), and arginase
      (ARG).
               Five metabolic disorders which result from defects in the biosynthesis of the
      enzymes involved in the urea cycle have been described, and include ornithine
   5  transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency, carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS) deficiency,
      argininosuccinate synthetase I (ASS 1) deficiency (citrullinemia), argininosuccinate
      lyase (ASL) deficiency and arginase deficiency (ARG). Of these five metabolic
      disorders, OTC deficiency represents the most common, occurring in an estimated
      one out of every 80,000 births.
 10           OTC is a homotrimeric mitochondrial enzyme which is expressed almost
     exclusively in the liver and which encodes a precursor OTC protein that is cleaved in
     two steps upon incorporation into the mitchondrial matrix. (Horwich AL., et al. Cell
      1986; 44: 451-459). OTC deficiency is a genetic disorder which results in a mutated
     and biologically inactive form of the enzyme ornithine transcarbamylase. OTC
 15  deficiency often becomes evident in the first few days of life, typically after protein
     ingestion. In the classic severe form of OTC deficiency, within the first days of life
     patients present with lethargy, convulsions, coma and severe hyperammonemia,
     which quickly leads to a deteriorating and fatal outcome absent appropriate medical
     intervention. (Monish S., et al., Genetics for Pediatricians; Remedica, Cold Spring
20   Harbor Laboratory (2005)). If improperly treated or if left untreated, complications
     from OTC deficiency may include developmental delay and mental retardation. OTC
     deficient subjects may also present with progressive liver damage, skin lesions, and
     brittle hair. In some affected individuals, signs and symptoms of OTC deficiency
     may be less severe, and may not appear until later in life.
25            The OTC gene, which is located on the short arm of the X chromosome within
     band Xp2 1.1, spans more than 85 kb and is comprised of 10 exons encoding a protein
     of 1062 amino acids. (Lindgren V., et al. Science 1984; 226: 698-7700; Horwich,
     AL., et al. Science 224: 1068-1074, 1984; Horwich, AL. et al., Cell 44: 451-459,
     1986; Hata, A., et al., J. Biochem. 100: 717-725, 1986, which are incorporated herein
30   by reference). The OTC enzyme catalyzes the conversion or ornithine and carbamoyl
     phosphate to citrulline. Since OTC is on the X chromosome, females are primarily

                                                 -34
      carriers while males with nonconservative mutations rarely survive past 72 hours of
     birth.
              In healthy subjects, OTC is expressed almost exclusively in hepatocellular
     mitochondria. Although not expressed in the brain of healthy subjects, OTC
  5  deficiency can lead to neurological disorders. For example, one of the usual
     symptoms of OTC deficiency, which is heterogeneous in its presentation, is
     hyperammonaemic coma (Gordon, N., Eur J Paediatr Neurol 2003;7:115-121.).
              OTC deficiency is very heterogeneous, with over 200 unique mutations
     reported and large deletions that account for approximately 10-15% of all mutations,
 10  while the remainder generally comprises missense point mutations with smaller
     numbers of nonsense, splice-site and small deletion mutations. (Monish A., et al.)
     The phenotype of OTC deficiency is extremely heterogeneous, which can range from
     acute neonatal hyperammonemic coma to asymptomatic hemizygous adults, (Gordon
    N. Eur J Paediatr Neurol 2003; 7: 115-121). Those mutations that result in severe and
15   life threatening neonatal disease are clustered in important structural and functional
     domains in the interior of the protein at sites of enzyme activity or at the interchain
     surface, while mutations associated with late-onset disease are located on the protein
     surface (Monish A., et al.) Patients with milder or partial forms of OTC deficiency
    may have onset of disease later in life, which may present as recurrent vomiting,
20  neurobehavioral changes or seizures associated with hyperammonemia.
              The compositions and methods of the present invention are broadly applicable
    to the delivery of nucleic acids, and in particular mRNA, to treat a number of
    disorders. In particular, the compositions and methods of the present invention are
    suitable for the treatment of diseases or disorders relating to the deficiency of proteins
25  and/or enzymes. In one embodiment, the nucleic acids of the present invention
    encode functional proteins or enzymes that are excreted or secreted by the target cell
    into theourrounding extracellular fluid (e.g., mRNA encoding hormones and
    neurotransmitters). Alternatively, in another embodiment, the nucleic acids of the
    present invention encode functional proteins or enzymes that remain in the cytosol of
30  the target cell (e.g., mRNA encoding urea cycle metabolic disorders). Other disorders
    for which the present invention are useful include disorders such as SMNI -related
    spinal muscular atrophy (SMA); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); GALT-related

                                              -35
   galactosemia; Cystic Fibrosis (CF); SLC3AI-related disorders including cystinuria;
   COL4A5-related disorders including Alport syndrome; galactocerebrosidase
   deficiencies; X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy and adrenomyeloneuropathy;
   Friedreich's ataxia; Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease; TSC1 and TSC2-related tuberous
 5 sclerosis; Sanfilippo B syndrome (MPS IIIB); CTNS-related cystinosis; the FMR1
   related disorders which include Fragile X syndrome, Fragile X-Associated
   Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome and Fragile X Premature Ovarian Failure Syndrome;
   Prader-Willi syndrome; hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (AT); Niemann-Pick
   disease Type CI; the neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses-related diseases including
10 Juvenile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis (JNCL), Juvenile Batten disease,
   Santavuori-Haltia disease, Jansky-Bielschowsky disease, and PTT-1 and TPPI
   deficiencies; EIF2BI, EIF2B2, EIF2B3, EIF2B4 and EIF2BS-related childhood ataxia
   with central nervous system hypomyelination/vanishing white matter; CACNA1A and
   CACNB4-related Episodic Ataxia Type 2; the MECP2-related disorders including
15 Classic Rett Syndrome, MECP2-related Severe Neonatal Encephalopathy and PPM-X
   Syndrome; CDKL5-related Atypical Rett Syndrome; Kennedy's disease (SBMA);
   Notch-3 related cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarets
   and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL); SCN IA and SCN lB-related seizure disorders;
   the Polymerase G-related disorders which include Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome,
20 POLG-related sensory ataxic neuropathy, dysarthria, and ophthalmoparesis, and
   autosomal dominant and recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegia with
   mitochondrial DNA deletions; X-Linked adrenal hypoplasia; X-linked
   agammaglobulinemia; and Wilson's disease. In one embodiment, the nucleic acids,
   and in particular mRNA, of the present invention may encode functional proteins or
25 enzymes. For example, the compositions of the present invention may include mRNA
   encoding erythropoietin, al -antitrypsin, carboxypeptidase N or human growth
   hormone.
           Alternatively the nucleic acids may encode full length antibodies or smaller
   antibodies (e.g., both heavy and light chains) to confer immunity to a subject. While
30 one embodiment of the present invention relates to methods and compositions useful
   for conferring immunity to a subject (e.g., via the translation of mRNA nucleic acids
   encoding functional antibodies), the inventions disclosed herein and contemplated

                                                  -36
     hereby are broadly applicable. In an alternative embodiment the compositions of the
     present invention encode antibodies that may be used to transiently or chronically
     effect a functional response in subjects. For example, the mRNA nucleic acids of the
     present invention may encode a functional monoclonal or polyclonal antibody, which
  5  upon translation (and as applicable, systemic excretion from the target cells) may be
     useful for targeting and/or inactivating a biological target (e.g., a stimulatory cytokine
     such as tumor necrosis factor). Similarly, the mRNA nucleic acids of the present
     invention may encode, for example, functional anti-nephritic factor antibodies useful
     for the treatment of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis type II or acute
 10  hemolytic uremic syndrome, or alternatively may encode anti-vascular endothelial
     growth factor (VEGF) antibodies useful for the treatment of VEGF-mediated
     diseases, such as cancer.
             The compositions of the present invention can be administered to a subject. In
     some embodiments, the composition is formulated in combination with one or more
 15  additional nucleic acids, carriers, targeting ligands or stabilizing reagents, or in
    pharmacological compositions where it is mixed with suitable excipients. For
    example, in one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention may be
    prepared to deliver nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) encoding two or more distinct proteins
    or enzymes. Alternatively, the compositions of the present invention may be prepared
20  to deliver a single nucleic acid and two or more populations or such compositions
    may be combined in a single dosage form or co-administered to a subject.
    Techniques for formulation and administration of drugs may be found in
    "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences," Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa., latest
    edition.
25           A wide range of molecules that can exert pharmaceutical or therapeutic effects
    can be delivered into target cells using compositions and methods of the present
    invention. The molecules can be organic or inorganic. Organic molecules can be
    peptides, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, sterols, nucleic acids (including peptide
    nucleic acids), or any combination thereof A formulation for delivery into target
30  cells can comprise more than one type of molecule, for example, two different
    nucleotide sequences, or a protein, an enzyme or a steroid.

                                               -37
            The compositions of the present invention may be administered and dosed in
    accordance with current medical practice, taking into account the clinical condition of
   the subject, the site and method of administration, the scheduling of administration,
   the subject's age, sex, body weight and other factors relevant to clinicians of ordinary
 5 skill in the art. The "effective amount" for the purposes herein may be determined by
   such relevant considerations as are known to those of ordinary skill in experimental
   clinical research, pharmacological, clinical and medical arts. In some embodiments,
   the amount administered is effective to achieve at least some stabilization,
   improvement or elimination of symptoms and other indicators as are selected as
10 appropriate measures of disease progress, regression or improvement by those of skill
   in the art. For example, a suitable amount and dosing regimen is one that causes at
   least transient expression of the nucleic acid in the target cell.
            Suitable routes of administration include, for example, oral, rectal, vaginal,
   transmucosal, or intestinal administration; parenteral delivery, including
15 intramuscular, subcutaneous, intramedullary injections, as well as intrathecal, direct
   intraventricular, intravenous, intraperitoneal, intranasal, or intraocular injections.
            Alternately, the compositions of the present invention may be administered in
   a local rather than systemic manner, for example, via injection of the pharmaceutical
   composition directly into a targeted tissue, preferably in a depot or sustained release
20 formulation.     Local delivery can be affected in various ways, depending on the tissue
   to be targeted. For example, aerosols containing compositions of the present
   invention can be inhaled (for nasal, tracheal, or bronchial delivery); compositions of
   the present invention can be injected into the site of injury, disease manifestation, or
   pain, for example; compositions can be provided in lozenges for oral, tracheal, or
25 esophageal application; can be supplied in liquid, tablet or capsule form for
   administration to the stomach or intestines, can be supplied in suppository form for
   rectal or vaginal application; or can even be delivered to the eye by use of creams,
   drops, or even injection. Formulations containing compositions of the present
   invention complexed with therapeutic molecules or ligands can even be surgically
30 administered, for example in association with a polymer or other structure or
   substance that can allow the compositions to diffuse from the site of implantation to

                                                  -38
       surrounding cells. Alternatively, they can be applied surgically without the use of
       polymers or supports,
                In one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention are formulated
       such that they are suitable for extended-release of the nucleic acids contained therein.
   5   Such extended-release compositions may be conveniently administered to a subject at
       extended dosing intervals. For example, in one embodiment, the compositions of the
       present invention are administered to a subject twice day, daily or every other day. In
       a preferred embodiment, the compositions of the present invention are administered to
       a subject twice a week, once a week, every ten days, every two weeks, every three
 10    weeks, or more preferably every four weeks, once a month, every six weeks, every
       eight weeks, every other month, every three months, every four months, every six
      months, every eight months, every nine months or annually. Also contemplated are
      compositions and liposomal vehicles which are formulated for depot administration
      (e.g., intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intravitreally) to either deliver or release a
 15   nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) over extended periods of time. Preferably, the extended
      release means employed are combined with modifications made to the nucleic acid to
      enhance stability.
               While certain compounds, compositions and methods of the present invention
      have been described with specificity in accordance with certain embodiments, the
20    following examples serve only to illustrate the compounds of the invention and are
      not intended to limit the same. Each of the publications, reference materials, accession
     numbers and the like referenced herein to describe the background of the invention
     and to provide additional detail regarding its practice are hereby incorporated by
     reference in their entirety.
25             The articles "a" and "an" as used herein in the specification and in the claims,
     unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to include the plural
     referents. Claims or descriptions that include "or" between one or more members of a
     group are considered satisfied if one, more than one, or all of the group members are
     present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process unless
30   indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. The invention
     includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is present in,
     employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention also

                                                -39
    includes embodiments in which more than one, or the entire group members are
   present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process.
   Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention encompasses all variations,
   combinations, and permutations in which one or more limitations, elements, clauses,
 5 descriptive terms, etc., from one or more of the listed claims is introduced into
   another claim dependent on the same base claim (or, as relevant, any other claim)
   unless otherwise indicated or unless it would be evident to one of ordinary skill in the
   art that a contradiction or inconsistency would arise. Where elements are presented
   as lists, (e.g., in Markush group or similar format) it is to be understood that each
10 subgroup of the elements is also disclosed, and any element(s) can be removed from
   the group. It should be understood that, in general, where the invention, or aspects of
   the invention, is/are referred to as comprising particular elements, features, etc.,
   certain enbodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist, or consist
   essentially of, such elements, features, etc. For purposes of simplicity those
15 embodiments have not in every case been specifically set forth in so many words
   herein. It should also be understood that any embodiment or aspect of the invention
   can be explicitly excluded from the claims, regardless of whether the specific
   exclusion is recited in the specification. The publications and other reference
   materials referenced herein to describe the background of the invention and to provide
20 additional detail regarding its practice are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                            EXAMPLES
   Example I
   General Preparationof Transfer Vehicles by Solvent Dilution Technique
25          This example generally illustrates a process for the manufacture of small (<
   100 nm) liposomal formulations containing mRNA and the means to evaluate the
   amount of mRNA encapsulated. Parameters which may be modified to further
   optimize transfection efficiency include, but are not limited to, the selection of lipid,
   the ratio of lipids, the molar ratio of the PEG-containing lipid, the length of the lipid
30 anchor of the PEG-containing lipid and the sizing of the liposomal transfer vehicles.
            Appropriate quantities of lipids (e.g., DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/C8-PEG2000
   Cer) to construct a transfer vehicle of a desired lipid ratio (e.g., a molar ratio of

                                                    -40
        31:40:25:4) were weighed and dissolved in absolute ethanol at 70'C to obtain the
        desired lipid ratios and concentrations. In order to monitor the lipid, a small amount
       (typically 0.05 mole%) of rhodamine-dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (Rh-PE) was
       routinely added to the lipid solution.
   5            mRNA, for example, encoding for GFP, OTC or Luciferase was denatured by
       heating for 10 minutes at 70'C, followed by cooling on ice. This solution was
       analyzed to confirm the mRNA concentration prior to formulation, An aliquot of
       mRNA was diluted with water, and then combined with an equal volume of 10 mM
       citrate pH 5.0 buffer such that the final citrate content following lipid addition (from
 10    solvent) was 4 mM.
               The mRNA/citrate buffer solutions were then heated to 90'C for 5 minutes to
       completely denature the mRNA. While stirring or vortexing the denatured mRNA,
      the ethanolic lipid solution (at 70'C) was added to the mRNA to generate multi
       lamellar vesicles (MLVs). The MLVs were then cooled to 70'C prior to extrusion.
 15   For samples prepared at high solvent concentrations (> 20%), the MLVs were diluted
      with 5 mM pH1 5.0 citrate buffer (at 70'C) to produce a solvent concentration of 20%
      before extrusion to generate large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs).
               MLVs were extruded at 70'C through 3 stacked 80 nm polycarbonate filters,
      using a thermo-jacketed extruder. Five passes were routinely used to generate large
20    unilamellar vesicles (LUVs) of the desired size range.           Following extrusion, the
      formulations were filtered through a 0.2tm syringe filter to remove small amounts of
      particulate material that tended to interfere with the determination of vesicle size.
               mRNA that was not associated with the liposomes or was associated with the
      exterior surface of DODAP-containing liposomes was removed by anion exchange,
25   such that all remaining associated mRNA was encapsulated in the liposomes. Two
     suitable methods include the use of anion exchange using Acrodisc units with
     MUSTANG         Q membranes    (Pall Life Sciences), or anion exchange using DEAE
     SEPHACEL (Sigma-Aldrich, suspension in 20% ethanol). These techniques allowed
     for efficient removal of unencapsulated mRNA without significant dilution of the
30   formulations.
               Following removal of external mRNA, buffer could be exchanged by use of
     PD-10 gel filtration columns (SEPHADEX G-25, GE Healthcare) using a spin

                                                 -41
    protocol, which permits small molecular weight constituents (such as solvent and
    borate) in the liposome formulation to be retained in the gel and replaced by the
   equilibration buffer, without significant dilution of the sample. Alternatively, in some
   experiments, solvent may be removed and buffer exchanged using a Spectrum
 5 500,000 MWCO diafiltration cartridge. Samples were ultrafiltered to 2-10 mL, then
   diafiltered against 10 wash volumes of the desired final buffer to remove solvent and
   exchange the buffer. The sample was sometimes further concentrated by
   ultrafiltration after the diafiltration process.
            To quantify mRNA in samples with low lipid:mRNA ratios, a standard curve
10 of mRNA was prepared by diluting the stock solution with water to obtain standards
   in the range of 0-200 g/mL. Samples were diluted (based on expected mRNA
   concentrations) with the appropriate buffer to produce mRNA concentrations within
   the standard range. 180LL aliquots of the standards or samples were combined with
   300pAL of 5% SDS and 120 iL of ethanol. The samples were incubated for 10 min. at
15 50'C to dissolve the lipid. After cooling, the samples were transferred in duplicate
   (250tL aliquots) into the wells of a UV-transparent microplate. The absorbance at
   260nm was measured and the mRNA concentration in the samples calculated from the
   standard curve. In samples where the lipid:mRNA (weight: weight) ratio was 10:1
   (target ratio) or less, interference from the lipids with the absorbance at 260 nm was
20 relatively low and could be ignored.
            In samples where the lipid:mRNA (weight: weight) ratio was greater than
    10:1, lipid interference became more significant as the amount of lipid increased, and
   therefore the lipid had to be removed in order to accurately quantify the mRNA
   content. A standard curve of mRNA was prepared by diluting the stock solution with
25 water to obtain standards in the range of 0-2504g/mL. The samples to be assessed
   were diluted (based on expected mRNA concentrations) with the appropriate buffer to
   produce mRNA concentrations within the standard range. 180 [iL of the standards or
   samples were combined with 20 [tL 0.1 M sodium borate (to increase the pH, thus
   neutralizing the charge on the DODAP in the liposome samples, and causing the
30 mRNA to dissociate from the DODAP). 600 VL of chloroform: methanol (1:2, v:v)
   was added to each standard or sample and the samples were vortexed. 200 pL of
   chloroform was added with vortexing followed by the addition of 200 tL of water.

                                                -42
     The samples were vigorously vortexed and then centrifuged for 2 min. at 1000xg to
     separate the phases. 250 tL aliquots of the upper (aqueous) phase were transferred
     (in duplicate) into the wells of a LJV-transparent microplate and the absorbance at 260
     nm was measured. The mRNA concentration in samples was calculated from the
  5  standard curve. Note that for liposome samples containing DOTAP (or any other
     cationic lipid that cannot be neutralized by incubation at high pH), this assay is
     unsuitable for determining mRNA concentration as the mRNA cannot be
     disassociated from the DOTAP and a proportion of the mRNA tends to be extracted
     into the solvent (CHCl3 ) phase in conjunction with the lipid.
 10          mRNA encapsulation was determined by separation of samples on DEAE
     SEPHACEL (anion exchange gel) columns as follows. Using 2 mL glass Pasteur
     pipettes plugged with glass wool, columns of DEAE-SEPHACEL were poured and
     equilibrated with 5 volumes (-10 mL) of 145 mM sodium chloride-10 mM borate
     buffer pH 8.0. 0.5 mL of sample was loaded onto a column and the eluate collected.
 15  The columns were washed with 7x0.5 mL aliquots of 145 mM sodium chloride-10
     mM borate buffer pH 8.0, collecting each eluted fraction separately. The initial
     sample and each aliquot was assayed for mRNA and lipid as described above. The %
     encapsulation was calculated by 100 x (mRNA/lipid) of material eluted from the
    column / (mRNA/lipid) of initial sample). Based on the calculated mRNA
20  concentration from extraction analyses described above liposomal mRNA samples
    were diluted to a desired mRNA concentration (1 Lg) in a total volume of 5 tL (i.e,
    0.2 mg/mL).
    Example 2
25  Preparationof DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/C8-PEG-2000ceramide ('molar ratio of
    31:40:25:4)/RenillaLuciferase mRNA (Formulation1)
             Formulation 1 was prepared by dissolving the appropriate masses of DSPC,
    CHOL, DODAP and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide in absolute ethanol, then adding this to
    a solution of Renilla Luciferase mRNA in buffer to produce MLVs at 10.8 mg/mL
30  lipid, 250 pg/mL mRNA, 20% solvent. The MLVs were extruded to produce LUVs,
    and then passed through a 0.2 tm filter. The pH was increased by combining with an
    equal volume of 100 mM NaCl-50 mM borate pH 8.0 and the external mRNA

                                               -43
   removed by anion exchange using the DEAE-Sephacel centrifugation method, as
   described in Example 1. The solvent was removed, the external buffer exchanged and
   the sample concentrated by diafiltration/ultrafiltration. The concentrated sample was
   then passed through a 0.2 tm filter and aliquots were transferred to vials and stored at
 5 2-8"C.
   Example 3
   Preparationof DSPC/CHOL/DOTAP/C8-PEG-2000 ceramide (molar ratio of
   31:40:25.4)/RenillaLuciferase mRNA (Formulation2)
10          Formulation 2 was prepared using a similar methodology as Formulation 1
   with minor changes. In brief, the appropriate masses of DSPC, CHOL, DOTAP and
   C8-PEG-2000 ceramide were dissolved in absolute ethanol and then added to a
   solution of Renilla Luciferase mRNA in buffer to produce MLVs at 10.8 mg/mL
   lipid, 250 [tg/mL mRNA, 20% solvent. The MLVs were extruded to produce LUVs.
15 As DOTAP was used in this formulation, the external mRNA could not be effectively
   removed by anion exchange and therefore this step was omitted. The solvent was
   removed, the external buffer exchanged and the sample concentrated by
   diafiltration/ultrafiltration. The concentrated sample was then passed through a 0.2
   ptm filter and aliquots were transferred to vials and stored at 2-8'C.
20
   Example 4
   Preparationof DSPC/CHOL/DODA P/C8-PEG-2000 ceramide (molar ratio of
   31:40:25:4)/FireflyLuciferase mRNA (Formulation3)
            To prepare Formulation 3 the appropriate masses of DSPC, CHOL, DODAP
25 and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide were dissolved in absolute ethanol, then added to a
   solution of Firefly Luciferase mRNA in buffer to produce MLVs at 10.8 mg/mL lipid,
   250 ptg/mL mRNA, 20% solvent. The MLVs were extruded to produce LUVs, and
   then passed through a 0.2 pLm filter. The pH was increased by combining with 0.1
   volumes of 0.1 M sodium borate and the external mRNA removed by anion exchange
30 using the DEAE-Sephacel column method described in Example 1. The solvent was
   removed, the external buffer exchanged and the sample concentrated by

                                                  -44
      diafiltration/ultrafiltration. The concentrated sample was then passed through a 0.2
       tm filter and aliquots were transferred to vials and stored at 2-8'C.
      Example 5
  5   Preparationof DSPC/CHOL/DODAP/C8-PEG-2000                ceramide (molar ratio of
      31:40:2:4)/MurineOTC mRNA (Formulation4)
               Formulation 4 was prepared by dissolving the appropriate mass of DSPC,
      CHOL, DODAP and C8-PEG-2000 ceramide in absolute ethanol, then adding this to
     a solution of murine OTC mRNA in buffer to produce MLVs at 10.8 mg/mL lipid,
 10  250 tg/mL mRNA, 20% solvent. The MLVs were extruded to produce LUVs, and
     then passed through a 0.2 tm filter. The pH was increased by combining with 0.1
     volumes of 0.1 M sodium borate and the external mRNA removed by anion exchange
     using the DEAE-Sephacel column method as described in Example 1. The solvent
     was removed, the external buffer exchanged and the sample concentrated by
15   diafiltration/ultrafiltration. The concentrated sample was then passed through a 0.2
     pm filter and aliquots were transferred to vials and stored at 2-8'C.
     Example 6
     Preparationand Characterizationof the imidiazole cholesterol ester lipid (3S, 10 R,
20   13R, 17R)-10, 13-dimethyl-17-((R)-6-methylheptan-2-yl)-2, 3, .4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
     13, 14, 15, 16, 17-tetradecahydro-IH-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-3-yl      3-(IH
     imidazol-4-yl)propanoate;Imidazole CholesterolEster (ICE)
              FIG. I depicts the reaction scheme for the synthesis of ICE. A mixture of
    trityl-deamino-histidine (1), (1.97g, 5.15mmol), cholesterol,(2), (1.97 g, 5.1 mmol),
25  dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC), (2.12g, 5.2mmol) and dimethylaminopyridine
    (DMAP), (0.13g, 1.Ommol) in anhydrous benzene (100ml) was stirred at ambient
    temperature for two days. The resulting suspension was filtered through Celite and
    the filtrate was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting foam was dried under
    high vacuum overnight to provide crude ester (3) which was used on the following
30  step without purification.
              The crude ester (3) was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane (DCM),
    (200ml) and trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), (50 ml) was added at room temperature. The

                                                -45
    resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 4 hours. Aqueous saturated
    NaHC0     3 (250m]) was added carefully, followed by solid Na 2 CO 3 until slightly basic.
             The phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM
    (200 ml). The organic phases were washed with brine (200ml), dried (Na2 SO 4 ) and
 5  filtered. The resulting filtrate was evaporated and the residue was dried under high
    vacuum overnight. Flash chromatography purification (silica gel, 0-10% methanol in
    chloroform) afforded the desired pure product (4) (1.07g, 37% yield for two steps) as
    a white solid (mp: 192-194'C).
             'H NMR (CDC 3): 6 0.66 (s, 3H), 0.84-1.64 (in, 33H), 1.76-2.05 (in, 5H), 2.29
10  (d, 2H), 2.63 (t, 2H), 2.90 (t, 2H), 4.61 (m, 1H), 5.36 (d, iH), 6.80 (s, 1H), 7.53 (s,
    IH). "C NMR (CDCl 3 ): 6 11.9, 18.8, 19.4, 21.1, 21.6, 22.6, 22.9, 23.9, 24.4, 27.8,
   28.1, 28.3, 31.9, 34.5, 35.9, 36.3, 36.7, 37.0, 38.2, 39.6, 39.8, 42.4, 50.1, 56.2, 56.8,
    74.1, 122.8, 134.7, 139.6, 173.4. APCI(+)-MS (m/z): Caled. 509, Found 509. Elem.
   Anal. (C,H,N): Calcd. 77.90, 10.30, 5.51; Found 77.65, 10.37, 5.55.
15
   Example 7
   FormulationProtocol
             A codon-optimized firefly luciferase messenger RNA represented by SEQ ID
   NO: I (FFL mRNA) was synthesized by in vitro transcription from a plasmid DNA
20 template encoding the gene, which was followed by the addition of a 5' cap structure
   (Capl) and a 3' poly(A) tail of approximately 200 nucleotides in length as determined
   by gel electrophoresis. (See, e.g., Fechter, P. et al., J. Gen. Virology, 86, 1239-1249
   (2005), the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.)
   The 5' and 3' untranslated regions present in the FFL mRNA product are underlined
25 (SEQ ID NO: 1).
            Nanoparticulate transfer vehicles were formed via standard ethanol injection
   methods. (See, e.g., Ponsa, M., et al., Int. J. Pharm. 95, 51-56 (1993), the contents of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.) Ethanolic stock solutions of the lipids
   were prepared ahead of time at a concentration of 50mg/mL and stored at -204C.
30 FFL mRNA was stored in water at a final concentration of I mg/mL at -80'C until the
   time of use.

                                                   -46
                All mRNA concentrations were determined via the Ribogreen assay
       (Invitrogen). Encapsulation of mRNA was calculated by performing the Ribogreen
       assay both with and without the presence of 0.1% Triton-X 100. Particle sizes
       (dynamic light scattering (DLS)) and zeta potentials were determined using a Malvern
   5  Zetasizer instrument in 1x PBS and 1mM KCl solutions, respectively.
                Aliquots of 50mg/mL ethanolic solutions of an imidazole cholesterol ester
       lipid (ICE), DOPE and DMG-PEG-2000 were mixed and diluted with ethanol to a
      final volume of 3mL. The molar ratio of the prepared ICE:DOPE:DMG-PEG-2000
      transfer vehicle was 70:25:5. Separately, an aqueous buffered solution (10mM
 10   citrate/i 50mM NaCI, pH 4.5) of FFL mRNA was prepared from a 1mg/mL stock.
      The lipid solution was injected rapidly into the aqueous mRNA solution and shaken to
      yield a final suspension in 20% ethanol. The resulting nanoparticulate suspension
      was filtered, diafiltrated with 1x PBS (pH 7.4), concentrated and stored at 2-8'C. The
      final concentration was equal to 1.73mg/mL CO-FF mRNA (encapsulated), the Zave
 15   was equal to 68.Onm (with a Dv(s) of 41.8nm, and a Dv(90 ) of 78.Onm) and the Zeta
      potential was equal to +25.7 mV.
     BiodistributionAnalysis
               All studies were performed using female CD-1 mice of approximately 3
20   weeks age at the beginning of each experiment. Samples were introduced by a single
     bolus tail-vein injection of an equivalent total dose of 2 00tg of encapsulated FFL
     mRNA. Four hours post-injection the mice were sacrificed and perfused with saline.
               The liver and spleen of each mouse was harvested, apportioned into three
     parts, and stored in either, (i) 10% neutral buffered formalin, (ii) snap-frozen and
25   stored at -80'C for bioluminescence analysis (see below), or for in situ hybridization
     studies, or (iii) liver sections were isolated in isopentane (2-methylbutane) bath,
     maintained at -35'C, rinsed with 1x PBS, lightly patted with a kimwipe to remove
     any excess fluid, placed in the bath for approximately 5-7 minutes, after which the
     liver was removed, wrapped in foil and stored in a small sterile plastic bag at -80'C
30   until ready for assay.
               The bioluminescence assay was conducted using a Promega Luciferase Assay
     System (Item # El 500 Promega). Tissue preparation was performed as follows:

                                              -47
    Portions of the desired tissue sample (snap-frozen) were thawed, washed with RODI
    water and placed in a ceramic bead homogenization tube. The tissue was treated with
    lysis buffer and homogenized. Upon subjection to five freeze/thaw cycles followed
    by centrifugation at 4 C, the supernatant was transferred to new microcentrifuge
 5 tubes. Repeat and store tissue extracts at -80C.
            The Luciferase Assay Reagent was prepared by adding I 0mL of Luciferase
   Assay Buffer to Luciferase Assay Substrate and mix via vortex. 20pL of homogenate
   samples was loaded onto a 96-well plate followed by 20ptL of plate control to each
   sample. Separately, 120pLL of Luciferase Assay Reagent (prepared as described
10 above) was loaded onto each well of a 96-well flat bottomed plate. Each plate was
   inserted into the appropriate chambers using a Molecular Device Flex Station
   instrument and measure the luminescence (measured in relative light units (RLU)).
   In Situ Hybridization
15  Tissue Slide Preparation
            Slide preparation and analysis was performed as follows: Each liver was
   frozen at -35C according to the procedure described above. The frozen livers were
   cut into 6 micrometer sections and mounted onto glass microscope slides. Prior to in
   situ hybridization, the sections were fixed in 4% formaldehyde in phosphate buffered
20 saline (PBS), treated with trienthanolamine/acetic anhydride and washed and
   dehydrated through a series of ethanol solutions.
   c RNA Probe Preparation
           DNA templates were designed consisting of pBSKII+ vector containing EcoRI
25 and Xbal restriction sites for generation of the antisense and sense strands,
   respectively. cRNA transcripts were synthesized from these DNA templates
   (antisense and sense strands, each 700bp) with T3 and T7 RNA polymerase,
   respectively. Templates were validated by cold RNA probe synthesis prior to making
                     35
   riboprobes with     S-UTP. Both antisense and sense radiolabeled riboprobes were
30 synthesized in vitro according to the manufacturer's protocol (Ambion) and labeled
   with 35S-UTP (>1,000 Ci/mmol).

                                                   -48
        Hybridization and Washing Procedures
                 Sections were hybridized overnight at 55C in deionized fonnamide, 0.3 M
        NaCl, 20 mM Tris-HCI (pH 7.4), 5 mM EDTA, 10 mM Na 2HPO 4, 10% dextran
        sulfate, IX Denhardt's reagent, 50[g/mL total yeast RNA and 50-80,000 cpm/ L 35S
   5    labeled cRNA probe. The tissues were subjected to stringent washing at 65'C in 50%
       formamide, 2X SSC, 10 mM DTT and washed in PBS before treatment with 20tg/ml
       RNAse A at 37*C for 30 minutes. Following washes in 2X SSC and 0.1X SSC for 10
       minutes at 37'C, the slides were dehydrated and exposed to Kodak BioMaxMR x-ray
       film for 90 minutes then submitted to emulsion autoradiography for 11 and 24 hours
  10   exposure times.
       Imaging of Liver Sections
                Photographic development was carried out in Kodak D-19. Sections were
       counterstained lightly with cresyl violet and analyzed using brightfield and darkfield
 15   microscopy. Sense (control) riboprobes established the level of background signal,
      In Vivo Bioluminescence Results
                Animals were injected intravenously with a single 200 tg dose of encapsulated
      mRNA and sacrificed after four hours. Activity of expressed firefly luciferase protein
 20   in livers and spleens was determined in a bioluminescence assay. As demonstrated in
      FIG. 2, detectable signal over baseline was observed in every animal tested. The
      presence of a luminescent signal over background infers the expression of firefly
      luciferase protein from the exogenous mRNA. Luminescence observed in the liver
     was enhanced over similar signals observed in the spleen.
25
     In Situ Hybridization Results
               In situ hybridization studies were performed on liver taken from two different
     animals from the group of mice treated using an ICE:DOPE:DMG-PEG-2000 transfer
     vehicle (prepared as previously described) and one control liver from the untreated
30   group of mice. X-Ray film autoradiography was employed for the detection of
     codon-optimized firefly luciferase mRNA via       35
                                                         S-U labeled riboprobes. (See, Wilcox,
     J.N. J. Histochem. Cytochem. 41, 1725-1733 (1993)). FIG. 3 demonstrates both

                                              -49
   brightfield illumination (cresyl violet counterstain) and darkfield illumination of
   control and treated livers under low (2X) magnification. CO-FF luciferase mRNA
   was detected in both treated livers (B1  and B2, thin arrows) but not the control liver
   (Ct) when using the antisense riboprobe (FIG 3B). High-level mRNA labeling was
 5 observed in the liver marginal tissue band (large arrow). No signal was detected in
   any liver when applying the control (sense) riboprobe (FIG. 3C).
            Under a dark field illumination labeled FFL mRNA was detected as bright
   spots (1OOX magnification) in the livers of injected animals by hybridization of an
   antisense probe of FFL mRNA (FIG. 4A), while the same liver showed few bright
10 spots when a sense strand probe of FFL mRNA was used for hybridization (FIG. 4C).
   A control liver taken from an animal that did not receive any nanoparticles by
   injection did not produce any significant signal under dark field illumination when
   either the antisense (FIG. 4E) or sense probes (FIG. 4G) were used for hybridization.
15 Example 8
   immunohistochemicalAnalysis Results
            The FFL mRNA was packaged and delivered via a lipid transfer vehicle
   formulation consisting of cholesterol, DOPE, DLinDMA, and DMG-PEG2000 in a
   manner similar to that described supra.
20          The translation of the FFL mRNA into its respective protein has been
   successfully identified via immunohistochemical analysis (FIG. 5). Using an anti
   firefly antibody, the detection of expressed firefly protein can be observed in the
   hepatocytes of treated mice (FIG 5B and 5C). The analysis of control mice treated
   with Ix PBS demonstrated no detectable firefly protein (FIG. 5A).
25
   Discussion
            A synthetic messenger RNA encapsulted in lipid-based materials can be used
   for the delivery and expression of genes in vivo in liver including heptocytes.
   Mixtures of cationic, non-cationic and PEG-modified lipids were used to express a
30 reporter protein molecule. The imidazole-based cationic lipid ICE resulted in
   enriched delivery of mRNA to liver versus spleen in vivo. The observation of a
   bioluminescent signal demonstrates that a protein reporter molecule was translated

                                                    -50
   from the exogenous mRNA that was delivered in a lipid nanoparticle in vivo. In situ
                                                                                                 35
   hybridization studies demonstrated the direct detection of the exogenous mRNA through            S-U
   riboprobe labeling. Emulsion autoradiography produced a signal that can be used to localize the
   mRNA to liver tissue and more specifically to hepatocytes present in the livers of treated
 5 animals (See, FIGS. 3 and 4). FFL mRNA was not detected in the livers of untreated control
   mice.
            The successful delivery of such mRNA to the liver and in particular to hepatocytes
   supports the conclusion that the methods, formulations and compositions of the present
   invention can be used for the treatment and the correction of in-born errors of metabolism that
[0 are localized to the liver. For example, diseases such as ASD, ARG, CPS, ASSI and OTC
   deficiencies, as well as other disorders may be treated through mRNA replacement therapy of a
   missing or malfunctioning gene. Metabolic zonation of the urea cycle to hepatocytes means that
   replacement of the missing enzyme activity in these cells should greatly improve normal
   biochemical processing in subjects afflicted by an enzyme deficiency, and in particular subjects
[5 afflicted with a urea cycle disorder.
            The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
   used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
   other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of
   the term is required.
 W          Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
   disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.

                                                  -51
CLAIMS
1.       A method of delivery of messenger RNA (mRNA) for in vivo production of a protein for
treating a metabolic disorder resulting from an enzyme deficiency, said method comprising:
         administering to a subject a composition comprising an mRNA encoding the protein, said
mRNA encapsulated within a liposome such that the administering of the composition results in
the prolonged stable expression of the protein encoded by the mRNA in the liver.
2.       A method of treating a metabolic disorder comprising:
         administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to a metabolic disorder
resulting from an enzyme deficiency of an enzyme a composition comprising an mRNA
encoding an enzyme, said mRNA encapsulated within a liposome such that the administering
of the composition results in prolonged stable expression of the enzyme encoded by the mRNA
in the liver sufficient to treat the enzyme deficiency.
3.       A composition when used for in vivo production of protein for treating a metabolic
disorder resulting from an enzyme deficiency, said composition comprising an mRNA encoding
a protein, said mRNA encapsulated within a liposome, wherein the composition once administered
in vivo results in prolonged stable expression of the protein encoded by the mRNA in the liver.
4.       The method of claim 1 or claim 2 or the composition of claim 3, wherein the liposome
comprises one or more cationic lipids, one or more non-cationic lipids, one or more cholesterol
based lipids and one or more PEG-modified lipids.
5.       The composition of claim 3, wherein the composition when administered in vivo results in
prolonged stable expression of the protein encoded by the mRNA in the liver.
6.       The method of claim 1 or claim 4 or the composition of any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein
the mRNA is of at least 30 kDa.
7.       The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 or the composition of any one of claims 3 to 6,
wherein the mRNA is modified to enhance stability.
8.       The method or the composition of claim 7, wherein the mRNA is modified to include a
modified nucleotide, an alteration to the 5' or 3' untranslated region, a cap structure or a poly A
tail.

                                                -52
9.      The method or the composition of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the mRNA is modified to
include a pseudouridine.
10.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 or the composition of any one of claims 3 to 6,
wherein the mRNA is unmodified.
11.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 10 or the composition of any one of claims 3
to 10, wherein the protein encoded by the mRNA is an enzyme, a hormone, a receptor or an
antibody.
12.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 11 or the composition of any one of claims 3
to 11, wherein the protein encoded by the mRNA or the enzyme is a liver-specific enzyme.
13.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 12, wherein the protein is retained within the
cytosol of the liver cells after expression.
14.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 12, wherein the protein is secreted
extracellularly after expression.
15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the protein is systemically distributed.
16.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 15, wherein the expression of the protein
encoded by the mRNA in the liver is detectable at least 4 hours post administration.
17.     The method of any one of claims 1, 4 and 6 to 16 or the composition of any one of claims 3
to 12, wherein the composition comprises two or more mRNAs encoding two or more distinct
proteins.
18.     The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 and 6 to 17, wherein the composition is
administered intravenously.
19.       The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 and 6 to 18, wherein the composition is
administered bi-weekly.
20.     The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 and 6 to 19, wherein the composition is
administered monthly.

                                                 -53
21.     The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 and 6 to 20, wherein the mRNA is administered
systemically.
22.     The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 and 6 to 21 or the composition of any one of
claims 3 to 12 and 17, wherein the protein or the enzyme is selected from omithine
transcarbamylase (OTC), carbamyl phosphate synthetase (CPS), argininosuccinate synthetase 1
(ASS 1), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL) or arginase (ARG).
23.     A cationic lipid:
           0O
              N
               NH
24.     A method of preparing the cationic lipid of claim 23, the process comprising step (b) of:
        providing compound 3:
           0
              N
               N
              A Ph
            Ph Ph                             , and
        treating compound 3 with a strong acid to afford the cationic lipid of claim 23.

                                            -54
25.   The method of claim 24, further comprising step (a), prior to step (b), of combining
compounds 1 and 2:
        0
           OH
            N
            N
            APh
         Ph    Ph
           (1)        ; and              (2),
      to prepare said compound 3.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
