                                        ABSTRACT
             On the slot machine, a slot game including a base game and free games is
   caused to proceed on a display.   On the base game reel strips, on all of a plurality of
 5 reels, symbols whose each kind is the same, other than feature symbols and wild
   symbols, are arranged in succession.   On the free game reel strips, on all of a plurality
   of reels, symbols whose each kind is the same, other than the feature symbols and the
   wild symbols, are arranged in succession and in addition thereto, only in a case of top
   symbols whose payout multiplying factor is the highest, the top symbols whose number
10 is larger than a number of top symbols displayed on the base game reel strips are
   arranged in succession.
                                             67

                            1/78
                      FIG. 1
                BASE GAME
                 BASE GAME*
                 REEL STRIPS
                          i           ~S1
        THREE FEATURE SYMBOLS
         _HAVE BEEN STOPPED.LS
FREE GAMES,
 FREE GAME       SPINNING        S
 REEL STRIPS                             -S4
                             S3
                                       EIGHT FREE
              RETRIGGERED?             GAMES ARE
                                 YES     ADDED.
                      NO           S5
            IS THE NUMBER OF           NO
             FREE GAMES "0"?
                      YES

   [0001]    This application    is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2013228055, the originally filed specification of which is hereby incorporated herein by
   reference.    This application is related to Japanese Patent Application No. 2012-219781,
   filed on October 1, 2012, the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by
 5 reference in their entirety.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0002]    The present invention relates to a slot machine which includes a plurality of
   video reel strips.
10
                                         BACKGROUND
   [0003]    Conventionally, as a slot machine including a plurality of video reel strips, for
   example, there is a model which has the below-mentioned technology.                    In the
   technology which such a model has, since a game is subsequently initiated by the
15 occurrence of triggering, the plurality of video reel strips are upgraded.          When the
   plurality of video reel strips are upgraded, it becomes easy for a player to obtain a
   winning combination.
   [0004]   However, as a method of upgrading the plurality of video reel strips, for
20 example, a method in which the number of wild symbols which can be substituted with
   any symbols is increased is adopted.      Then, since it is easy for a player to recognize the
   increase in the number of the wild symbols, a player can soon perceive that the plurality
   of video reel strips have been upgraded.
25 [0005]   Accordingly, a new design for upgrading the plurality of video reel strips has
   been desired by players.
   [0006]   It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or limitations
   associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
30
                                            SUMMARY
   [0007]   In one embodiment, the present invention provides a slot machine comprising:
   a display for displaying a part of a plurality of video reel strips having different kinds of
   symbols arranged thereon; a value-addition mechanism by which a player is able to add
35 to the slot machine gaming media to be bet; an award payout mechanism by which
                                                   1

   gaming media can be paid out to the player or credited to current credits of the player as
   an outcome of a slot game; and a processor for causing the slot game including a base
   game and free games to proceed on the display; wherein the different kinds of symbols
   include: symbols of a first kind which result in winning when the number of the
 5 symbols of the first kind displayed on the display is greater than or equal to a
   predetermined number, and symbols of a second kind which result in winning when a
   combination of the symbols of the second kind arranged on an activated line matches a
   predetermined combination,
   wherein the symbols of the second kind include top symbols whose payout are the
10 highest, and the processor is programmed to execute, as a result of the player having bet
   gaming media, processes (A) to (D) described below.
   (A) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the first kind occurs, the
   slot game shifts to a free game.
   (B) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the second kind occurs,
15 a payout in accordance with a number of the arranged symbols is provided.
             (C) A process in which upon causing the base game to proceed, used are base
   game reel strips on which on all of the plurality of video reel strips, the symbols of the
   second kind are arranged in succession, and the symbols of the first kind are dispersed
   on a one-by-one basis.
20           (D) A process in which upon causing the free games to proceed, used are free
   game reel strips on which on all of the plurality of video reel strips, the symbols of the
   second kind are arranged in succession, the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a
   one-by-one basis, and a larger number of the top symbols than the number of the top
   symbols displayed on the base game reel strips are arranged in succession.         In other
25 words, when an award is obtained, only in the case of the top symbols by which a larger
   award (for example, a payout multiplying factor is the highest) than that obtained by the
   other symbols can be obtained, the free game reel strips on which the top symbols
   whose number is larger than the number of the top symbols displayed on the base game
   reel strips are arranged in succession are used.
30
   [0008]    The slot machine according to an embodiment of the present invention includes
   the above-described configuration, thereby causing the slot game including the base
   game and the free games to proceed on the display.        Upon causing the base game to
   proceed, the base game reel strips are used.     On the base game reel strips, on all of the
35 plurality of video reel strips, symbols whose each kind is the same are arranged in
                                                2

   succession.    Upon causing the free games to proceed, the free game reel strips are used.
   On the free game reel strips, on all of the plurality of video reel strips, the symbols
   whose each kind is the same are arranged in succession and when the award is obtained,
   only in the case of the top symbols by which the larger award (for example, the payout
 5 multiplying factor is the highest) than that obtained by the other symbols can be
   obtained, the top symbols whose number is larger than the number of the top symbols
   displayed on the base game reel strips are arranged in succession.
   [0009]    In other words, on the base game reel strips and the free game reel strips, a
10 mode in which on all of the plurality of video reel strips, symbols whose each kind is
   the same are arranged in succession is common to each other.       In addition, by the mode
   in which on the free game reel strips, on the video reel strips, symbols whose each kind
   is the same are arranged in succession and in addition thereto, only in the case of the top
   symbols whose payout multiplying factor is the highest, the top symbols whose number
15 is larger than the number of the top symbols displayed on the base game reel strips are
   arranged in succession, the plurality of video reel strips are upgraded.
   [0010]    In addition, an embodiment of the present invention, a slot machine below
   described is provided.    In the invention according thereto is characterized in that all of
20 the symbols other than wild symbols or special symbols which do not simply directly
   determine any payout are configured such that on all of the video reel strips, the
   symbols whose each kind is the same are arranged in succession.          The wild symbols
   generate a winning combination on a payline below described through the replacement
   with other symbols, however do not directly generate any award with themselves solely.
25 The feature symbols trigger a feature game, which is composed of a set of the plurality
   of free games (for example, eight free games) and is more advantageous for a player
   than base game.
   [0011]    In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a slot machine
30 comprising: a display for displaying a part of a plurality of video reel strips on which
   a plurality of kinds of symbols including wild symbols, feature symbols, and top
   symbols enabling a larger award to be obtained than an award obtained by a
   combination of other symbols when the award is obtained;                  a value-addition
   mechanism by which a player is able to add to the slot machine gaming media to be
35 bet; an award payout mechanism by which gaming media can be paid out to the
                                                3

   player or credited to current credits of the player as an outcome of a slot game; and a
   processor for causing the slot game to proceed on the display, the slot game
   including a base game and free games triggered when in the base game, a
   predetermined combination of the feature symbols is displayed on the display;
 5 wherein the different kinds of symbols include: symbols of a first kind which result in
   winning when the number of the symbols of the first kind displayed on the display is
   greater than or equal to a predetermined number, and symbols of a second kind which
   result in winning when a combination of the symbols of the second kind arranged on an
   activated line matches a predetermined combination,
10 wherein the symbols of the second kind include top symbols whose payout are the
   highest, and
   wherein the processor is programmed to execute, as a result of the player having bet
   gaming media, processes (A) to (D) described below.
             (A) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the first kind
15 occurs, the slot game shifts to a free game.
   (B) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the second kind occurs,
   a payout in accordance with a number of the arranged symbols is provided.
             (C) A process in which upon causing the base game to proceed, used are base
   game reel strips on which the symbols of the second kind are arranged in succession,
20 and the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a one-by-one basis.
             (D) A process in which upon causing the free games to proceeds, used are free
   game reel strips on which the symbols of the second kind are arranged in succession,
   the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a one-by-one basis, and a larger number of
   the top symbols than the number of the top symbols displayed on the base game reel
25 strips are arranged in succession.
   [0012]    As in this configuration, only the symbols contributing to only the payout,
   whose each kind is the same, are arranged in succession on all of the video reel strips,
   whereby it is likely that a player recognizes, when seeing the arrangement of the
30 symbols whose each kind is the same in succession, that an award will be easily
   obtained, as compared with the conventional configuration in which the symbols whose
   kind is the same are not arranged in succession and are scattered.       Moreover, even
   when a scrolling speed of the video reel strips is increased, it becomes easy to see
   kinds of scrolled symbols on the display.      In addition, regarding the special symbols
35 such as the wild symbols and the feature symbols other than the symbols contributing to
                                                4

   only the payout, it is configured that the special symbols whose kind is the same are not
   arranged in succession on any of the video reel strips.       Therefore, it is likely to avoid a
   display in which while the respective plurality of video reel strips are sequentially
   stopped on the display, only the wild symbols not simply directly generating any award
 5 are arranged in all the areas of the display (if it is configured that four or more wild
   symbols are arranged in succession, since in the present embodiment, the display has
   the 4 x 5 areas, all of the symbols on the display become the wild symbols) and to avoid
   a confusing display which misleads a player into thinking that a plurality of feature
   games would be concurrently triggered by seeing a plurality of the feature symbols
10 displayed on the display.
             Firstly, embodiments ofthe present invention are characterized in that by taking
   advantage of characteristics of the video reels, the reel strips are changed in the base
   game and the feature game and on the changed reel strips, the number of the plurality of
   the symbols which enable the high payout to be obtained and are arranged in succession
15 is increased so as to allow a player to visually recognize an increase in a winning
   probability.
             As the generally known slot machine, known is a slot machine which has: a
   first prize triggering a feature game which allows a payout to be obtained with a higher
   probability than in a base game by configuring that a number of feature symbols
20 displayed in symbol arrangement areas on a display which is formed in a matrix-like
   manner is a predetermined number or more; and a second prize providing a payout
   when in the base game, a predetermined winning combination is displayed on a line
   among a plurality of winning lines set over a plurality of reel strips.                Secondly,
   embodiments of the present invention are characterized in that on the above-mentioned
25 slot machine, even when a number of symbols displayed in the symbol display areas of
   the plurality of reel strips, while the plurality of reel strips are sequentially stopped and
   displayed on the display, is the predetermined number or more, in the situation where
   one of the reel strips is stopped and displayed and the remaining reel strips are still
   being varied and displayed, a layout of symbols arranged in succession whose number
30 allows neither of the first prize nor the second prize to be determinately displayed is
   adopted.
   [0013]    The same condition is, for example, that the processor (C) extracts the same
   payout table in the base game and the feature games based on a display result of a
35 plurality of video reel strips displayed on the display.      In addition, (D) upon executing
                                                  5

   the process of determining the payout based on a value which is predetermined by the
   payout table and by which an amount of one bet is multiplied and based on an amount
   of bets actually placed, a value, which is predetermined by the payout table and by
   which an amount of one bet is multiplied, associated with the top symbols is set to the
 5 highest, as compared with values associated with the other symbols.
             In addition, in the above-mentioned slot machine, the processor
             (E) causes a prize enabling shifting to a feature game to occur when a
   number of feature symbols displayed on the display reaches a predetermined number
   or more or when a total of the number of said feature symbols and a number of the
10 wild symbols reaches a predetermined number or more, and
             (F) causes a prize, when predetermined symbols other than the feature
   symbols are arranged, on the display, on a winning line which is set over a plurality
   of reels, based on a number of the arranged symbols to occur,
             on the base game reel strips defined to be used as the respective plurality of
15 video reel strips, the wild symbols and the feature symbols, included in symbols
   arranged on a single reel of the base game reel strips and displayed on the display,
   are arranged such that each of a total of the number of the feature symbols and a
   number of newly resulting feature symbols with which the wild symbols are replaced
   and the number of only the feature symbols not including the wild symbols is less
20 than a predetermined set succession number of other symbols whose kind is one kind
   and which are arranged in succession, and
             on the base game reel strips, symbols which differ from the feature symbols
   triggering the feature game and cause a prize to occur based on a kind of a
   combination of the symbols displayed on the winning line and whose number is the
25 predetermined set succession number or more are arranged in succession.
             Furthermore, in the slot machine, when the single reel of the base game reel
   strips has been stopped, the wild symbols and the feature symbols are arranged on
   the single reel of the base game reel strips such that
             when symbols displayed on the display include the wild symbols and the
30 feature symbols, the total of the feature symbols and the newly resulting feature
   symbols with which the wild symbols are replaced is less than the predetermined set
   succession number, and
             when the symbols displayed on the display do not include the wild symbols,
   a number of the feature symbols displayed on the display is less than the
35 predetermined set succession number.
                                                6

   [0014]    In the present specification, the feature game and the bonus game are the same
   in meaning.      In general, in some countries and manufactures, the feature game is
   referred to as the bonus game or vice versa.
 5
   [0015]    Hence, according to the present invention, provided is a slot machine which
   realizes a new design for upgrading a plurality of video reel strips.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10 [0016]    Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter described, by
   way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
             Fig. 1 is a diagram showing an outline of a game flow of a slot machine
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 2 is a diagram showing a function flow of the slot machine according to
15 the embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 3 is a diagram illustrating the game system including the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 4 is a diagram illustrating an overall structure of the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention
20           Fig. 5 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on peripheries of base game
   reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 6 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the base
   game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
25           Fig. 7 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the base
   game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
             Fig. 8 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the base
   game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
30 invention;
             Fig. 9 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on peripheries of free game
   reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 10 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the free
   game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
35 invention;
                                                  7

           Fig. 11 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the free
   game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
           Fig. 12 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the free
 5 game reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
           Fig. 13 is a block diagram illustrating an internal configuration of the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
           Fig. 14 shows a symbol combination table of the slot machine according to the
10 embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 15 shows a symbol combination table of the slot machine according to the
   embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 16 shows a flowchart of a main control process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
15         Fig. 17 shows a flowchart of a coin-in/start-check process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 18 shows a flowchart of a jackpot-related process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 19 is a flowchart of an insurance-related process in the slot machine
20 according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 20 shows a flowchart of a symbol drawing process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 21 shows a flowchart of a symbol display control process in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
25         Fig. 22 shows a flowchart of a number-of-payout determination process in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 23 shows a flowchart of an insurance check process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 24 shows a flowchart of a bonus game process in the slot machine
30 according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 25 shows a flowchart of an insurance selection process in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 26 is a diagram illustrating a screen display specification in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention during a base game;
35         Fig. 27 is a diagram illustrating a HELP screen display specification in the slot
                                               8

   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention during the base game;
            Fig. 28 is a diagram illustrating a flow of WIN presentation effects in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 29 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the WIN presentation effects in the
 5 slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 30 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the WIN presentation effects in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 31 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the WIN presentation effects in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
10          Fig. 32 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the WIN presentation effects in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 33 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the WIN presentation effects in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 34A is a diagram illustrating a WIN signboard in the slot machine
15 according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 34B is a diagram illustrating a WIN signboard in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 34C is a diagram illustrating a WIN signboard in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
20          Fig. 35 is a diagram explaining sound effects upon the appearance of three
   feature symbols in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 36 is a diagram explaining the sound effects upon the appearance of three
   feature symbols in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
25 invention;
            Fig. 37 is a diagram explaining the sound effects upon the appearance of three
   feature symbols in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 38A is a diagram illustrating a TOTAL WIN signboard after free games in
30 the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 38B is a diagram illustrating a TOTAL WIN signboard after free games in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 38C is a diagram illustrating a TOTAL WIN signboard after free games in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
35          Fig. 39 is a diagram illustrating presentation effects upon the introduction of
                                                 9

   the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 40 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the introduction
   of the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
 5 invention;
            Fig. 41 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the introduction
   of the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 42 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the introduction
10 of the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 43 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the introduction
   of the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
15          Fig. 44 is a diagram illustrating presentation effects upon finishing the free
   games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 45 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon finishing the free
   games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 46 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon finishing the free
20 games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 47 is a diagram illustrating presentation effects upon the retriggering in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 48 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the retriggering in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
25          Fig. 49 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the retriggering in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 50 is a diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the retriggering in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 51 is a diagram illustrating a screen during the free games in the slot
30 machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 52 is a diagram explaining appeal rewriting upon starting spinning during
   the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 53 is a diagram explaining the appeal rewriting upon starting the spinning
35 during the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
                                                 10

   invention;
            Fig. 54 is a diagram explaining the appeal rewriting upon starting the spinning
   during the free games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention;
 5          Fig. 55 is a diagram explaining a button look-ahead specification in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 56 is a diagram explaining a WIN meter information display in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 57 is a diagram illustrating one example of a control panel specification in
10 the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 58 is a diagram explaining a GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 59 is a diagram explaining a GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
15          Fig. 60 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 61 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 62 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
20 according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 63 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 64 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
25          Fig. 65 is a diagram explaining RESIDUAL GAMBLE in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention:
            Fig. 66 is a diagram explaining the RESIDUAL GAMBLE in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 67 is a diagram explaining the RESIDUAL GAMBLE in the slot machine
30 according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 68 is a diagram illustrating a system font display area in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 69 is a diagram explaining a HELP specification in the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
35          Fig. 70 is a diagram explaining the HELP specification in the slot machine
                                                11

   according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 71A is a diagram explaining the placement of screen touch buttons in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 71B is a diagram explaining the placement of screen touch buttons in the
 5 slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 71C is a diagram explaining the placement of screen touch buttons in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 71D is a diagram explaining the placement of screen touch buttons in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
10          Fig. 72A is a diagram explaining the placement of the screen touch buttons in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 72B is a diagram explaining the placement of the screen touch buttons in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 72C is a diagram explaining the placement of the screen touch buttons in
15 the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 72D is a diagram explaining the placement of the screen touch buttons in
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 73 is a diagram explaining the placement of the screen touch buttons in the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
20          Fig. 74 is a diagram explaining a sound volume switch touch button in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 75 is a diagram explaining an AUDIT national flag switch setting
   specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 76 is a diagram explaining the AUDIT national flag switch setting
25 specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 77 is a diagram explaining the AUDIT national flag switch setting
   specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 78 is a diagram explaining the AUDIT national flag switch setting
   specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
30
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0017]    [Outline of an embodiment of the Present Invention]
            Hereinafter, an embodiment of the present invention will be described with
   reference to the accompanying drawings.      Fig. 1 is a diagram showing an outline of a
35 game flow of a slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention. As
                                               12

   shown in Fig. 1, in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention, a slot game including a base game and free games proceeds.
   [0018]     The slot game is of a line-type.   On a display, 50 paylines are set on a screen
 5 having a configuration consisting of 4 columns x 5 rows.           Further, in the slot game,
   video reels are used.    The video reels are composed of five reels.        In other words, a
   first reel, a second reel, a third reel, a fourth reel, and a fifth reel constitute the video
   reels.
10 [0019]    Feature symbols are present on the second reel, the third reel, and the fourth
   reel.   Wild symbols are present on the second reel, the third reel, the fourth reel, and
   the fifth reel.  Top symbols and the other symbols are present on all of the reels.       The
   top symbols and the other symbols are arranged in succession.           The top symbols are
   symbols, whose multiplying factor used for determining a payout is the highest.
15
   [0020]    During the base game, base game reel strips are used on the respective video
   reels.   During the free games, free game reel strips are used on the respective video
   reels.   On the free game reel strips, the larger number of top symbols are arranged in
   succession on the respective reels, than in the base game.
20
   [0021]    In the base game, when three feature symbols have appeared (step Si), eight
   free games can be obtained.
   [0022]    During the free games, after spinning (step S2), when three feature symbols
25 have appeared again (step S3: YES), retriggering is conducted.          Upon the occurrence
   of the retriggering, eight free games are added (step S4).      Thereafter, the game returns
   to the above-mentioned step S2 and the spinning is conducted again.           The number of
   times at which the retriggering is conducted has no limit.       Accordingly, each time the
   retriggering occurs, eight free games are added (step S4).
30
   [0023]    In contrast to this, when the three feature symbols have not appeared again
   (step S3: NO), it is determined whether or not the remaining number of times at which
   the free game is conducted is zero (step S5).      When the remaining number of times at
   which the free game is conducted is not zero (step S5: NO), the game returns to the
35 above-mentioned step S2 and the free games are continued.           On the other hand, when
                                                 13

   the remaining number of times at which the free game is conducted is zero (step S5:
   YES), the game returns to the base game.
   [0024]    The slot machine has the above-described configuration, thereby causing the
 5 slot game including the base game and the free games to proceed on the display.
   While the base game is proceeding, the base game reel strips are used.         On the base
   game reel strips, on all of the five reels, symbols whose each kind is the same, other
   than the feature symbols and the wild symbols, are arranged in succession.
10 [0025]    While each of the free games is proceeding, the free game reel strips are used.
   On the free game reel strips, on all of the five reels, symbols whose each kind is the
   same, other than the feature symbols and the wild symbols, are arranged in succession
   and in addition thereto, only in the case of the top symbols whose payout multiplying
   factor is the highest, the top symbols whose number is larger than the number of top
15 symbols displayed on the base game reel strips are arranged in succession.
   [0026]    In other words, in the base game reel strips and the free game reel strips, the
   mode in which on all of the five reels, symbols whose each kind is the same, other than
   the feature symbols and the wild symbols, are arranged in succession is common to each
20 other.   In addition, by the mode in which on the free game reel strips, on all of the five
   reels, symbols whose each kind is the same, other than the feature symbols and the wild
   symbols, are arranged in succession and in addition thereto, only in the case of the top
   symbols whose payout multiplying factor is the highest, the top symbols whose number
   is larger than that of those displayed on the base game reel strips are arranged in
25 succession, the plurality of video reel strips are upgraded.
   [0027]    [Explanation of a Function Flow]
             With reference to Fig. 2, a basic function of the slot machine according to the
   embodiment of the present invention will be described.       Fig. 2 is a diagram showing a
30 function flow of the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0028]    <Coin-in/Start-check>
             First, the slot machine checks whether or not any BET button is pressed by a
   player and subsequently checks whether or not a SPIN button is pressed by a player.
35
                                                 14

   [0029]    <Determination of Symbols>
             Next, when the SPIN button is pressed by a player, the slot machine extracts
   random number values for determining symbols and determines symbols to be
   displayed to a player upon stopping of scrolling of symbol columns in accordance with
 5 the plurality of video reels displayed on the display.
   [0030]    <Display of Symbols>
             Next, the slot machine starts the scrolling of the symbol columns of the
   respective video reels and stops the scrolling so as to display the determined symbols to
10 a player.
   [0031]    <Winning Determination>
             Next, upon stopping the scrolling of the symbol columns of the respective
   video reels, the slot machine determines whether or not a combination of the symbols
15 displayed to a player is associated with a winning combination.
   [0032]    <Paying-out>
             Next, when the combination of the symbols displayed to a player is the
   winning combination, the slot machine awards a benefit in accordance with a kind of
20 the combination of these symbols to a player.       For example, when a combination of
   symbols related to a payout of coins is displayed, the slot machine pays out, to a player,
   coins whose number is in accordance with the combination of the symbols.
   [0033]    In addition, when a combination of symbols related to triggering of a bonus
25 game is displayed, the slot machine initiates the bonus game.       In the embodiment of
   the present invention, as the bonus game, a game (free games) in which a drawing for
   determining the above-mentioned symbols to be stopped is conducted without
   consuming coins at a predetermined number of times is conducted.
30 [0034]    In addition, when a combination of symbols related to triggering of a jackpot is
   displayed, the slot machine pays out coins corresponding to a jackpot amount to a player.
   The jackpot functions such that portions of coins consumed by a player on respective
   slot machines are accumulated as jackpot amounts and, when the triggering of a jackpot
   has been achieved on any slot machine, coins corresponding to the accumulated jackpot
35 amounts are paid out to such a slot machine.     The slot machine calculates an amount to
                                                15

   be accumulated as the jackpot amount each time one game is played (cumulative
   amount) and transmits the calculated amount to an external control apparatus.        The
   external control apparatus accumulates cumulative amounts transmitted from the
   respective slot machines as the jackpot amounts.
 5
   [0035]    In addition, in the slot machine, besides the above-mentioned benefit, benefits
   such as a mystery bonus and insurance are provided.      The mystery bonus is to pay out
   coins corresponding to a predetermined amount upon the occurrence of winning in a
   dedicated drawing.       When the SPIN button is pressed, the slot machine extracts
10 random number values for the mystery bonus and determines, through the drawing,
   whether or not the triggering of the mystery bonus is to be achieved.
   [0036]    The insurance is a function provided for the purpose of helping a player who is
   in the situation where any bonus game is not conducted for a long period of time.      In
15 the embodiment of the present invention, whether or not the insurance is made active
   can be arbitrarily selected by a player.     In exchange for a predetermined insurance
   purchase amount, the insurance is made active. When the insurance is made active,
   the slot machine starts counting of the number of times of games played. When
   without a large amount being paid out by the bonus game and the like, the counted
20 number of times of the games played reaches a predetermined number of times, the slot
   machine pays out coins corresponding to an amount which has been set for the
   insurance.
   [0037] <Determination of Presentation Effects>
25           The slot machine performs presentation effects through displaying of images
   using the display, outputting of light using a lamp, and outputting of sound using a
   loudspeaker.    The slot machine extracts random number values for the presentation
   effects and based on symbols, determined through a drawing, and the like, determines
   contents of the presentation effects.
30
   [0038]    [The Whole of Game System]
             The basic function of the slot machine is as described above.       Next, with
   reference to Fig. 3, a game system including the slot machines will be described.    Fig.
   3 is a diagram illustrating the game system including the slot machines according to the
35 embodiment of the present invention.
                                                16

   [0039]    The game system 300 includes: a plurality of slot machines 1 and an external
   control apparatus 200 connected to the respective slot machines 1 via a communication
   line 301.
 5
   [0040]    The external control apparatus 200 controls the plurality of slot machines 1.
   In the embodiment of the present invention, the external control apparatus 200 is the
   so-called hall server installed in a gaming house having the plurality of slot machines 1.
   Each of the slot machines 1 is provided with a unique identification number, and the
10 external control apparatus 200 identifies a source of data transmitted from each of the
   slot machines 1 using each of the identification numbers.        In addition, also when data
   is transmitted from the external control apparatus 200 to each of the slot machines 1,
   each of the identification numbers is used to designate a destination.
15 [0041]    The game system 300 may be structured in one gaming house such as a casino
   or may be structured among a plurality of gaming houses.         In addition, when the game
   system 300 is structured in one gaming house, the game system 300 may be structured
   in each floor or section of the gaming house.        The communication line 301 may be
   either wired or wireless, and a dedicated line, a switched line, or the like can be
20 employed as the communication line.
   [0042]    [Overall Structure of Slot Machine]
             The game system according to the embodiment of the present invention is as
   described above.     Next, with reference to Fig. 4, an overall structure of the slot
25 machine 1 will be described.     Fig. 4 is a drawing illustrating the overall structure of the
   slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0043]    On the slot machine 1, as gaming media, coins, bills, or electronic valuable
   information corresponding the coins or the bills is used.               In addition, in the
30 embodiment of the present invention, the later-described ticket having a bar code is also
   used.    The gaming media are not limited thereto, and for example, medals, tokens, and
   electronic money may be adopted.
   [0044]    The slot machine 1 includes: a cabinet 11; a top box 12 installed on an upper
35 side of the cabinet 11; and a main door 13 provided on a front face of the cabinet 11.
                                                 17

   [0045]    In the central portion of the main door 13, a lower side image display panel 141
   is provided.     The lower side image display panel 141 is formed of a liquid crystal panel,
   constituting the display.    The lower side image display panel 141 has a symbol display
 5 area 4.    In the symbol display area 4, five video reels 3 (3a, 3b, 3c, 3d, and 3e) are
   displayed.     In the embodiment of the present invention, the video reels are to represent,
   with images, motions of rotation and stoppage of mechanical reels whose peripheries
   have a plurality of symbols depicted thereon.        Each of respective symbol columns
   composed of a predetermined plurality of symbols is assigned to each of the video reels
10 3 (refer to Fig. 5 later described).
   [0046]    In the symbol display area 4, the respective symbol columns assigned to the
   respective video reels 3 are each scrolled and after a predetermined lapse of time, are
   stopped.     As a result, a part of each of the respective symbol columns (in the
15 embodiment of the present invention, four symbols) are displayed to a player.         In the
   symbol display area 4, on each of the video reels 3, each one symbol is displayed in
   each of four areas in an upper row, a middle upper row, a middle lower row, and a lower
   row.    In other words, in the symbol display area 4, 20 symbols, 4 symbols/column x 5
   symbols/row, are displayed.
20
   [0047]    In the embodiment of the present invention, any of the above-mentioned four
   areas is selected in accordance with each of the respective video reels 3, and the
   respective selected areas are connected to form a line, which is defined as a payline.     A
   specific form of the payline can be arbitrarily adopted.    However, for example, besides
25 a linear line formed by connecting the respective areas in the middle upper row in
   accordance with the respective video reels 3, a V-shaped line, a bent-shape line, and the
   like can be adopted.       In addition, as to the number of paylines, although in the
   embodiment of the present invention, the number of paylines are 50, as the number of
   paylines, for example, 30 and the like can be arbitrarily adopted.
30
   [0048]    In addition, in the lower side image display panel 141, a touch panel 114 is
   built-in.   A player can input a variety of instructions by touching the lower side image
   display panel 141.
35 [0049]    Below the lower side image display panel 141, a variety of buttons placed on a
                                                 18

   control panel 30 and a variety of devices to be operated by a player are located.
   [0050]     A SPIN button 31 is used upon starting the scrolling of the symbol columns of
   the respective video reels 3.   A CHANGE button 32 is used upon requesting exchange
 5 from a gaming house employee.          A CASHOUT button 33 is used upon paying out
   coins deposited inside the slot machine 1 to a coin tray 15.
   [0051]    A 1-BET button 34 and a MAX BET button 35 are to determine the number of
   coins (hereinafter, referred to as the number of BETs) used in gaming from coins
10 deposited inside the slot machine 1.      The 1-BET button 34 is used upon determining
   the above-mentioned number of BETs in a unit of one coin.          The MAX BET button 35
   is used upon selecting a predefined upper limit number as the above-mentioned number
   of BETs.
15 [0052]    A coin receiving slot 36 is provided to receive coins.      A bill validator 115 is
   provided to receive bills.    A bill validator 115 identifies whether or not each bill is
   legitimate and receives legitimate bills into the cabinet 11.    The bill validator 115 may
   be configured to be capable of reading the later-described ticket having a bar code 175.
20 [0053]    On a front face of the top box 12, an upper side image display panel 131 is
   provided.     The upper side image display panel 131 is composed of a liquid crystal
   panel, constituting the display.     On the upper side image display panel 131, images
   related to the presentation effects and images which indicate introduction of contents of
   games and explanation of rules of the games are displayed.        In addition, on the top box
25  12, a loudspeaker 112 and a lamp 111 are provided.            On the slot machine 1, the
   presentation effects are conducted by displaying images, outputting sound, and
   outputting light.
   [0054]    Below the upper side image display panel 131, a ticket printer 171, a card slot
30  176, a data indicator 174, and a keypad 173 are provided.
   [0055]    The ticket printer 171 is to print onto a ticket a bar code in which data such as
   the number of credit, time and date, and an identification number of a slot machine 1 is
   coded and output the ticket as a ticket having a bar code 175.        A player can cause the
35 slot machine to read out the ticket having a bar code 175 to play a game and can
                                                 19

   exchange the ticket having a bar code 175 for bills and the like at a predetermined place
   of a gaming house (for example, a cashier within a casino),
   [0056]    The card slot 176 is to insert a card having predetermined data stored thereon
 5 thereinto.    For example, a card has stored thereon data for identifying a player and data
   related to a history of games played by a player.    On the card inserted into the card slot
    176, data reading and data writing are conducted by the later-described card reader 172.
   The card may have data corresponding to coins, bills, or a credit stored thereon.
10 [0057]    The data indicator 174 is composed of a fluorescent display, an LED, or the
   like and is to display, for example, data read by the card reader 172 and data inputted by
   a player via the keypad 173.      The keypad 173 is to input instructions and data related
   to issuance of a ticket and the like.
15 [0058]    [Symbol Columns of Video Reels]
             The overall structure of the slot machine 1 is as described above.     Next, with
   reference to Fig. 5 to Fig. 12, a configuration of the symbol columns which the video
   reels 3 of the slot machine 1 have will be described.      Each of Fig. 5 to Fig. 8 shows
   arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the base game reel strips in the
20 slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.        Each of Fig. 9 to
   Fig. 12 shows arrangements of symbols depicted on the peripheries of the free game
   reel strips in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0059] As shown in Fig. 5 to Fig. 8, to a first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the base game
25 reel strips, symbol columns composed of 84 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00"
   to "83" are assigned.     To a second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b of the base game reel strips,
   symbol columns composed of 131 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "130"
   are assigned.     To a third video reel ("Reel 3") 3c of the base game reel strips, symbol
   columns composed of 130 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "129" are
30 assigned.     To a fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d of the base game reel strips, symbol
   columns composed of 133 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "132" are
   assigned.     To a fifth video reel ("Reel 5") 3e of the base game reel strips, symbol
   columns composed of 127 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "126" are
   assigned.
35
                                                20

   [0060]    As shown in Fig. 9 to Fig. 12, to a first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the free
   game reel strips, symbol columns composed of 92 symbols corresponding to code Nos.
   "00" to "91" are assigned.     To a second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b of the free game reel
   strips, symbol columns composed of 139 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to
 5 "138" are assigned.     To a third video reel ("Reel 3") 3c of the free game reel strips,
   symbol columns composed of 138 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "137"
   are assigned.    To a fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d of the free game reel strips, symbol
   columns composed of 141 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "140" are
   assigned.    To a fifth video reel ("Reel 5") 3e of the free game reel strips, symbol
10 columns composed of 135 symbols corresponding to code Nos. "00" to "134" are
   assigned.
   Among symbols, there are symbols of a first kind (the so-called scatter symbols)
   which may result in winning when a number of the symbols of the first kind
   displayed on the display is greater than or equal to a predetermined number; and
15 symbols of a second kind which may result in winning when a combination of the
   symbols of the second kind arranged on an activated line is a predetermined
   combination.       When the winning by the symbols of the first kind occurs, the
   game shifts to a feature game.          In other words, at the time point when the
   symbols of the first kind whose number is greater than or equal to the
20 predetermined number are displayed on the display, the winning is determined
   and the game shifts to the feature game (free games).          When the winning by the
   symbols of the second kind occurs, a payout in accordance with a number of the
   arranged symbols is provided.
             In a case where the symbols of the first kind whose number is greater
25 than or equal to the number which results in the winning are arranged in
   succession on one of the reels, when the reels are stopped (when the symbols are
   rearranged), a portion where the symbols of the first kind are arranged in
   succession is displayed and the winning thereby occurs only on that one reel.
   Accordingly, when the winning is determined despite the other reels being
30 scrolling, it is likely that a player loses interest in the game.        Therefore, with
   respect to     the  symbols of the       first kind,   it is necessary to       avoid the
   above-mentioned situation.
             On the other hand, with respect of the symbols of the second kind,
   payouts are different from one another depending on the numbers of the displayed
35 symbols.     For example, when three symbols of the second kind are displayed, a
                                                21

   payout corresponding to the three symbols is provided, and when five symbols of
   the second kind are displayed, a payout corresponding to the five symbols is
   provided.     In this case, since a payout cannot be determined until the scrolling of
   all of the reels is finished, a player does not lose interest in the game.
 5           Therefore, it is necessary to arrange the symbols of the first kind in
   succession so as to avoid the winning by the symbols of the first kind.                 For
   example, the symbols of the second kind are arranged such that a number of the
   symbols of the second kind arranged in succession on one of the reels is greater
   than or equal to a number of the symbols of the first kind arranged in succession
10 on the one of the reels.
   [0061]    As kinds of symbols, "WILD", "GOLD", "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE",
   "BLACK", "ACE", "KING", "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", "NINE", and "FEATURE"
   are provided.
15           The symbol "FEATURE" is an example of the the above discribed first
   kind    symbol.      Each of the symbols "GOLD",           "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE",
   "BLACK", "ACE", "KING", "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE" is an example
   of the above discribed second kind symbol.
20 [0062]    The symbol "FEATURE" is present on the second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b, the
   third video reel ("Reel 3") 3c, and the fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d.       The symbol
   "WILD" is present on the second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b, the third video reel ("Reel
   3") 3c, the fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d, and the fifth video reel ("Reel 5") 3e.  Each
   of the symbols "GOLD", "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "KING",
25 "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE" is present on the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a,
   the second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b, the third video reel ("Reel 3") 3c, the fourth video
   reel ("Reel 4") 3d, and the fifth video reel ("Reel 5") 3e.    In other words, each of the
   symbols "GOLD",         "BLUE", "RED",       "WHITE",      "BLACK", "ACE", "KING",
   "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE" is present on all of the video reels 3 a to 3e.
30 The symbols "GOLD", "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "''KING",
   "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE" are arranged in succession.                The symbols
   "GOLD" are the top symbols whose payout multiplying factor used for determining a
   payout is the highest, as described later.    On the respective video reels, the symbols
   "FEATURE" are dispersed on a one-by-one basis and are allocated so as to be spaced at
35 intervals of four symbols or more as a number of displayed symbols.         In addition, on
                                               22

   the respective video reels, the symbols "WILD" are dispersed on a one-by-one basis and
   are allocated so as to be spaced at intervals of four symbols or more as a number of
   displayed symbols.      In this respect, the base game reel strips and the free game reel
   strips are the same as each other.
 5           On the base game reel strips, the wild symbols and the feature symbols,
   included in symbols placed on a single reel of the base game reel strips and
   displayed on the display, are arranged such that each of a total of the number of the
   feature symbols and a number of newly resulting feature symbols with which the
   wild symbols are replaced and the number of only the feature symbols not including
10 the wild symbols is less than a predetermined set succession number of other
   symbols whose kind is one kind and which are arranged in succession.
             On the base game reel strips, symbols which differ from the feature symbols
   triggering a feature game and cause a prize to occur based on a combination of the
   symbols displayed on the winning line and whose number is the predetermined set
15 succession number or more are arranged.
   [0063]    Further, as shown in Fig. 5 to Fig. 12, on the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of
   the free game reel strips, a large number of top symbols "GOLD" are arranged in
   succession, as compared with the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the base game reel
20 strips.   This respect is the same as on the second video reel ("Reel 2") 3b, the third
   video reel ("Reel 3") 3c, the fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d, and the fifth video reel
   ("Reel 5") 3e of the free game reel strips.
   [0064]    [Configuration of Circuitry included in Slot Machine]
25           The configuration of the symbol columns which the video reels 3 of the slot
   machine 1 have is as described above.       Next, with reference to Fig. 13, a configuration
   of circuitry which the slot machine 1 includes will be described.        Fig. 13 is a block
   diagram illustrating an internal configuration of the slot machine according to the
   embodiment of the present invention.
30
   [0065]    A gaming board 50 includes: a CPU 51, a ROM 52, and a boot ROM 53, which
   are connected to one another by an internal bus; a card slot 55 associated with a memory
   card 54; and an IC socket 57 associated with a GAL (Generic Array Logic) 56.
35 [0066]    The memory card 54 is composed of a nonvolatile memory and has a game
                                                 23

   program and a game system program stored thereon.          The game program includes a
   program related to game proceeding, a drawing program, and a program for executing
   presentation effects by images and sounds (for example, refer to Fig. 16 to Fig. 25
   described later).   In addition, the above-mentioned game program includes data (refer
 5 to Fig. 5 to Fig. 12) which defines the configuration of the symbol columns assigned to
   the respective video reels 3.
   [0067]    The drawing program is to determine symbols on the respective video reels 3,
   which are scheduled to be stopped, by a drawing.       The data pertinent to the symbols
10 scheduled to be stopped is data for determining four symbols displayed in the symbol
   display area 4 from the plurality of symbols constituting each of the symbol columns.
   The slot machine 1 according to the embodiment of the present invention determines
   symbols displayed in predetermined areas (for example, the areas in the upper row)
   among the four areas associated with each of the video reels 3 as the symbols scheduled
15 to be stopped.
   [0068]    The above-mentioned drawing program includes symbol determination data.
   The symbol determination data is to define random number values in accordance with
   each of the video reels 3 such that each of the plurality of symbols constituting each of
20 the symbol columns is determined with an equal probability.     For example, in a case of
   the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the base game reel strips, by using the symbol
   determination data, random number values are determined such that each of the 84
   symbols (code Nos. "00" to "83") is determined with the equal probability (specifically,
    1/84).   However, since the numbers of the respective kinds of the symbols included in
25 the 84 symbols are different, probabilities with which the respective kinds of the
   symbols are determined are different from one another (in other words, weights are
   yielded).    For example, with reference to Fig. 5 to Fig. 8, the number of the symbols
   "GOLD" included in the symbol column of the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the base
   game reel strips is 12 whereas the number of the symbols "ACE" included in the
30 symbol column of the first video reel ("Reel 1") 3a of the base game reel strips is 4.
   Accordingly, the former is determined with a probability of "12/84" whereas the latter is
   determined with a probability of "4/84".
   [0069]    In the embodiment of the present invention, the data is defined such that the
35 numbers of the kinds of the symbols constituting the respective symbol columns are
                                               24

   different from one another in accordance with each of the video reels 3.   However, the
   numbers of the kinds of the symbols constituting the respective symbol columns may be
   the same as one another.    For example, each of all of the symbol columns of the video
   reels 3a to 3e of the base game reel strips and the free game reel strips may be
 5 configured so as to be formed of 22 symbols.     Thus, a degree of freedom upon setting
   probabilities with which the respective kinds of symbols are determined in accordance
   with each of the video reels 3 is increased.
   [0070] In addition, the card slot 55 is configured such that the memory card 54 can be
10 inserted thereto and pulled out therefrom and is connected to a mother board 70 by an
   IDE bus.
   [0071]    The GAL 56 is a kind of a PLD (Programmable Logic Device) having a fixed
   OR array architecture.   The GAL 56 includes a plurality of input ports and output ports
15 and when each of the input ports has received a predetermined input, corresponding data
   is outputted from each of the output ports.
   [0072] In addition, the IC socket 57 is configured such that the GAL 56 is detachable
   and is connected to the mother board 70 by a PCI bus.          The memory card 54 is
20 replaced with a memory card having another program written thereon or the program
   written on the memory card 54 is replaced with another program, thereby allowing the
   contents of a game played on each of the slot machines 1 to be changed.
   [0073]    The CPU 51, the ROM 52, and the boot ROM 53 connected to one another by
25 the internal bus are connected to the mother board 70 by the PCI bus.      The PCI bus
   transmits signals between the mother board 70 and the gaming board 50 and supplies
   power from the mother board 70 to the gaming board 50.
   [0074]    The ROM 52 has an authentication program stored thereon.       The boot ROM
30 53 has stored thereon an auxiliary authentication program, a program (boot code) for
   allowing the CPU 51 to activate the auxiliary authentication program, and the like.
   The authentication program is a program (tampering check program) for authenticating
   the game program and the game system program.              The auxiliary authentication
   program is a program for authenticating the above-mentioned authentication program.
35 The authentication program and the auxiliary authentication program are written along a
                                                25

   procedure (authentication procedure) for authenticating that a targeted program is not
   tampered.
   [0075]    The mother board 70 includes: a main CPU 71, a ROM 72, a RAM 73, and a
 5 communication interface 82.
   [0076]    The ROM 72 is composed of a memory device such as a flash memory and has
   stored thereon a program such as a BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) executed by the
   main CPU 71 and permanent data.         When the BIOS is executed by the main CPU 71,
10 an initialization process for predetermined peripheral devices is conducted.    In addition,
   via the gaming board 50, a process for loading the game program and the game system
   program stored on the memory card 54 is started.
   [0077]    The RAM 73 has stored thereon data and programs used when the main CPU
15 71 operates.     For example, when the process for loading the above-described game
   program and game system program and the authentication program is conducted, these
   can be stored thereon.     In addition, the RAM 73 is provided with working areas for
   executing each of the above-mentioned programs.        For example, provided are an area
   for storing the number of games, the number of BETs, the number of payouts, the
20 number of credits, and the like and an area for storing symbols (code Nos.) determined
   by a drawing.
   [0078]    A communication interface 82 is to communicate with the external control
   apparatus 200 such as a server via the communication line 301.      In addition, connected
25 to the mother board 70 by USBs are the later-described door PCB (Printed Circuit
   Board) 90 and main body PCB 110.          Further, connected to the mother board 70 is a
   power source unit 81.     When power is supplied from the power source unit 81 to the
   mother board 70, the main CPU 71 of the mother board 70 is activated and the power is
   supplied to the gaming board 50 via the PCI bus, thereby activating the CPU 51.
30
   [0079]    Connected to the door PCB 90 and the main body PCB 110 are input devices
   such as switches and sensors; and peripheral devices whose operations are controlled by
   the main CPU 71.      Connected to the door PCB 90 are a control panel 30, a reverter 91,
   a coin counter 92C, and a cold-cathode tube 93.
35
                                                26

   [0080]    The control panel 30 is provided with a SPIN switch 31S, a CHANGE switch
   32S, a CASHOUT switch 33S, a 1-BET switch 34S, and a MAX BET switch 35S so as
   to correspond to the above-described respective buttons.       Each of the switches detects
   that each of the corresponding buttons is pressed by a player and outputs a signal to the
 5 main CPU 71.
   [0081]   A coin counter 92C makes a selection to determine whether or not a material, a
   shape, and the like of each of the coins inputted into the coin receiving slot 36 are
   appropriate.    Upon detecting each appropriate coin, the coin counter 92C outputs a
10 signal to the main CPU 71.     In addition, inappropriate coins are discharged from a coin
   payout opening 15A.
   [0082]    The reverter 91 operates based on a control signal outputted from the main
   CPU 71 and distributes the appropriate coins selected by the coin counter 92C to a
15 hopper 113 or a cashbox (not shown).      When the hopper 113 is not filled with the coins,
   the appropriate coins are distributed to the hopper 113 and when the hopper 113 is filled
   with the coins, the appropriate coins are distributed to the cashbox.
   [0083]   A cold-cathode tube 93 functions as a backlight installed on a side of back
20 surfaces of the upper side image display panel 131 and the lower side image display
   panel 141 and lights up based on a control signal outputted from the main CPU 71.
   [0084]    Connected to the main body PCB 110 are the lamp 111, the loudspeaker 112,
   the hopper 113, a coin detection part 113S, the touch panel 114, the bill validator 115, a
25 graphic board 130, the ticket printer 171, the card reader 172, a key switch 173S, and
   the data indicator 174.
   [0085]    The lamp 111 lights up based on a control signal outputted from the main CPU
   71.   The loudspeaker 112 outputs sound such as BGM based on a control signal
30 outputted from the main CPU 71.
   [0086]    The hopper 113 operates based on a control signal outputted from the main
   CPU 71 and pays out coins, whose payout number is designated, from the coin payout
   opening 15A to the coin tray 15.        The coin detection part 113S detects the coins
35 provided by the hopper 113 and outputs a signal to the main CPU 71.
                                                27

   [0087]    The touch panel 114 detects a position touched by a finger or the like of a
   player on the lower side image display panel and outputs a signal corresponding to the
   detected position to the main CPU 71.        The bill validator 115, upon accepting each
 5 legitimate bill, outputs a signal in accordance with an amount of the accepted bill to the
   main CPU 71.
   [0088]    The graphic board 130 controls a display of images, performed by each of the
   upper side image display panel 131 and the lower image display panel 141, based on a
10 control signal outputted from the main CPU 71.         In the symbol display area 4 of the
   lower side image display panel 141, the five video reels 3 are displayed, and motions of
   the scrolling and the stoppage of the symbol columns which the respective video reels 3
   have are displayed.     The graphic board 130 includes a VDP for generating image data,
   a video RAM for storing the image data generated by the VDP, and the like.
15
   [0089]    In addition, the graphic board 130 includes the VDP (Video Display Processor)
   for generating image data based on a control signal outputted from the main CPU 71,
   the video RAM for temporarily storing the image data generated by the VDP, and the
   like.   The image data used when the image data is generated by the VDP is included in
20 the game program read out from the memory card 54 and stored in the RAM 73.
   [0090]    The ticket printer 171 prints onto a ticket a bar code, in which data such as the
   number of credits stored on the RAM 73, time and date, and an identification number of
   a slot machine 1 is coded, based on a control signal outputted from the main CPU 71
25 and outputs the ticket as a ticket having a bar code 175.
   [0091]    The card reader 172 reads out data stored on a card inserted into the card slot
    176, transmits the data to the main CPU 71, and writes the data based on a control
   signal from the main CPU 71.
30
   [0092]    The key switch 173S is provided on the keypad 173 and, when the keypad 173
   is operated by a player, outputs a predetermined signal to the main CPU 71.
   [0093]    The data indicator 174 displays the data read out by the card reader 172 and the
35 data inputted by a player via the keypad 173, based on a control signal outputted from
                                                28

   the main CPU 71.
   [0094]     [Configuration of Symbol Combination Table]
              The configuration of the circuitry of the slot machine 1 is as described above.
 5 Next, with reference to Fig. 14 and Fig. 15, symbol combination tables will be
   described.     Fig. 14 and Fig. 15 show symbol combination tables of the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0095]     The symbol combination tables define symbol combinations and the numbers
10 of payouts associated with winning.      On the slot machine 1, when the scrolling of the
   symbol columns of the respective video reels 3 is stopped and a combination of symbols
   displayed on a payline matches any combination of symbols defined in the symbol
   combination tables, winning occurs.        In accordance with the winning, a player is
   provided with a benefit such as a payout of coins and initiation of a bonus game.
15 When a combination of symbols displayed on a payline does not match any of the
   combinations of symbols defined in the symbol combination tables, no winning occurs
   (that is, losing occurs).
   [0096]     Basically, with respect to the respective kinds of the symbols "GOLD",
20 "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "KING", "QUEEN", "JACK",
   "TEN", and "NINE", also when three, four, or five symbols of one kind among the
   above-mentioned kinds are displayed on a payline by the video reels 3, winning occurs.
   In addition, with respect to the kinds of the symbols "GOLD", "BLUE", "RED",
   "WHITE", and "BLACK", two symbols of one kind among the above-mentioned kinds
25 are displayed on a payline by the video reels 3, winning occurs.           These wins are
   associated with LINE payouts, resulting in multiplication of BET PER LINE.            The
   symbols "WILD" are substituted with the kinds of the symbols "GOLD", "BLUE",
   "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "KING", "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and
   "NINE".
30
   [0097]     For example, when in the base game and the free games, the symbols "GOLD"
   are displayed together on a payline by all of the video reels 3, "100" is determined as
   the number of a payout.     This win is a LINE payout, and a value of BET PER LINE is
   multiplied by this "100".        Coins whose number is based on the result of the
35 multiplication are paid out.     The paying-out of the coins is conducted by actually
                                                29

   discharging the coins from the coin payout opening 15A, by adding a value of the result
   of the multiplication to the number of credits or by issuing a bar code ticket.
   [0098]    The number of a payout (payout multiplying factor) of the symbols "GOLD" is
 5 the largest under the same condition, as compared with that of each of the kinds of
   symbols "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "KING", "QUEEN",
   "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE".          Accordingly, the symbols "GOLD" are top symbols.
   For example, when the winning combination including the symbols "GOLD" occurs on
   an activated line, among the paylines, on which a player places a bet (upon the
10 occurrence of the winning combination) and the number of the bet placed on the
   activated line is 5, a magnitude of a prize is determined by calculating "5 (the number of
   the bet) x 100 (the multiplying factor)", and then, a credit of 500 is paid out.
   [0099]    The symbols "FEATURE" are symbols related to the triggering of a bonus
15 game.    When three symbols "FEATURE" are displayed by the second video reel
   ("Reel 2") 3b, the third video reel ("Reel 3") 3c, and the fourth video reel ("Reel 4") 3d,
   "2" is determined as the number of a payout of a scatter pay.      A value of TOTAL BET
   is multiplied by a value of this SCATTER payout.         Starting from the next game, the
   bonus game (free games) is initiated.     Also when a total of the number of the displayed
20 symbols "FEATURE"          and the number of the displayed symbols "WILD" is a
   predetermined number (for example, 3), "2" is determined as the number of a payout of
   the scatter pay.   Starting from the next game, the bonus game (free games) is initiated.
   However, when the three symbols "FEATURE" are displayed, this winning is not that of
   the LINE payout for which a value of BET PER LINE is multiplied by the number of a
25 payout.    No winning of the LINE payout occurs in association with the symbols
   "FEATURE".        In addition, no winning of the LINE payout occurs by replacing the
   symbols "WILD" with the symbols "FEATURE".
   [0100]   When a predetermined combination composed of symbols of any of the kinds
30 of symbols "GOLD", "BLUE", "RED", "WHITE", "BLACK", "ACE", "KING",
   "QUEEN", "JACK", "TEN", and "NINE" is displayed on a payline, a jackpot trigger
   occurs and a jackpot amount is determined as the number of a payout.
   [0101]    [Contents of Programs]
35           The symbol combination tables are as described above.        Next, with reference
                                                 30

   to Fig. 16 to Fig. 25, programs executed by the slot machine 1 will be described.
   [0102]   <Main Control Processes>
            First, with reference to Fig. 16, main control processes will be described.   Fig.
 5  16 shows a flowchart of the main control processes of the slot machine according to the
   embodiment of the present invention.
   [0103]   First, when the slot machine 1 is powered on, the main CPU 71 reads out an
   authenticated game program and an authenticated game system program from the
10 memory card 54 via the gaming board 50 and writes the programs into the RAM 73
   (step S11).
   [0104]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a one-game-termination-time initialization
   process (step S12).     For example, data such as symbols determined by the number of
15 BETs and a drawing, which becomes unnecessary in a work area of the RAM 73 upon
   the termination of each one game played, is cleared.
   [0105]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a coin-in/start-check process described later
   with reference to Fig. 17 (step S13).     In this process, inputting of the BET switch and
20 the SPIN switch is checked.
   [0106]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a symbol drawing process described later
   with reference to Fig. 20 (step S14).      In this process, based on symbol determination
   random number values, symbols scheduled to be stopped are determined.
25
   [0107]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a mystery bonus drawing process (step S15).
   In this process, a drawing to determine whether or not a mystery bonus trigger is
   achieved is conducted.      For example, the main CPU 71 extracts a mystery bonus
   random number value from a range of "0 to 99" and, when the extracted random
30 number value is "0", it is determined that the mystery bonus trigger is achieved.
   [0108]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a presentation effects contents determination
   process (step S16).     The main CPU 71 extracts a presentation effects random number
   value and determines any of a predetermined plurality of presentation effects contents
35 by a drawing.
                                                 31

   [0109]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a symbol display control process described
   later with reference to Fig. 21 (step S17).     In this process, the scrolling of the symbol
   columns of the respective video reels 3 is started and the symbols scheduled to be
 5 stopped, which are determined in the symbol drawing process at step S14, are stopped
   in predetermined positions (for example, areas in the upper row of the symbol display
   area 4).   In other words, four symbols including the symbol scheduled to be stopped
   are displayed in the symbol display area 4.      For example, when the symbol scheduled
   to be stopped is a symbol associated with a code number "10" and is to be displayed in
10 the upper row, symbols associated with code Nos. "11", "12", and "13" are displayed in
   the middle upper row, the middle lower row, and the lower row in the symbol display
   area 4.
   [0110]   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a number-of-payout determination process
15 described later with reference to Fig. 22 (step S18).          In this process, based on a
   combination of symbols displayed on a payline, the number of a payout is determined
   and stored on a number-of-payout counter provided in the RAM 73.
   [0111]   Next, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the bonus game trigger has
20 been achieved (step S 19).     When determining that the bonus game trigger has been
   achieved, the main CPU 71 conducts a bonus game process described later with
   reference to Fig. 24 (step S20).    In the embodiment of the present invention, the bonus
   game is the free games.
25 [0112]   Next, after the process at step S20 or upon determining at step S19 that the
   bonus game trigger has not been achieved, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not
   a mystery bonus trigger has been achieved (step S21).           When determining that the
   mystery bonus trigger has been achieved, the main CPU 71 conducts a mystery bonus
   process (step S22).    In this process, the number of a payout (for example, 300) set for
30 the mystery bonus is stored on the number-of-payout counter provided in the RAM 73.
   [0113]   After the process at step S22 or upon determining at step S21 that the mystery
   bonus trigger has not been achieved, the main CPU 71 conducts an insurance check
   process described later with reference to Fig. 23 (step S23).          In this process, it is
35 checked whether or not paying-out by the insurance is conducted.
                                                32

   [0114]    Next, the main CPU 71 conducts a paying-out process (step S24).         The main
   CPU 71 adds a value stored on the number-of-payout counter to a value stored on a
   number-of-credit counter provided in the RAM 73.             Based on an input on the
 5 CASHOUT switch 33S, driving of the hopper 113 may be controlled, and coins in
   accordance with the value stored on the number-of-payout counter may be discharged
   from the coin payout opening 15A.       In addition, driving of the ticket printer 171 may
   be controlled, and a ticket having a bar code having stored thereon the value stored on
   the number-of-payout counter may be issued.       After having conducted this process, the
10 main CPU 71 shifts to step S12.
   [0115]    <Coin-In/Start-Check Process>
   Next, with reference to Fig. 17, the coin-in/start-check process will be described.    Fig.
    17 shows a flowchart of the coin-in/start-check process of the slot machine according to
15 the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0116]    First, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the coin counter 92C has
   detected inputting of coins (step S41).    When determining that inputting of the coins
   has been detected, the main CPU 71 performs an addition of a value of the
20 number-of-credit counter (step S42).     The main CPU 71 may determine whether or not
   the bill validator 115 has detected inputting of bills in addition to the inputting of the
   coins, and when determining that the inputting of bills has been detected, a value in
   accordance with the bills may be added to the value stored on the number-of-credit
   counter.
25
   [0117]    After step S42 or upon determining at step S41 that the inputting of the coins
   has not been detected, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the value stored in
   the number-of-credit counter is 0 (step S43).     When determining that the value stored
   on the number-of-credit counter is not 0, the main CPU 71 permits acceptance of an
30 operation of any of the BET buttons (step S44).
   [0118]    Next, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the operation of any of the
   BET buttons has been detected (step S45).      When any of the BET switches detects that
   any of the BET buttons has been pressed by a player, based on a kind of the pressed
35 BET button, the main CPU 71 performs an addition of a value stored on a
                                                33

   number-of-BET counter provided in the RAM 73 and a subtraction of a value stored on
   the number-of-credit counter (step S46).
   [0119]   Next, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the value stored on the
 5 number-of-BET counter is a maximum (step S47).           When determining that the value
   stored in the number-of-BET counter is the maximum, the main CPU 71 prohibits
   updating of the value stored in the number-of-BET counter (step S48).     After step S48
   or upon determining at step S47 that the value stored in the number-of-BET counter is
   not the maximum, the main CPU 71 permits acceptance of an operation of the SPIN
10 button (step S49).
   [0120]   After step S49, when determining at step S45 that the operation of any of the
   BET buttons has not been detected or when determining at step S43 that the value
   stored in the number-of-credit counter is 0, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not
15 the operation of the SPIN button has been detected (step S50).    When determining that
   the operation of the SPIN button has not been detected, the main CPU 71 shifts to step
   S41.
   [0121]   When determining that the operation of the SPIN button has been detected, the
20 main CPU 71 conducts a jackpot-related process described later with reference to Fig.
    18 (step S51).    In this process, an amount accumulated in the jackpot amount is
   calculated and the calculated amount is transmitted to the external control apparatus
   200.
25 [0122]   Next, main CPU 71 conducts an insurance-related process described later with
   reference to Fig. 19 (step S52).      In this process, counting of the number of games
   played, which leads to the paying-out by the insurance, is conducted.   After conducting
   this process, the coin-in/start-check process is finished.
30 [0123]   <Jackpot-Related Process>
            Next, with reference to Fig. 18, the jackpot-related process will be described.
   Fig. 18 shows a flowchart of the jackpot-related process of the slot machine according
   to the embodiment of the present invention.
35 [0124]   First, the main CPU 71 calculates a cumulative amount (step S71).     The main
                                                34

   CPU 71 calculates a product of a value stored in the number-of-BET counter and a
   cumulative rate, thereby obtaining the cumulative amount into the jackpot amount.
   [0125]    Next, the main CPU 71 transmits the calculated cumulative amount to the
 5 external control apparatus 200 (step S72).     When receiving the cumulative amount, the
   external control apparatus 200 updates the jackpot amount.          After conducting this
   process, the jackpot-related process is finished.
   [0126]    <Insurance-Related Process>
10           Next, with reference to Fig. 19, the insurance-related process will be described.
   Fig. 19 is a flowchart of the insurance-related process of the slot machine according to
   the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0127]    First, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not an insurance-active flag is
15 on (step S91).      The insurance-active flag is set to be on in an insurance selection
   process described later with reference to Fig. 25 when a player inputs an instruction
   which makes the insurance active.
   [0128]    When determining that the insurance-active flag is not on, the main CPU 71
20 finishes the insurance-related process.     On the other hand, when determining that the
   insurance-active flag is on, the main CPU 71 updates a value stored on an
   insurance-number-of-game      counter provided in the RAM 73 (step S92).                The
   insurance-number-of-game counter is a region for storing the number of games played
   until the paying-out by the insurance is conducted.    In the process at step S92, the main
25 CPU 71 adds one to the value stored in the insurance-number-of-game counter.           After
   conducting this process, the insurance-related process is finished.
   [0129]    <Symbol Drawing Process>
             Next, with reference to Fig. 20, the symbol drawing process will be described.
30 Fig. 20 shows a flowchart of the symbol drawing process of the slot machine according
   to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0130]    First, the main CPU 71 extracts symbol determination random number values
   (step SIll).     Next, the main CPU 71 determines symbols scheduled to be stopped of
35 the respective video reels 3 by drawings (step S 112).     The main CPU 71 conducts the
                                                35

   drawings in accordance with the respective video reels 3 and determines any of
   pluralities of symbols as the symbols scheduled to be stopped.           At this time, the
   respective pluralities of symbols are determined with probabilities which are equal to
   one another.
 5
   [0131] Next, the main CPU 71 stores the determined symbols scheduled to be stopped
   of the respective video reels 3 in a symbol storage region provided in the RAM 73 (step
   S113).    Next, with reference to the symbol combination tables (in Fig. 14 and Fig. 15),
   the main CPU 71 determines a LINE payout and a scatter pay based on the symbol
10 storage region (step S114).         The main CPU 71 determines whether or not a
   combination of the symbols displayed on payline by the respective video reels 3
   matches any combination of symbols of combinations defined in the symbol
   combination tables and determines the LINE payout.                 When three symbols
   "FEATURE" are displayed in the symbol display area 4, the main CPU 71 determines
15 "2" as the number of a payout of the scatter pay.        After conducting this process, the
   symbol drawing process is finished.
   [0132] In a case of this embodiment, a LINE payout which is a multiplying factor per
   line for the base game and a LINE payout which is a multiplying factor per line for each
20 of the free games are configured so as to be the LINE payouts which are the same as
   each other.    Among gaming machines being present in the world, each of which
   includes this kind of slot machine, there present are some of gaming machines, each of
   which is configured to set a LINE payout for a base game, achieved by the same
   symbols, and a LINE payout for each of the free games, achieved by the same symbols,
25 such that the LINE payout for each of the free games (second games) evolving from
   said base game is higher than the LINE payout for the base game.            In the present
   invention, however, in order to allow a player to easily recognize an amount of a payout
   and to avoid the complication of programs for executing arithmetic processing of
   payouts by using the processor of the slot machine, the table data of the payout tables
30 shown in Fig. 14 and Fig. 15 is adopted so as to allow the payouts to be the same as
   each other.    Of course, the table data of payouts for the base game and the table data of
   payouts for each of the free games shown in Fig. 14 and Fig. 15 may be made different
   from each other such that the LINE payout per line for each of the free games evolving
   from said base game, achieved by the same symbols, is higher than the LINE payout per
35 line for the base game, achieved by the same symbols, thereby allowing a game to be set
                                                 36

    such that a player can obtain a larger payout in each of the free games.  In the present
    embodiment, the reason for the same multiplying factors for the base game and each of
   the free games, obtained by the same symbols, is based on the above-described
   technical problems.
 5
    [0133]   <Symbol Display Control Process>
             Next, with reference to Fig. 21, the symbol display control process will be
    described.   Fig. 21 shows a flowchart of the symbol display control process of the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
10
    [0134]   First, the main CPU 71 starts the scrolling of the symbol columns of the
   respective video reels 3 displayed in the symbol display area 4 of the lower side image
    display panel 141 (step S131).      Next, the main CPU 71 stops the scrolling of the
    symbol columns of the respective video reels 3 based on the above-described symbol
15  storage region (step S132).    After conducting this process, the symbol display control
   process is finished.
    [0135]   <Number-of-Payout Determination Process>
             Next, with reference to Fig. 22, the number-of-payout determination process
20 will be described.    Fig. 22 shows a flowchart of the number-of-payout determination
   process of the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
    [0136]   First, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not a combination of symbols is
    associated with a jackpot (step S151).      When determining that the combination of
25  symbols is not associated with the jackpot, the main CPU 71 determines the numbers of
   payouts corresponding to a LINE payout and a scatter pay (step S152).       When losing
    occurs, "0" is determined as the number of a payout.      Next, the main CPU 71 stores
   the determined numbers of payouts in the number-of-payout counter (step S153).
   After conducting this process, the number-of-payout determination process is finished.
30
    [0137]   When determining that the combination of symbols is associated with the
   jackpot, the main CPU 71 notifies the external control apparatus 200 that the jackpot
   has occurred (step S154).     When having received the notification, the external control
    apparatus 200 transmits to the slot machine 1 the jackpot amount which has been
35 updated until then.    At this time, a portion of the jackpot amount (for example, 80%)
                                                37

   may be targeted to be paid out, and the remaining thereof (for example, 20%) may be
   carried over in preparation for the achievement of the next jackpot trigger.
   [0138]   Next, the main CPU 71 receives the jackpot amount from the external control
 5 apparatus 200 (step S 155).   Next, the main CPU 71 stores the received jackpot amount
   on the number-of-payout counter (step S156).         After conducting this process, the
   number-of-payout determination process is finished.
   [0139]   <Insurance Check Process>
10          Next, with reference to Fig. 23, the insurance check process will be described.
   Fig. 23 shows a flowchart of the insurance check process of the slot machine according
   to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0140]   First, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the insurance-active flag is
15 on (step S171).     When determining that the insurance-active flag is not on, the main
   CPU 71 finishes the insurance check process.
   [0141]   When determining that the insurance-active flag is on, the main CPU 71
   determines whether or not a predetermined combination of symbols has been achieved
20 (step S172).      In the embodiment of the present invention, the predetermined
   combination of symbols is targeted for the "bonus game trigger", the "jackpot", and the
   "mystery bonus".
   [0142]   When determining that the predetermined combination of symbols has not been
25 achieved, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not a value stored in the
   insurance-number-of-game counter has reached a predetermined number of times (for
   example, 300) (step S173).          When determining that the value stored in the
   insurance-number-of-game counter has not reached the predetermined number of times,
   the main CPU 71 finishes the insurance check process.
30
   [0143]   When determining that the value stored in the insurance-number-of-game
   counter has reached the predetermined number of times, the main CPU 71 conducts the
   paying-out process based on the insurance amount (step S174).          The main CPU 71
   adds a predetermined amount (for example, 200) as the insurance amount to a value
35 stored on the number-of-credit counter.
                                               38

   [0144]   After step S174 or upon determining at step S172 that the predetermined
   combination of symbols has been achieved, the main CPU 71 resets the value stored on
   the insurance-number-of-game counter (step S175).       Next, the main CPU 71 turns off
 5 the insurance-active flag (step S176).     After conducting this process, the insurance
   check process is finished.
   [0145]   <Bonus Game Process>
            Next, with reference to Fig. 24, the bonus game process will be described.
10 Fig. 24 shows a flowchart of the bonus game process of the slot machine according to
   the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0146]   First, the main CPU 71 determines the number of bonus games (step S191).
   The main CPU 71 uniformly determines "8" as the number of bonus games.           However,
15 the main CPU 71 may extract random number values for determining the number of
   bonus games, and determines any of a plurality of the numbers of bonus games, for
   example "50", "70", and "100", by a drawing.
   [0147]   Next, the main CPU 71 stores the determined number of bonus games on a
20 number-of-bonus game counter provided in the RAM 73 (step S 192).
   [0148]   Next, as in the process at step S12 described with reference to Fig. 16, the main
   CPU 71 conducts the one-game-termination-time initialization process (step S193).
   Next, the main CPU 71 conducts the symbol drawing process described with reference
25 to Fig. 20 (step S194).   Next, as in the process at step S16 described with reference to
   Fig. 16, the main CPU 71 conducts the presentation effects contents determination
   process (step S195).     Next, the main CPU 71 conducts the symbol display control
   process described with reference to Fig. 21 (step S196).        Next, the main CPU 71
   conducts the number-of-payout determination process described with reference to Fig.
30 22 (step S197).
   [0149]   Next, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not a bonus game trigger has
   been achieved (step S198).     When determining that the bonus game trigger has been
   achieved, the main CPU 71 determines the number of bonus games to be added (step
35 S199).   As in the above-described process at step S191, the number of bonus games is
                                               39

   determined.    Next, the main CPU 71 adds the determined number of bonus games to a
   value stored on the number-of-bonus game counter (step S200).
   [0150] After the process at step S200 or upon determining at step S198 that the bonus
 5 game trigger has not been achieved, the main CPU 71 conducts the paying-out process
   (step S201).   In this paying-out process, the main CPU 71 adds the value stored on the
   number-of-payout counter in the above-described number-of-payout determination
   process at step S197 to a value stored on a bonus-number-of-payout counter.           The
   bonus-number-of-payout counter is a region for storing the total of the number of
10 payouts determined during the bonus games. Upon finishing the bonus game process,
   the main CPU 71 adds the value stored on the bonus-number-of-payout counter in the
   paying-out process, at step S24 described with reference to Fig. 16, to a value stored on
   the number-of-credit counter provided in the RAM 73.     In other words, the total of the
   number of payouts determined in the bonus games is paid out.              Coins may be
15 discharged from the coin payout opening 15A and a ticket having a bar code may be
   issued.
   [0151] Next, the main CPU 71 subtracts one from the value stored on the
   number-of-bonus game counter (step S202).         Next, the main CPU 71 determines
20 whether or not the value stored in the number-of-bonus game counter is zero (step
   S203).   When determining that the value stored in the number-of-bonus game counter
   is not zero, the main CPU 71 shifts to the process at step S193. On the other hand,
   when determining that the value stored in the number-of-bonus game counter is zero,
   the main CPU 71 finishes the bonus game process.       Upon finishing the bonus game
25 process, the main CPU 71 shifts to the process at step S21 described with reference to
   Fig. 16.
   [0152] <Insurance Selection Process>
            Next, with reference to Fig. 25, the insurance selection process will be
30 described.   Fig. 25 shows a flowchart of the insurance selection process of the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0153] First, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not the insurance-active flag is
   on (step S221).    When determining that the insurance-active flag is not on, the main
35 CPU 71 displays an insurance-inactive-image (step S222).           The main CPU 71
                                               40

   transmits an instruction to display the insurance-inactive-image to the graphic board 130.
   Based on the instruction, the graphic board 130 generates the insurance-inactive-image
   and displays the insurance-inactive-image on the lower side image display panel 141.
   As the insurance-inactive-image, for example, an image indicating "INSURANCE BET
 5 $1.00 TOUCH TO BET" is displayed.           This image is to prompt a player to make a
   selection on whether or not the insurance is made active and to notify a player of an
   amount required to make the insurance active.        By touching a predetermined portion
   on the touch panel 114, a player can input an instruction indicating that the insurance is
   made active.
10
   [0154]   Subsequently, the main CPU 71 determines whether or not there is the input
   indicating that the insurance is made active (step S223).     When determining that there
   is no input indicating that the insurance is made active, the main CPU 71, with the
   insurance-active flag being kept off, shifts to step S221.       On the other hand, when
15 determining that there is the input indicating that the insurance is made active, the main
   CPU 71 turns on the insurance-active flag (step S224).
   [0155]   Next, the main CPU 71 subtracts an insurance purchase value from a value
   stored on the number-of-credit counter (step S225).      In the embodiment of the present
20 invention, for example, a value corresponding to one dollar is subtracted from the value
   stored on the number-of-credit counter.      After step S225 or upon determining at step
   S221 that the insurance-active flag is on, the main CPU 71 displays an insurance-active
   image (step S226).     As the insurance-active image, for example, an image indicating
   "INSURANCE-CONTINUING              WIN 200 CREDIT" is displayed. This image is to
25 notify a player that the insurance is active and that upon satisfying an insurance
   condition, a value of "200" is added to a value stored on the number-of-credit counter.
   After conducting this process, the main CPU 71 shifts to step S221.
   [0156]   [Screen Display Specification]
30          The programs executed by the slot machine 1 are as described above.          Next,
   with reference to Fig. 26 and Fig. 27, a screen display specification will be described.
   [0157]   <Screen Display Specification During Base Game>
            First, with reference to Fig. 26, a screen display specification during the base
35 game will be described.        Fig. 26 is a diagram illustrating the screen display
                                                41

   specification of the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention
   during the base game.
   [0158]    As shown in Fig. 26, on the upper side image display panel 131 during the base
 5 game, a title logo area 401, an image 402, and an information area 403 are provided.
   In the title logo area 401, a game title logo is displayed.   Accordingly, during each of
   the free games, the game tile log is switched to a display of a name of each of the free
   games.     When a display language is switched to English or Chinese, a title in the
   switched language is displayed.         In the image 402, a main image of a game is
10 displayed.     During the free games, a background is changed to be displayed.       In the
   information area 403, a brief explanation of game rules is displayed.         Accordingly,
   during the base game and the free games, display contents are changed.       Loop-display
   of words and sentences of each of the display contents is conducted at 10-second
   intervals.
15
   [0159]    On the lower side image display panel 141 during the base game, in addition to
   the above-described symbol display area 4, a CREDIT meter 404, a BET meter 405, a
   WIN meter 406, a display area 407 for displaying BET information and a game state, a
   display area 408 for displaying LINE Nos., a HELP touch button 409, a language switch
20 touch button 410, a sound volume switch touch button 411, and a DENOMI display area
   412 are provided.       In the CREDIT meter 404, the number of remaining credits is
   displayed.     An initial value is "0". In other words, the number of credits stored in the
   RAM 73 is displayed.        In the BET meter 405, the total BET number of a current game
   (or a final game) is displayed.      In the WIN meter 406, the TOTAL credit number of
25 WIN and a breakdown of WIN are displayed.            As each of the WIN credit numbers
   displayed in the WIN meter 406, the number of credit which is actually obtained by the
   multiplication by the number of BET PER LINE is displayed.
   [0160] In the display area 407 for displaying the BET information and the game state,
30 the BET information pertinent to a current game (or a final game) is displayed. On the
   first line, the number of BET PER LINE is displayed.          In this display, singular or
   plural words are displayed depending on the number of BET(s).         For example, when
   the number of BET PER LINE is "1", "1 CREDIT PER LINE" is displayed with the
   singular word of "CREDIT".           When the number of BET PER LINE is "2", "2
35 CREDITS PER LINE" is displayed with the plural word of "CREDITS".               The plural
                                                 42

   word of "CREDITS" is displayed also when the number of BET PER LINE is "3" or
   more.    Further, in the display area 407 for displaying the BET information and the
   game state, a state of the current game is displayed.    When the current game is being
   played, no message is displayed.     When the current game is over, "GAME OVER" is
 5 displayed.    When the state of the current game is a state of GAMBLE waiting, "PLAY
   ON, GAMBLE or TAKE WIN" is displayed.
   [0161]    In the display area 408 for displaying the LINE Nos., the LINE Nos. of 50
   paylines are displayed.    In the embodiment of the present invention, because of a
10 full-line-limited game, there is no mid-stage.     The HELP touch button 409, when
   touched by a player, displays the first page of a HELP screen on the lower side image
   display panel 141.    The HELP touch button 409 becomes dark while being deactivated,
   for example, while the video reels 3 are rotating.
15 [0162]    The language switch touch button 410, when touched by a player, switches the
   display language to English or Chinese.       The language switch touch button 410 is
   activated only during advertising and becomes dark while being deactivated, for
   example, while the video reels 3 are rotating.      Further, the language switch touch
   button 410 changes a national flag display to be "UK/CHN" or "US/CHN" by making a
20 setting on an AUDIT MENU.         In addition, when the language switch is in a state of
   "DISABLE", the language switch touch button 410 becomes a PAYTABLE button,
   thereby being changed to be a button for displaying a payout table on the HELP screen.
   [0163]    The sound volume switch touch button 411 changes a game sound volume in
25 three phases.    Each time a player touches the sound volume switch touch button 411,
   the game sound volume is changed in the order of a small sound volume -+ a middle
   sound volume, -+ a large sound volume -> a small sound volume -* a middle sound
   volume ... . In the DENOMI display area 412, a current denomination is displayed.
30 [0164]    <HELP Screen Display Specification In Normal Time>
             Next, with reference to Fig. 27 a screen display specification during the base
   game will be described.     Fig. 27 is a diagram illustrating the HELP screen display
   specification of the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention
   during the base game.
35
                                               43

   [0165]    As shown on the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig. 27, in the
   HELP screen display specification during the base game, the above-described CREDIT
   meter 404, BET meter 405, WIN meter 406, BET information, display area 407 for
   displaying the game state, and DENOMI display area 412 are displayed.           Further, on
 5 the lower side image display panel 141, a HELP screen 413 is allocated and an EXIT
   touch button 414, a PREV. touch button 415, and a NEXT touch button 416 are
   provided.
   [0166]    The EXIT touch button 414, when touched by a player, causes the lower side
10 image display panel 141 to exit from the HELP screen 413 and to be returned to a base
   game screen (refer to Fig. 26).    The PREV. touch button 415, when touched by a player,
   causes the HELP screen 413 to be retuned to a previous page by one page.        The NEXT
   touch button 416, when touched by a player, causes the HELP screen 413 to proceed to
   the next page by one page.
15
   [0167]    [WIN Presentation Effects]
             The screen display specification of the slot machine 1 is as described above.
   Next, with reference to Fig. 28 to Fig. 38C, WIN presentation effects of the slot
   machine 1 will be described.
20
   [0168]    WIN presentation effects are presentation effect performed when any WIN has
   occurred during the base game and the free games.        In the embodiment of the present
   invention, unlike the conventional type of the free games, character animation on the
   upper side image display panel 131 and animation above the symbol display area 4 of
25 the lower side image display panel 141 are not conducted.        In the WIN presentation
   effects, only animation of symbols, WIN incrementing, a WIN signboard display on the
   upper side image display panel 131 are conducted.
   [0169]    <Flow of WIN Presentation Effects>
30           Here, with reference to Fig. 28 to Fig. 33, a flow of WIN presentation effects
   will be described.     Each of Fig. 28 to Fig. 33 is a diagram illustrating the flow of the
   WIN presentation effects of the slot machine according to the embodiment of the
   present invention.
35 [0170]    First, as shown in Fig. 28, in the symbol display area 4 of the lower side image
                                                 44

   display panel 141, all of the reels are stopped.   When all of the reels have been stopped,
   as shown in Fig. 29, in the image 402 on the upper side image display panel 131, a WIN
   signboard 421 is displayed.     On the WIN signboard 421, a won credit is displayed in
   an incremented manner.        The increment display of the won credit on the WIN
 5 signboard 421 is linked with the display in the WIN meter 406 on the lower side image
   display panel 141.
   [0171]    On the lower side image display panel 141, with respect to the achieved
   winning, WIN presentation effects are performed.         First, with respect to a scatter pay,
10 the WIN presentation effects are performed, and next, with respect to a LINE payout,
   the WIN presentation effects are performed.         With respect to the LINE payout, the
   WIN presentation effects are performed in ascending order of the LINE Nos.             At this
   time, with respect to symbols for which WIN animation is prepared, irrespective of the
   LINE Nos., presentation effects using the animation are performed.         In contrast to this,
15 with respect to symbols for which WIN animation is not prepared (symbols for which
   the WIN presentation effects blink), only when winning of a LINE payout to which the
   above-mentioned symbols correspond occurs, the WIN presentation effects blink.
   [0172]    In the WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, a WIN gross
20 amount upon starting the incrementing is displayed in an upper row.         In a lower row in
   which a breakdown is displayed, a WIN LINE payout for which WIN LINE lights up
   (in Fig. 29, LINE 2 WIN    = 50) is displayed.   "TOTAL WIN" is not displayed.
   [0173]    Next, as shown in Fig. 30, on the WIN signboard 421 of the image 402 on the
25 upper side image display panel 131, the increment display of the won credit is continued.
   On the lower side image display panel 141, the order of displaying the WIN LINE is
   caused to proceed.     Here, the order of displaying the WIN LINE with respect to
   symbols marked with stars and black dots proceeds.          In addition, with respect to both
   of the symbols marked with the stars and the symbols marked with black dots, since the
30 WIN animation is prepared, irrespective of the LINE Nos., the presentation effects by
   using the animation are performed.      In contrast to this, with respect to symbols marked
   with "J", since the order of displaying the WIN LINE does not proceed and the WIN
   animation is not prepared, these symbols remain stopped.         With respect to the symbols
   marked with the starts in the order of displaying the WIN LINE (the second-smallest
35 LINE No.), the WIN LINE lights up.
                                                45

   [0174]    In the WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, the increment
   display of the WIN gross amount is continued in the upper row.        In the lower row in
   which the breakdown is displayed, a payout (in Fig. 30, LINE 5 WIN      =  15) of the WIN
 5 LINE for which the WIN LINE is currently lighting up is displayed.      The TOTAL WIN
   is not displayed.
   [0175]    Next, as shown in Fig. 31, in the image 402 on the upper side image display
   panel 131, the WIN signboard 421 is displayed.           On the WIN signboard 421, the
10 increment display of the won credit is continued.       The increment display of the won
   credit on the WIN signboard 421 is linked with the display in the WIN meter 406 on the
   lower side image display panel 141.
   [0176]    On the lower side image display panel 141, the order of displaying the WIN
15 LINE is caused to proceed.          Here, with respect to the symbols marked with "J",
   starting from the symbols marked with the black dots, the order of displaying the WIN
   LINE proceeds.      In addition, with respect to both of the symbols marked with the stars
   and the symbols marked with black dots, since the WIN animation is prepared,
   irrespective of the LINE Nos., the presentation effects by using the animation are
20 performed.     In contrast to this, symbols marked with "J", since the order of displaying
   the WIN LINE proceeds but the WIN animation is not prepared, the WIN LINE is
   caused to blink.      With respect to the symbols marked with "J" in the order of
   displaying the WIN LINE (the third smallest LINE No.), the WIN LINE lights up.
25 [0177]    In the WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, the increment
   display of the WIN gross amount is continued in the upper row.        In the lower row in
   which the breakdown is displayed, a payout (in Fig. 31, LINE 13 WIN       = 5) of the WIN
   LINE for which the WIN LINE is currently lighting up is displayed.      The TOTAL WIN
   is not displayed.
30
   [0178]    Next, as shown in Fig. 32, on the WIN signboard 421 displayed in the image
   402 on the upper side image display panel 131, a total WIN amount is displayed.        The
   increment display of the won credit is finished.    On the lower side image display panel
    141, since one round of displaying won symbols have been finished, the loop display is
35 conducted in ascending order of the LINE Nos.
                                                 46

   [0179]    In the WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, the increment
   display of the WIN gross amount in the upper row is finished.       Also in the upper row,
   the total WIN amount is displayed.         In the lower row in which the breakdown is
 5 displayed, since one round of displaying won symbols have been finished, the loop
   display is conducted in ascending order of the LINE Nos.       In Fig. 32, "LINE 2 WIN   =
   50" is displayed again.
   [0180]    Thereafter, the display mode shifts from that shown in Fig. 32 to that shown in
10 Fig. 33.    However, when GAMBLE is ON, upon finishing GAMBLE or after TAKE
   WIN, and when GAMBLE is OFF, 5 seconds after finishing the increment display of
   the WIN gross amount, the display mode shifts from that shown in Fig. 32 to that shown
   in Fig. 33.
15 [0181]    As shown in Fig. 33, in the image 402 on the upper side image display panel
    131, the WIN signboard 421 is erased.      On the lower side image display panel 141, the
   loop display is continued to be conducted in ascending order of the LINE Nos.       In the
   WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, the total WIN amount is
   continued to be displayed.      In the lower row in which the breakdown is displayed, the
20 loop display is continued to be conducted in ascending order of the LINE Nos.      In Fig.
   33, "LINE 5 WIN     =  15" is displayed again.
   [0182]    <WIN Signboard>
             Here, with reference to Fig. 34A to 34C, the WIN signboard will be described.
25 Fig. 34A to 34C is a diagram illustrating the WIN signboard of the slot machine
   according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0183]    In the embodiment of the present invention, as shown in Fig. 34Ato 34C, there
   are three kinds of WIN signboards 421, which are displayed on the upper side image
30 display panel 131.      However, since for each of the three kinds, another version for
    1-credit payout is prepared, there are actually six kinds.   Because symbols associated
   with the 1-credit payout are present, only when the display language is English, it is
   required that the WIN signboards 421 be used differently in a case where the TOTAL
   WIN amount is one and in a case where the TOTAL WIN amount is two or more.
35
                                                 47

   [0184]    On a silver signboard 421 shown in Fig. 34A, when a TOTAL WIN amount of
   that spinning is less than 15 times the BET amount, the TOTAL WIN amount is
   displayed on the upper side image display panel 131.
 5 [0185]    On a first gold signboard 421 shown in Fig. 34B, when a TOTAL WIN amount
   of that spinning is greater than or equal to 15 times and less than 50 times the BET
   amount, the TOTAL WIN amount is displayed on the upper side image display panel
    131.   On the first gold signboard 421, presentation effects in which coins 431 are
   falling are performed.
10
   [0186]    In contrast to this, when the increment amount exceeds 50 times the BET
   amount, on the upper side image display panel 131, the first gold signboard 421 shown
   in Fig. 34B is changed to a second gold signboard 421 shown in Fig. 34C.             On the
   second gold signboard 421, presentation effects in which coins 431 and bills 432 are
15 falling are performed.     In other words, on the upper side image display panel 131, the
   presentation effects in which the coins 431 are falling are first performed on the first
   gold signboard 421.      In accordance with the increment display in the WIN meter 406,
   the won credit is incremented on the first gold signboard 421.         Further, at the time
   point at which the increment amount exceeds 50 times the BET amount, the first gold
20 signboard 421 shown in Fig. 34B is rewritten to the second gold signboard 421 shown
   in Fig. 34C.    On the second gold signboard 421, the presentation effects in which the
   coins 431 and the bills 432 are falling are performed.
   [0187]    <Sound Effects Upon Appearance Of Three Feature Symbols>
25           Here, with reference to Fig. 35 to Fig. 37, sound effects upon the appearance of
   the three feature symbols will be described.      Each of Fig. 35 to Fig. 37 is a diagram
   explaining the sound effects upon the appearance of the three feature symbols of the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
30 [0188]    Upon the appearance of the three feature symbols, dedicated ring-ring sound is
   reproduced.     As the timing thereof, for three seconds from when 30 frames have
   passed through after the stoppage of all of the reels up to when the increment is started,
   the sound is reproduced.     During the reproduction of the ring-ring sound, the display of
   symbol animation and LINE WIN and the increment display are halted.                   Upon
35 retriggering during each of the free games, the same applied thereto.       However, after
                                                48

   the retriggering has been conducted during that free game, waiting of the 30 frames and
   the reproduction of the ring-ring sound are not conducted.
   [0189]    In the embodiment of the present invention, as shown in Fig. 35, when in the
 5 symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, the three feature
   symbols have appeared upon the stoppage of all of the reels, the waiting time of the 30
   frames from then is set.    When the waiting time of the 30 frames has passed, as shown
   in Fig. 36, as the sound effects upon the appearance of the three feature symbols, as
   indicated by a balloon 441, the ring-ring sound is reproduced for three seconds.
10
   [0190]    When these three seconds have passed, as shown in Fig. 37, in the symbol
   display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, the presentation effects of the
   LINE WIN is started and the symbol animation is started.        In addition, in the image
   402 on the upper side image display panel 131, the WIN signboard 421 is displayed.
15 On the WIN signboard 421, the increment display is started.      Concurrently, also in the
   WIN meter 406 on the lower side image display panel 141, the increment display is
   started.   Further, increment sound is started.   Thereafter, the processing shifts to the
   flow of the above-described WIN presentation effects.
20 [0191]    <TOTAL WIN Signboard After Free Games>
             Here, with reference to Fig. 38A to 38C, a TOTAL WIN signboard after the
   free games will be described.      Fig. 38A to 38C is a diagram illustrating the TOTAL
   WIN signboard after the free games of the slot machine according to the embodiment of
   the present invention.
25
   [0192]    After finishing the free games, TOTAL won credits are displayed on the lower
   side image display panel 141.      Depending on an amount of the won credits (by how
   many times the TOTAL BET is), three kinds of presentation effects are used so as to be
   associated therewith.
30
   [0193]    When a value of the TOTAL won credits is less than 20 times as the value of
   the TOTAL BET, the silver signboard 421 shown in Fig. 38A is displayed on the lower
   side image display panel 141 for 3.6 seconds.        When a value of the TOTAL won
   credits is greater than or equal to 20 times and less than 50 times the value of the
35 TOTAL BET, the first gold signboard 421 shown in Fig. 38B is displayed on the lower
                                               49

   side image display panel 141 for 6 seconds.        On the first gold signboard 421, the
   presentation effects in which the coins 431 are falling are performed.    When a value of
   the TOTAL won credits is greater than or equal to 50 times the value of the TOTAL
   BET, the second gold signboard 421 shown in Fig. 38C is displayed on the lower side
 5 image display panel 141 for 10 seconds.        On the second gold signboard 421, the
   presentation effects in which the coins 431 and the bills 432 are falling are performed.
   [0194]    [Free Game Presentation Effects]
             The WIN presentation effects of the slot machine 1 are as described above.
10 Next, with reference to Fig. 39 to Fig. 54, free game presentation effects of the slot
   machine 1 will be described.
   [0195]    <Presentation Effects Upon Introduction of Free Games>
             Here, with reference to Fig. 39 to Fig. 43, presentation effects upon the
15 introduction of the free games will be described.       Each of Fig. 39 to Fig. 43 is a
   diagram illustrating the presentation effects upon the introduction of the free games of
   the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0196]    As shown in Fig. 39, when the three feature symbols (indicated by shaded
20 areas) have appeared in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel
    141, as described above, the ring-ring sound as the sound effects is reproduced.    Next,
   as shown in Fig. 40, the WIN signboard 421 is displayed in the image 402 on the upper
   side image display panel 131.      On the WIN signboard 421, the increment display is
   conducted.
25
   [0197]    After the increment display has been finished or skipped, as shown in Fig. 41,
   in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, a free game
   introduction presentation effects board 451 is displayed.             On the free game
   introduction presentation effects board 451, an introduction message is displayed.
30 When a START FEATURE button is pressed, as shown in Fig. 42, the lower side image
   display panel 141 and the upper side image display panel 131 are switched to screens
   used during the free games.     The information area 403 on the upper side image display
   panel 131 is switched to an area used for the free games.      Below the symbol display
   area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, a free game counter 452 is displayed.
35 As shown in Fig. 43, in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel
                                               50

    141, the rotation of all of the reels is started.  On the free game counter 452 on the
   lower side image display panel 141, "1 of 8" indicating that the first one of the free
   games is started is displayed.
 5 [0198]    <Presentation Effects Upon Finishing Free Games>
             Here, with reference to Fig. 44 to Fig. 46, presentation effects upon finishing
   the free games will be described.      Each of Fig. 44 to Fig. 46 is a diagram illustrating
   the presentation effects upon finishing the free games of the slot machine according to
   the embodiment of the present invention.
10
   [0199]    As shown in Fig. 44, when in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side
   image display panel 141, the final spinning has been finished, on the free game counter
   452 on the lower side image display panel 141, "8 of 8" indicating that the free games
   have been finished is displayed.      In the image 402 on the upper side image display
15 panel 131, the WIN signboard 421 is displayed.        However, when a value of the won
   credits is zero, the WIN signboard 421 is not displayed.
   [0200]    When the WIN signboard 421 has disappeared from the image 402 on the
   upper side image display panel 131, as shown in Fig. 45, in the symbol display area 4
20 on the lower side image display panel 141, a free game total WIN signboard 453 is
   displayed.    On the free game total WIN signboard 453, the won credits in the free
   games are displayed.     However, when a value of the won credits in the free games is
   zero, the free game total WIN signboard 453 is not displayed.
25 [0201]    When the free game total WIN signboard 453 has disappeared from the symbol
   display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, as shown in Fig. 46, the upper
   side image display panel 131 and the lower side image display panel 141 are switched
   to the base game screens.     At this time, the video reels 3 are changed to the video reel
   strips for the base game.    A state of the changed video reel strips for the base game is
30 returned to the state upon triggering the free games.       In addition, above the symbol
   display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, a display frame 454 in which
   "GAMBLE OR TAKE WIN" is displayed is provided.                When in the symbol display
   area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig. 45, the free game total
   WIN signboard 453 is not displayed, after a lapse of two seconds from when the final
35 spinning was finished, as shown in Fig. 46, the upper side image display panel 131 and
                                                 51

   the lower side image display panel 141 are switched to the base game screens.
   [0202]    <Presentation Effects Upon Retriggering>
             Here, with reference to Fig. 47 to Fig. 50, presentation effects upon retriggering
 5 will be described.    Each of Fig. 47 to Fig. 50 is a diagram illustrating the presentation
   effects upon the retriggering in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the
   present invention.
   [0203]    As shown in Fig. 47, when in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side
10 image display panel 141, the three feature symbols (indicated by shaded areas) have
   appeared, as described above, the ring-ring sound as the sound effects is reproduced.
   In Fig. 47, since on the free game counter 452 on the lower side image display panel
    141, "3 of 8" is displayed, the three feature symbols (indicated by the shaded areas)
   have appeared in the third one of the free games.
15
   [0204]    Next, as shown in the upper row in Fig. 48, in the symbol display area 4 on the
   lower side image display panel 141, a retrigger message board 455 is displayed.           On
   the retrigger message board 455, a message related to the retriggering is displayed.
   When the message has disappeared or a button skip is conducted, as shown in a lower
20 area in Fig. 48, the retrigger message board 455 is erased from the symbol display area
   4 on the lower side image display panel 141.       Added to the total count of the free game
   counter is "8".    In other words, on the free game counter 452 on the lower side image
   display panel 141, "3 of 16" is displayed.       When the lower side image display panel
    141 is displayed as shown in an upper area or the lower area in Fig. 48, a state in which
25 the upper side image display panel 131 is as shown in Fig. 47 is maintained.
   [0205]    As shown in Fig. 49, in the image 402 on the upper side image display panel
    131, the WIN signboard 421 is displayed.        When the increment display on the WIN
   signboard 421 has been finished or the button skip is conducted, as shown in Fig. 50,
30 the rotation of all of the reels is started in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side
   image display panel 141.       On the free game counter 452 on the lower side image
   display panel 141, "4 of 16" indicating that the fourth one of the free games is started is
   displayed.
35 [0206]    <Screen During Free Games>
                                                 52

             Here, with reference to Fig. 51, a screen during the free games will be
   described.    Fig. 51 is a diagram illustrating the screen during the free games in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
 5 [0207]    As shown in Fig. 51, as on the lower side image display panel 141 in the base
   game time shown in Fig. 26, on the lower side image display panel 141 in the free
   games, in addition to the symbol display area 4, the CREDIT meter 404, the BET meter
   405, the WIN meter 406, the display area 407 for displaying the BET information and
   the game state, the display area 408 for indicating the LINE Nos. the HELP touch
10 button 409, the language switch touch button 410, the sound volume switch touch
   button 411, and the DENOMI display area 412 are provided.
   [0208]    Further, immediately after the introduction of the free games, in the lower right
   portion of the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, the free
15 game counter 452 is displayed.         On the free game counter 452, words "BONUS
   REELS IN PLAY" are displayed.          In the free games, since the video reel strips which
   are different from those used in the base game are used, the words "BONUS REELS IN
   PLAY" are displayed.       The words "BONUS REELS IN PLAY" may be hidden by the
   free game counter 452 or the symbol animation.
20
   [0209]    On the free game counter 452, a word "FREE" is also displayed.            The word
   "FREE" indicates that each of the free games is being played and, upon starting the
   spinning in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, is
   concurrently expanded to be displayed.
25
   [0210]    On the free game counter 452, words "xxx OF yyy" are also displayed.             On
   the free game counter 452, a total number of free games and a number of free games
   which have been currently played are displayed.          Upon starting the spinning in the
   symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, the portion of "xxx" is
30 concurrently expanded to be displayed.       Further, the portion of "xxx" notifies a player
   that each of the free games is played on a one-by-one basis.        Prior to starting the free
   games, in the portion of "xxx", "0" is displayed.      Concurrently with the starting of the
   rotation of the reels in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel
    141, in the portion of "xxx", "+1" is counted and, concurrently with outputting of a
35 voice, the number is expanded to be displayed.       In a portion of "yyy", the total number
                                                 53

   of free games is displayed.   A maximum number of digits displayed in each of "x" and
   "y" is one.
   [0211]    On the lower side image display panel 141 during the free games, as performed
 5 during the base game, the WIN presentation effects upon the occurrence of any WIN,
   the increment process, and the LINE presentation effects are performed.        With respect
   to the LINE and BET during the free games, the LINE number and the BET number
   upon the occurrence of the free games are carried over.       A value of the WINs during
   the free games is added to a value in the WIN meter in an upper right portion of the
10 lower side image display panel 141.
   [0212]   <Appeal Rewriting Upon Starting Spinning During Free Games>
            Here, with reference to Fig. 52 to Fig. 54, appeal rewriting upon starting the
   spinning during the free games will be described.         Each of Fig. 52 to Fig. 54 is a
15 diagram explaining the appeal rewriting upon starting the spinning during the free
   games in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0213]   In the embodiment of the present invention, as shown in Fig. 52, during the
   free games, the symbols "GOLD" are replaced with symbols "Yellow Dragon", and in
20 order to make an appeal indicating that displayed are advantageous reel strips in which
   the number of the symbols "Yellow Dragon" as the top symbols is increased, a
   mechanism in which clusters of the symbols "Yellow Dragon" are displayed upon
   starting the rotation of the reels in the symbol display area 4 is incorporated.       With
   respect to each of the Reel 1 to Reel 5, a drawing for appeal rewriting is individually
25 conducted, and any reel which has won in the drawing is started in the vicinity of the
   clusters of the symbols "Yellow Dragon" in the frames in the symbol display area 4
   upon starting the rotation.   Here, the reason why the word "vicinity" of the clusters is
   used is that in order to avoid arranging the clusters in a straight line each time, a
   position at which the rewriting is conducted is randomly selected from three positions in
30 the vicinity of the beginnings of the symbols "Yellow Dragon" arranged in succession.
   However, since the drawing for the rewriting is individually conducted with respect to
   each of the 1 to 5 reels, in reality, there is also some reel which is not started in the
   vicinity of the symbols "Yellow Dragon".       Fig. 53 shows start positions after rewriting
   upon the winning in the drawing for the appeal rewriting.       Fig. 54 shows presence or
35 absence of the appeal rewriting and drawings for the rewriting positions.
                                                54

   [0214]    [Button Look-Ahead Specification]
             The free game presentation effects in the slot machine 1 are as described above.
   Next, with reference to Fig. 55, a button look-ahead specification in the slot machine 1
 5 will be described.     Fig. 55 is a diagram explaining the button look-ahead specification
   in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.           The button
   look-ahead specification is a specification related to a function with which during the
   base game, inputting of the SPIN or the MAX BET buttons for the next game is
   accepted immediately before the finishing of the rotation of the reels, thereby enabling
10 the next game to be smoothly started.
   [0215]    In the button look-ahead function, the symbol display area 4 on the lower side
   image display panel 141 is changed in manners shown in part (a) to part (e) of Fig. 55.
   First, as shown in part (a) of Fig. 55, all of the reels are rotated in the symbol display
15 area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141.        Then, as shown in part (b) of Fig.
   55, while all of the reels are being rotated, the four reels of all of the reels are stopped in
   the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display panel 141.           Next, as shown
   in part (c) of Fig. 55, it is assumed that, in a period of time from when the fifth reel was
   completely sunk down up to when the spinning was finished in the symbol display area
20 4 on the lower side image display panel 141, the SPIN button or the MAX BET button
   is pressed by a player.     Then, at the time point at which as shown in part (d) of Fig. 55,
   the fifth reel was stopped in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image display
   panel 141, as shown in part (e) of Fig. 55, the spinning of all of the reels is started at the
   fastest speed for the next game in the symbol display area 4 on the lower side image
25 display panel 141.     In the base game, only in the game in which no WIN occurs, the
   button look-ahead function is made active.         In addition, by making a setting on the
   AUDIT MENU, whether the button look-ahead function is active or inactive is changed.
   [0216]    [WIN Meter Information Display]
30          The button look-ahead specification in the slot machine 1 is as described above.
   Next, with reference to Fig. 56, a WIN meter information display in the slot machine 1
   will be described.    Fig. 56 is a diagram explaining the WIN meter information display
   in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
35 [0217]    As shown in Fig. 56, on the WIN meter 406, a WIN gross amount display area
                                                  55

   406A, a breakdown display area 406B, and a total display area 406C are provided.
   [0218]    In the WIN gross amount display area 406A, a WIN credit and a money
   amount are displayed.     When the increment is displayed, such increment complies with
 5 criteria in a win increment speed sheet.      In other words, in the WIN gross amount
   display area 406A, the number of credits won during the current game cycle (or the
   previous game cycle) is displayed.      When a plurality of credits are won during one
   game cycle, the credits are sequentially added.     For example, when the triggering of
   the free games occurs during the base game and a player obtains LINE WIN 20 and
10 SCATTER WIN 100, an increment display is conducted from "0" to "120".          Thereafter,
   when a player obtains a payout of "200" during the free games, the increment display is
   conducted from "120" to "320". When the next game cycle is started or losing in the
   GAMBLE occurs, "0" is displayed.         On the other hand, when winning occurs in the
   GAMBLE, the increment display is not conducted and a doubled amount is
15 instantaneously displayed.
   [0219]    The breakdown display area 406B is related to WIN during the base game and
   the free games.    After the fifth REEL has been stopped, the No. of WIN LINE and a
   WIN credit are displayed.       When a plurality of LINE payouts concurrently occur,
20 displaying is conducted by changing every 0.5 second.      The LINE payout is displayed
   in ascending order of the LINE Nos. and after the LINE payout having the largest WIN
   LINE No. has been displayed, the LINE payout is displayed again in ascending order of
   the LINE Nos.     In other words, in the breakdown display area 406, a breakdown of the
   credits won in the spinning conducted this time is displayed.          When there are a
25 plurality of elements (different lines or SCATTER), displaying is conducted by
   changing the display time unit to a unit of 0.5 second.       The order of changing the
   display time unit is from the SCATTER payout to the LINE payout (in ascending order
   of the LINE Nos.).
30 [0220]    In the total display area 406C, upon the completion of the increment in the
   WIN gross amount display area 406A, a total in the breakdown display area 406B is
   displayed.    However, until after the completion of the increment in the WIN gross
   amount display area 406A, no value is displayed in the total display area 406C.        In
   other words, in the total display area 406C, the total of the credits won in the spinning
35 conducted this time is displayed.      After having finishing the increment in the WIN
                                                56

   gross amount display area 406A, a total value is displayed therein.
   [0221]    [One Example of Control Panel]
            The WIN meter information display in the slot machine 1 is as described above.
 5 Next, with reference to Fig. 57, one example of a control panel specification in the slot
   machine 1 will be described.     Fig. 57 is a diagram illustrating the one example of the
   control panel specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the
   present invention.    In the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   inventions, instead of the control panel shown in Fig. 4, a control panel 460 shown in
10 Fig. 57 may be provided.
   [0222]    [GAMBLE Specification]
             The one example of the control panel specification in the slot machine 1 is as
   described above.     Next, with reference to Fig. 58 to 64, a GAMBLE specification in
15 the slot machine 1 will be described.     Fig. 58 is a diagram explaining the GAMBLE
   specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   [0223]   First, when WIN occurs, the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig.
   58 is changed to the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig. 59.         In other
20 words, a GAMBLE screen is displayed, and a message "PLAY ON, GAMBLE or TAKE
   WIN" is erased.      On the other hand, a message "SELECT RED OR BLACK OR
   TAKE WIN is displayed on the lower side image display panel 141.
   [0224]   Next, on the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig. 60, a bet
25 amount as a "GAMBLE AMOUNT" is displayed on the lower side image display panel
    141.  Here, a player selects "RED" or "BLACK".         When this selection is successful,
   the lower side image display panel 141 is changed to the lower side image display panel
    141 shown in Fig. 63 described later.       In contrast to this, when this selection is
   unsuccessful, the lower side image display panel 141 is changed to the lower side image
30 display panel 141 shown in Fig. 61.       When a player selects "TAKE WIN", on the
   lower side image display panel 141, a WIN value is immediately added to the credit,
   and an idling state returns.
   [0225]   When the player' s selection is unsuccessful, on thelower side image display
35 panel 141 shown in Fig. 61, a selection choice ("RED" or "BLACK") which has not
                                               57

   been selected becomes dark.      In addition, on the lower side image display panel 141
   shown in Fig. 61, on a leftmost portion of a "GAMBLE HISTORY" section, a history of
   the selected card is immediately displayed.     When there is a history of the previously
   selected card, the history of the previously selected card is shifted to the right by one
 5 space to be displayed.    For a trajectory of this shifting, the display is conducted with
   no animation, and rewriting is immediately conducted.        Further, a result of the central
   card is immediately displayed.     At this time point, however, the WIN meter and the
   GAMBLE AMOUNT meter do not change. Thereafter, chagrin sound is outputted,
   and 1.2 second after the outputting of the chagrin sound, as shown in Fig. 62, the lower
10 side image display panel 141 is switched to a MAIN GAME screen.             Upon switching
   to the MAIN GAME screen, concurrently, "0 is displayed in the WIN meter.
   [0226] When the player' s selection is successful, on the bwer side image display
   panel 141 shown in Fig. 63, a selection choice ("RED" or "BLACK") which has not
15 been selected becomes dark.      In addition, on the lower side image display panel 141
   shown in Fig. 63, on a leftmost portion of a "GAMBLE HISTORY" section, a history of
   the selected card is immediately displayed.     When there is a history of the previously
   selected card, the history of the previously selected card is shifted to the right by one
   space to be displayed.    For a trajectory of this shifting, the display is conducted with
20 no animation, and rewriting is immediately conducted.         Further, as a central card, a
   normal card and a card having a word WIN are alternately displayed on a one
   frame-by-one frame basis, and success sound is outputted for 1.2 second.        On the WIN
   meter, a value increased by the GAMBLE result is immediately added.            At this point,
   however, the GAMBLE AMOUNT meter does not change.
25
   [0227] Here, when the GAMBLE has been played at the upper limit number of times,
   a WIN value is immediately added to the credit, and the idling state returns. In
   contrast to this, when the GAMBLE has not been played at the upper limit number of
   times, the lower side image display panel 141 is changed to the lower side image
30 display panel 141 shown in Fig. 64.     On the lower side image display panel 141 shown
   in Fig. 64, the central card is displayed face down.      Thereafter, the lower side image
   display panel 141 is changed to the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig.
   60.
35 [0228]   On the MAIN GAME screen on the lower side image display panel 141 shown
                                                58

   in Fig. 58 and Fig. 62, to facilitate understanding, symbols which are different from the
   above-described symbols are also displayed.
   [0229]    [RESIDUAL GAMBLE]
 5          The GAMBLE specification in the slot machine 1 is as described above.      Next,
   with reference to Fig. 65 to Fig. 67, RESIDUAL GAMBLE in the slot machine 1 will be
   described.    Each of Fig. 65 to Fig. 67 is a diagram explaining the RESIDUAL
   GAMBLE in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   The RESIDUAL GAMBLE is conducted along a flow shown in Fig. 65 by using a table
10 shown in Fig. 66.     At this time, in one scene of the RESIDUAL GAMBLE, on the
   lower side image display panel 141, an image 501 shown in Fig. 67 is displayed.
   [0230]    [System Font Display Area]
             The RESIDUAL GAMBLE in the slot machine 1 is as described above.          Next,
15 with reference to Fig. 68, a system font display area in the slot machine 1 will be
   described.   Fig. 68 is a diagram illustrating the system font display area in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.         In the system font
   display area 502 shown in Fig. 68, a display area 502A of BET PER LINE and a display
   area 502B of a GAME state are provided.            The system font display area 502 is
20 allocated in the display area 407 for displaying the BET information and the game state
   on the lower side image display panel 141 (refer to Fig. 26).
   [0231]    [HELP Specification]
             The system font display area in the slot machine 1 is as described above.
25 Next, with reference to Fig. 69 and Fig. 70, a HELP specification in the slot machine 1
   will be described.    Each of Fig. 69 and Fig. 70 is a diagram explaining the HELP
   specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.
   As shown in Fig. 69, on the lower side image display panel 141 in the HELP
   specification, the HELP screen 413 and a message area 503 are secured, and the EXIT
30 touch button 414, the PREV. touch button 415, the NEXT touch button 416, and the
   DENOMI display area 412 are displayed.
   [0232]   In the message area 503, the display is conducted in the system font.         In
   addition, the message area 503 is linked with the control panel 30 or the control panel
35 460.    Accordingly, even when bet patterns are changed and values are changed,
                                                59

   switching to appropriate displays in accordance therewith is conducted.
   [0233]    As shown in the table in Fig. 70, when a player touches or presses down the
   EXIT touch button 414 or the HELP button on the control panel, the lower side image
 5 display panel 141 in the HELP specification shifts to the base game screen.        When a
   player touches or presses down the PREV. touch button 415 or a BETx 1 button on the
   control panel, the lower side image display panel 141 in the HELP specification shifts to
   the previous HELP page.      When a player touches or presses down the NEXT touch
   button 416 or a BETx2 button on the control panel, the lower side image display panel
10  141 in the HELP specification shifts to the next HELP page.
   [0234]    [Placement of Screen Touch Buttons]
             The HELP specification in the slot machine 1 is as described above.        Next,
   with reference to Fig. 71A to Fig. 73, placement of the screen touch buttons in the slot
15 machine 1 will be described.    Each of Fig. 71A to Fig. 73 is a diagram explaining the
   placement of the screen touch buttons in the slot machine according to the embodiment
   of the present invention.
   [0235]    Fig. 71A shows the placement of the screen touch buttons during IDLE.        Fig.
20 71B shows the placement of the screen touch buttons during HELP.          Fig. 71C shows
   the placement of the screen touch buttons during a game.            Fig. 71 D shows the
   placement of the screen touch buttons in a state of GAMBLE or TAKE WIN.           Fig. 72A
   shows the placement of the screen touch buttons during IDLE (with the language switch
   being inactive).    Fig. 72B shows the placement of the screen touch buttons during
25 HELP (with the language switch being inactive).     Fig. 72C shows the placement of the
   screen touch buttons during a game (with the language switch being inactive).          Fig.
   72D shows the placement of the screen touch buttons in a state of GAMBLE or TAKE
   WIN (the state in which the language switch is inactive).
30 [0236]    In the placement of the screen touch buttons in the slot machine 1, the HELP
   touch button 409, the language switch touch button 410, the sound volume switch touch
   button 411, the DENOMI display area 412, the EXIT touch button 414, the PREV. touch
   button 415, and the NEXT touch button 416 are placed.        In particular, in the state in
   which the language switch is inactive, during the game or in the state of GAMBLE or
35 TAKE WIN, as shown in Fig. 72C and 72D, a PAY TABLE touch button 504 is placed.
                                                60

   As shown in Fig. 73, these touch buttons are active when being lit up and inactive when
   lit down.
   [0237]    [Sound Volume Switch Touch Button]
 5           The placement of the screen touch buttons in the slot machine 1 is as described
   above.    Next, with reference to Fig. 74, the sound volume switch touch button 411 in
   the slot machine 1 will be described.       Fig. 74 is a diagram explaining the volume
   switch touch button in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the present
   invention.    As shown in Fig. 74, the sound volume switch touch button 411 has three
10 adjustment phases: in the first phase, a minimum sound volume is applied; in the second
   phase, a middle sound volume is applied; and in the third phase, a maximum sound
   volume is applied.     A default setting among the phases is the minimum sound volume
   in the first phase.  Each of the phases is shifted in a looped manner such that each time
   a player touches the sound volume switch touch button 411, the middle sound volume in
15 the second phase is applied; then, the maximum sound volume in the third phase is
   applied; then, the minimum sound volume in the first phase is applied; then, the middle
   sound volume in the second phase is applied; then, ...
   [0238]    [AUDIT National Flag Switch Setting Specification]
20           The sound volume switch touch button in the slot machine 1 is as described
   above.    Next, with reference to Fig. 75 to Fig. 78, an AUDIT national flag switch
   setting specification in the slot machine 1 will be described.  Each of Fig. 75 to Fig. 78
   is a diagram explaining the AUDIT national flag switch setting specification in the slot
   machine according to the embodiment of the present invention.      In the AUDIT national
25 flag switch setting specification in the slot machine according to the embodiment of the
   present invention, the designation of "national flag" displayed on the language switch
   touch button 410 upon switching a language can be conducted by making a setting on
   the AUDIT MENU on the lower side image display panel 141 shown in Fig. 75 to Fig.
   78.   As the "national flag" displayed on the language switch touch button 410, there
30 are national flags of US, UK, and CHN.
             Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
35 integers or steps.
                                                 61

            The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
   derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
 5 knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
   REFERENCE SIGNS LIST
   [0239]   1: slot machine
            3: video reels
10          3a: first video reel ("Reel 1")
            3b: second video reel ("Reel 2")
            3c: third video reel ("Reel 3")
            3d: fourth video reel ("Reel 4")
            3e: fifth video reel ("Reel 5")
15          4: symbol display area
            141: lower side image display panel
                                              62

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.       A slot machine comprising:
   a display for displaying a part of a plurality of video reel strips having different kinds of
 5 symbols arranged thereon;
   a value-addition mechanism by which a player is able to add to the slot machine gaming
   media to be bet;
   an award payout mechanism by which gaming media can be paid out to the player or
   credited to current credits of the player as an outcome of a slot game; and
10           a processor for causing the slot game including a base game and free games to
   proceed on the display;
   wherein the different kinds of symbols include: symbols of a first kind which result in
   winning when the number of the symbols of the first kind displayed on the display is
   greater than or equal to a predetermined number, and symbols of a second kind which
15 result in winning when a combination of the symbols of the second kind arranged on an
   activated line matches a predetermined combination,
   wherein the symbols of the second kind include top symbols whose payout are the
   highest, and
   wherein the processor is programmed to execute, as a result of the player having bet
20 gaming media, processes (A) to (D) described below.
             (A) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the first kind
   occurs, the slot game shifts to a free game.
   (B) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the second kind occurs,
   a payout in accordance with a number of the arranged symbols is provided.
25 (C) A process in which upon causing the base game to proceed, used are base game reel
   strips on which on all of the plurality of video reel strips, the symbols of the second
   kind are arranged in succession, and the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a
   one-by-one basis.
             (D) A process in which upon causing the free games to proceed, used are free
30 game reel strips on which on all of the plurality of video reel strips, the symbols of the
   second kind are arranged in succession, the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a
   one-by-one basis, and a larger number of the top symbols than the number of the top
   symbols displayed on the base game reel strips are arranged in succession.
35 2.        A slot machine comprising:
                                                 63

   a display for displaying a part of a plurality of video reel strips on which a plurality
   of kinds of symbols including wild symbols, feature symbols, and top symbols
   enabling a larger award to be obtained than an award obtained by a combination of
   other symbols when the award is obtained;
 5 a value-addition mechanism by which a player is able to add to the slot machine
   gaming media to be bet;
   an award payout mechanism by which gaming media can be paid out to the player or
   credited to current credits of the player as an outcome of a slot game; and
             a processor for causing the slot game to proceed on the display, the slot
10 game including a base game and free games triggered when in the base game, a
   predetermined combination of the feature symbols is displayed on the display;
   wherein the different kinds of symbols include: symbols of a first kind which result in
   winning when the number of the symbols of the first kind displayed on the display is
   greater than or equal to a predetermined number, and symbols of a second kind which
15 result in winning when a combination of the symbols of the second kind arranged on an
   activated line matches a predetermined combination,
   wherein the symbols of the second kind include top symbols whose payout are the
   highest, and
   wherein the processor is programmed to execute, as a result of the player having bet
20 gaming media, processes (A) to (D) described below.
             (A) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the first kind
   occurs, the slot game shifts to a free game.
   (B) A process in which when the winning by the symbols of the second kind occurs,
   a payout in accordance with a number of the arranged symbols is provided.
25           (C) A process in which upon causing the base game to proceed, used are base
   game reel strips on which the symbols of the second kind are arranged in succession,
   and the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a one-by-one basis.
             (D) A process in which upon causing the free games to proceeds, used are free
   game reel strips on which the symbols of the second kind are arranged in succession,
30 the symbols of the first kind are dispersed on a one-by-one basis, and a larger number of
   the top symbols than the number of the top symbols displayed on the base game reel
   strips are arranged in succession.
   3.        The slot machine according to claim 2, wherein the processor
35           (C) extracts the same payout table in the base game and the feature games
                                                64

   based on a display result of a plurality of video reel strips displayed on the display,
   and
             (D) determines the payout based on a value by which an amount of one bet
   is multiplied and based on an amount of bets actually placed, the value being
 5 predetermined by the payout table.
   4.        The slot machine according to claim 2, wherein the processor
             (E) causes a prize enabling shifting to a feature game to occur when a
   number of feature symbols displayed on the display reaches a predetermined number
10 or more or when a total of the number of said feature symbols and a number of the
   wild symbols reaches a predetermined number or more, and
             (F) causes a prize, when predetermined symbols other than the feature
   symbols are arranged, on the display, on a winning line which is set over a plurality
   of reels, based on a number of the arranged symbols to occur,
15           on the base game reel strips defined to be used as the respective plurality of
   video reel strips, the wild symbols and the feature symbols, included in symbols
   arranged on a single reel of the base game reel strips and displayed on the display,
   are arranged such that each of a total of the number of the feature symbols and a
   number of newly resulting feature symbols with which the wild symbols are replaced
20 and the number of only the feature symbols not including the wild symbols is less
   than a predetermined set succession number of other symbols whose kind is one kind
   and which are arranged in succession, and
             on the base game reel strips, symbols which differ from the feature symbols
   triggering the feature game and cause a prize to occur based on a kind of a
25 combination of the symbols displayed on the winning line and whose number is the
   predetermined set succession number or more are arranged in succession.
   5.        The slot machine according to claim 4, wherein when the single reel of the
   base game reel strips has been stopped, the wild symbols and the feature symbols are
30 arranged on the single reel of the base game reel strips such that
             when symbols displayed on the display include the wild symbols and the
   feature symbols, the total of the feature symbols and the newly resulting feature
   symbols with which the wild symbols are replaced is less than the predetermined set
   succession number, and
35           when the symbols displayed on the display do not include the wild symbols,
                                              65

a number of the feature symbols displayed on the display is less than the
predetermined set succession number.
                                     66

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
