                                         ABSTRACT
  A liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt, including particulate rubber
  derived from recycled vehicle tyres, an emulsion or solution polymerised polymer for
  increasing elasticity of the particulate rubber, a toner mix, calcium carbonate;
5 bitumen; and a plant-based oil performing as an anti-odour agent to negate sulfurous
  odour. The particulated rubber is separated from fabric and metal tyre components, the
  particulated rubber is liquefied by heating and mixed with the remaining constituents
  to form a liquefied bitumen composition ready for mixing with aggregate to form an
  asphalt mix.
                                               12

                                 RECYCLED COMPOSITION
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   This invention relates to a recycled composition. More particularly, this invention
   relates to a recycled composition for road surfaces. Still more particularly, this
 5 invention relates to a recycled product for use as a binder and odour neutral
   composition in a road surface formulation.
   BACKGROUND ART
   The following references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
   intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of common
10 general knowledge in the art. In particular, the following prior art discussion does not
   relate to what is commonly or well known by the person skilled in the art, but assists
   in the understanding of the inventive step of the present invention of which the
   identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but one part.
   Recycled products for use in road surfaces have been described in which ground
15 motor vehicle tyres have been deployed as a component of the road surface
   formulation. However, pungent odours that may be injurious to health or, at the least,
   a cause of road worker respiratory discomfort, make the use of recycled rubber
   problematic.
   An object of the present invention is to ameliorate the aforementioned disadvantages
20 of the prior art or to at least provide a useful alternative thereto.
   STATEMENT OF INVENTION
   The invention according to one or more aspects is as defined in the independent
   claims. Some optional and/or preferred features of the invention are defined in the
   dependent claims.
25 Accordingly, in one aspect of the invention there is provided:
   A liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including:
         particulate rubber derived from vehicle tyres;

          a polymer for increasing elasticity of the particulate rubber;
          a carbon powder toner mix;
          a hardener mineral;
          bitumen; and
 5        an anti-odour agent to negate sulfurous odour,
          wherein the particulated rubber is liquefied by heating and mixed with the
          remaining constituents to form a liquefied bitumen product ready for mixing
          with aggregate to form asphalt.
   In another aspect, the invention provides:
10 A liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including:
          particulate rubber derived from recycled vehicle tyres;
          an emulsion or solution polymerised polymer for increasing elasticity of the
          particulate rubber;
          a toner mix;
15        calcium carbonate;
          bitumen; and
          a plant-based oil performing as an anti-odour agent to negate sulfurous odour,
          wherein the particulated rubber is separated from fabric and metal tyre
          components, the particulated rubber is liquefied by heating and mixed with the
20        remaining constituents to form a liquefied bitumen composition ready for
          mixing with aggregate to form an asphalt mix.
   In still another aspect of the invention, there is provided:
   A method of making a liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including the
   following steps:
25        obtaining particulate rubber from recycled tyres, including grinding the tyres and
          the separating the rubber component from other fabric and metal constituents of
                                                 2

          the tyre;
           delivering a batch of the rubber particulate component to a hopper and
          subsequently to a vat heated to 170 - 210 C, involving liquefying the heated
          rubber component;
  5       gradually adding a polymer thickener, toner powder, hydrated lime and a plant
          based essential oil in the heated vat;
          and mixing the liquefied rubber mix together with about 10001 (1250kg) of
          bitumen to produce the composition; and
          allowing the composition to cool to about 150 - 170'C.
 10 In yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided:
    A method of making a liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including the
    following steps:
          obtaining particulate rubber from recycled tyres, including grinding the tyres and
          the separating the rubber component from other fabric and metal constituents of
15        the tyre;
          delivering a batch of the rubber particulate component to a hopper and
          subsequently to a vat heated to 190 - 200'C, involving liquefying the heated
          rubber component;
          gradually adding solution polymerized styrene-butadiene rubber, toner powder,
20        hydrated lime and Geraniol oil in the heated vat;
          and mixing the liquefied rubber mix together with bitumen to produce the
          composition; and
          allowing the composition to cool to about 160 - 170'C.
    Rubber
25  The rubber is preferably derived from used vehicle road tyres. The rubber is
    preferably separated from the other tyre components, such as fabric, wire and steel
    ribbon. The tyres are comminuted, ground down or otherwise particulated, and the
                                                  3

   non-rubber constituents separated out. The isolated particulated rubber material is
   subjected to heat to liquefy same in a hot melt. The temperature of the melt is
   preferably between 150 - 210 C, still more preferably between 160 - 200'C, and most
   preferably 190 - 200 0 C. Once the entire rubber-bitumen composition is completed,
 5 ready for transport to a road laying site, the composition may be permitted to cool by
   about 20 - 25%, maintaining a melt temperature of about 150 - 160'C, and providing
   an effective liquefied composition or mix ready for mixing with aggregate to form
   asphalt.
   The percentage by weight range of the rubber as a constituent of the composition is
10 about 10 - 20%, and preferably about 12 - 18%, depending on the properties required
   of the ultimate asphalt product and the particular properties of the rubber used in any
   instance. For example, the rubber may depend on the type and brand of tyres used as
   the source of rubber, and may be in the range of soft tyre rubber or harder tyre rubber.
   The hardness of the rubber determines the temperature required to liquefy the rubber,
15 with a softer rubber allowing the rubber to be liquefied at a lower temperature but
   requiring more rubber to be used to provide the wet rubber mix required.
   The rubber hardness may be measure by the standard Shore A hardness. A soft tyre
   rubber may have a hardness of about Shore 55A, whereas a hard rubber tyre may have
   a hardness rated at Shore 70A, and tyres may have intermediate hardness of anywhere
20 between Shore 55A - 70A.
   Polymer
   The polymer may be an emulsion rubber resin. The polymer may be an emulsion
   polymerized rubber, such as styrene-butadiene rubber. The polymer may be an
   acrylonitrile-butadiene rubber. The polymer is preferably a solution polymerized
25 styrene-butadiene rubber. A suitable, commercially available polymer is Europrene
   solTM. The polymer improves the elasticity of the liquefied or molten particulated or
   crumbed rubber component. The preferred range of the polymer by weight in the
   composition is about 1.2 - 2%, and the particular proportion of the polymer used in
   each case is determined by the inherent elasticity properties of the particulated rubber
                                                 4

   used in any particular case and the requirements of the particular application, i.e. the
   physical properties required of the asphalt end product.
   Toner
   The toner is the standard fine dry mix of plastic particles and carbon used in toner
 5 cartridges for laser printers and photocopiers. The toner is preferably a powder used
   in laser printers and photocopiers to form the printed text and images on the paper. It
   is typically a mix of carbon powder and iron oxide, in which the carbon is melt-mixed
   with a polymer. The toner operates as a thickener [that affects the grade of asphalt. It
   is used to vary the grade of asphalt between classes 170, 320, 400, 600, and most
10 preferably Classes 170 and 320. The toner may be used to thicken the mix to improve
   the durability and thickness for better adherence to aggregate in the ultimate asphalt
   product. Preferably, the toner is included in the composition in the range of 0.2 - 0.7%
   by weight.
   Hardener
15 The hardener is used to vary the hardness of the composition and the ultimate asphalt
   product for different climatic conditions and pavement properties. Hard pavement
   may require a hardener component of up to 2%, e.g. in Saudi Arabian asphalt
   compositions where road temperatures can reach 95 - 100'C. In Russia, where road
   temperatures can be as low as -35 - -40'C and can rise to 75'C, a lower hardener
20 component of 1.2% by weight is preferred. The composition may comprise calcium
   carbonate in the range of 1.2 - 2% by weight.
   Bitumen
   The composition preferably includes Class 170 or 320 residual bitumen in a
   proportion range of 77 - 86% by weight in the composition, and preferably in the
25 range 77.3   - 85.4% by weight.
   Anti-Odour Agen
   The anti-odour agent may be a masking or neutralising agent, whereby the smell
   detectable by the human olfactory caused by sulphur-derived airborne fumes or
   particles is neutralised. Plant based essential oils capable of wetting the composition
                                                 5

   and negating the smell may be used. A particularly preferred plant-based essential oil
   is Geraniol oil because it is both effective to negate the sulfurous odour derived from
   the rubber melt and is cost effective. The proportions of the anti-odour agent in the
   composition may vary between 0.03 - 1.0% by weight, preferably 0.07 - 0.3%, and
 5 most preferably about 0.1% by weight, or about 11 in every 10001 of composition.
   Composition
   In producing the ultimate asphalt product, it is generally accepted that a product
   having more than 8% bitumen composition by weight results in a road surface that is
   too shiny and slippery and not acceptable to road authorities. However, a composition
10 proportion that is too low (less than 7%) will generally result in unacceptable
   aggregate segregation. It has been found that the current composition formulation
   permits a lesser proportion of composition to be used because the liquefied rubber mix
   improves the binding performance of the composition. Accordingly, the preferred
   range of the composition by weight in the ultimate asphalt mix is between 6 - 7%, still
15 more preferably 6.1 - 6.3%.
   Moreover, use of the liquefied rubber component improves performance of a road
   surface prepared using the composition by virtually eliminating hydro-absorption of
   water in the asphalt mix. Whereas a typical asphalt mix may absorb 200ml of water in
   a 600mm core sample over a 2 week period, asphalt made using the composition of
20 the invention results in negligible water absorption. Water absorption is considered an
   important deleterious factor in road surface deterioration due to the hydraulic
   destructive effect of vehicle tyres compressing a road surface full of water as a vehicle
   passes over, thereby hydraulically causing the break-up of the asphalt layer.
   Moreover, the hydrophobic nature of the composition and ultimate asphalt product has
25 the effect of improving water run off, such that the passage of vehicles thereover
   causes less wheel spray.
   The presence of a high proportion of rubber material in the ultimate asphalt product
   also reduces road noise.
   EXAMPLE
                                                 6

   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
   reference to one or more examples. However, it is to be understood that the features
   illustrated in and described herein are not to be construed as limiting on the scope of
   the invention, except as may be recited in the claims accompanying this specification.
 5 Example 1
   A test sample of liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt was produced as
   follows. Particulate rubber was derived from recycled Bridgestone T M tyres having a
   hardness rating of Shore 70A. The tyres were ground and the rubber component
   separate from other fabric and metal constituents of the tyre. A 250kg batch of the
10 rubber particulate component was delivered to a 10001 hopper and subsequently to a
   10,0001 vat heated to 190 - 200'C. The heated rubber component liquefied and
   gradually about 201 (25kg) of Europrene solTM, 7.5kg of toner, 25kg of hydrated lime
   and about 21 (2.5kg) of Geraniol oil, were added and mixed together with about 10001
   (1250kg) of bitumen oil to produce a composition according to one embodiment of the
15 invention.
   The composition was then permitted to cool to 170'C and maintained at that
   temperature in a liquid emulsion until transferred to a 25T capacity transport mixer
   where it was slowly mixed with about 23,500kg of aggregate comprising a standard
   mix of crushed rock (granite in particle sizes of between about 7 - 20mm
20 (predominantly 10 - 14mm), washed and quarry sand (predominantly quarry sand),
   and granite and silica dust.
   The resultant 25T asphalt mix was laid and set to form a road surface. Whilst laying
   the hot asphalt mix, the Applicant observed that no unpleasant odour was detectable.
   A 600mm core sample was taken 3 weeks after installation and tested for moisture
25 content. There was no moisture content detected in the sample.
   The sample was tested for aggregate segregation and the rate was found to be 0.32%
   by weight.
   The sample was manually observed for sulphurous odour presence and this could not
   be detected.
                                                7

   Example 2
   A test sample of liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt was produced as
   follows. Particulate rubber was derived from recycled PirelliTM tyres having a
   hardness rating of Shore 60A. The tyres were ground and the rubber component
 5 separate from other fabric and metal constituents of the tyre. A 200kg batch of the
   rubber particulate component was delivered to a 10001 hopper and subsequently to a
   10,0001 vat heated to 190 - 200'C. The heated rubber component liquefied and
   gradually about 161 (20kg) of Europrene solTM, 10kg of toner, 30kg of hydrated lime
   and about 11 (1.25kg) of Geraniol oil, were added and mixed together with about 9001
10 (1110kg) of bitumen oil to produce a composition according to another embodiment
   of the invention.
   The composition was then permitted to cool to 160'C and maintained at that
   temperature in a liquid emulsion until transferred to a 25T capacity transport mixer
   where it was slowly mixed with about 23,500kg of aggregate comprising a standard
15 mix of crushed rock (granite in particle sizes of between about 7 - 20mm
   (predominantly 10 - 14mm), washed and quarry sand (predominantly quarry sand),
   and granite and silica dust.
   The resultant 25T asphalt mix was laid and set to form a road surface. Whilst laying
   the hot asphalt mix, the Applicant observed that no unpleasant odour was detectable.
20 A 600mm core sample was taken 3 weeks after installation and tested for moisture
   content. There was no moisture content detected in the sample.
   The sample was tested for aggregate segregation and the rate was found to be 0.36%
   by weight.
   The sample was manually observed for sulphurous odour presence and this could not
25 be detected.
   Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its derivatives are
   intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning unless the contrary is
   expressly stated or the context requires otherwise. That is, the word "comprise" and
   its derivatives will be taken to indicate the inclusion of not only the listed components,
                                                 8

   steps or features that it directly references, but also other components, steps or
   features not specifically listed, unless the contrary is expressly stated or the context
   requires otherwise.
   In the present specification, terms such as "apparatus", "means", "device" and
 5 "member" may refer to singular or plural items and are terms intended to refer to a set
   of properties, functions or characteristics performed by one or more items or
   components having one or more parts. It is envisaged that where an "apparatus",
   "means", "device" or "member" or similar term is described as being a unitary object,
   then a functionally equivalent object having multiple components is considered to fall
10 within the scope of the term, and similarly, where an "apparatus", "assembly",
   "means", "device" or "member" is described as having multiple components, a
   functionally equivalent but unitary object is also considered to fall within the scope of
   the term, unless the contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise.
   Orientational terms used in the specification and claims such as vertical, horizontal,
15 top, bottom, upper and lower are to be interpreted as relational and are based on the
   premise that the component, item, article, apparatus, device or instrument will usually
   be considered in a particular orientation, which will generally be apparent from the
   context.
   It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and variations
20 may be made to the methods of the invention described herein without departing from
   the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                                  9

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.     A liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including:
         particulate rubber derived from vehicle tyres;
         a polymer for increasing elasticity of the particulate rubber;
 5       a carbon powder toner mix;
         a hardener mineral;
         bitumen; and
         an anti-odour agent to negate sulfurous odour,
         wherein the particulated rubber is liquefied by heating and mixed with the
10       remaining constituents to form a liquefied bitumen product ready for mixing
         with aggregate to form asphalt.
   2.      A liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt including:
         particulate rubber derived from recycled vehicle tyres;
         an emulsion or solution polymerised polymer for increasing elasticity of the
15       particulate rubber;
         a toner mix;
         calcium carbonate;
         bitumen; and
         a plant-based oil performing as an anti-odour agent to negate sulfurous odour,
20       wherein the particulated rubber is separated from fabric and metal tyre
         components, the particulated rubber is liquefied by heating and mixed with the
         remaining constituents to form a liquefied bitumen composition ready for
         mixing with aggregate to form an asphalt mix.
   3.      A method of making a liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt
25 including the following steps:
         obtaining particulate rubber from recycled tyres, including grinding the tyres and
                                               10

          the separating the rubber component from other fabric and metal constituents of
          the tyre;
          delivering a batch of the rubber particulate component to a hopper and
          subsequently to a vat heated to 170 - 210 C, involving liquefying the heated
  5       rubber component;
          gradually adding a polymer thickener, toner powder, hydrated lime and a plant
         based essential oil in the heated vat;
          and mixing the liquefied rubber mix together with about 10001 (1250kg) of
         bitumen to produce the composition; and
10       allowing the composition to cool to about 150 - 170'C.
    4.     A method of making a liquefied rubber bitumen composition for asphalt
    including the following steps:
         obtaining particulate rubber from recycled tyres, including grinding the tyres and
         the separating the rubber component from other fabric and metal constituents of
15       the tyre;
         delivering a batch of the rubber particulate component to a hopper and
         subsequently to a vat heated to 190 - 200'C, involving liquefying the heated
         rubber component;
         gradually adding solution polymerized styrene-butadiene rubber, toner powder,
20       hydrated lime and Geraniol oil in the heated vat;
         and mixing the liquefied rubber mix together with bitumen to produce the
         composition; and
         allowing the composition to cool to about 160 - 170'C.
                                                11

