   Abstract
   Vehicle charging arrangement
 5 A vehicle charging arrangement 10 comprises a first vehicle charging connector 12
   and a second vehicle charging connector 13, one of the first and second vehicle
   charging connectors 12, 13 being mountable to a vehicle 200 and the other of the first
   and second vehicle charging connectors being mountable to a charging gantry 210, the
   first vehicle charging connector 12 comprising a first elongate conductor 16 and a
10 second elongate conductor 18, each of the first and second elongate conductors 16, 18
   having a contact area with a proximal end close to the other conductor and a distal end
   further from the other conductor, the first and second elongate conductors 16, 18
   being disposed parallel to each other and spaced from each other in a direction
   parallel with longitudinal axes of the conductors 16, 18, the contact area (46) of the
15 second elongate conductor 18 having a longitudinal extent which is shorter than a
   longitudinal extent of the contact area of the first elongate conductor 16, and the
   second vehicle charging connector         14   comprising third and fourth elongate
   conductors 32, 34, the third and fourth elongate conductors 32, 34 having longitudinal
   axes running parallel with each other, and the third and fourth elongate conductors 32,
20 34 being spaced from each other in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axes
   of the third and fourth elongate conductors 32, 34, the spacing between the third and
   fourth elongate conductors 32, 34 being greater than the distance between the distal
   end of the contact area (46) of the second conductor 18 and the proximal end of the
   contact area of the first conductor 16, and being shorter than the distance between the
25 proximal end of the second elongate conductor 18 and the distal end of the first
   elongate conductor 16.
   See Figure 1.
                                               17

  IC
         NJj
      0o
II  u
     /C

   Vehicle charging connectors
   The present invention relates to vehicle charging connectors.
 5 Background to the Invention
   Electric vehicles, and in particular electric buses, are known. Electric buses offer the
   potential of urban public transport which is quieter and less polluting than buses
   powered by diesel engines, improving the air quality and level of noise in city centres.
10 However, various practical problems have prevented widespread adoption of electric
   vehicle technology.
   Some electric vehicles, such as trams, receive power directly from an electrical grid,
   for example by overhead lines. However, installing tram systems requires a great deal
15 of initial investment, and once installed the route of a tram cannot easily be altered.
   Electric buses avoid these problems by storing power in batteries carried on the bus.
   These batteries must be regularly charged.
   One method of charging batteries in an electric bus involves the use of an overhead
20 charging gantry, having conductors which deliver power through receiving conductors
   mounted to the roof of the bus. One such arrangement is disclosed in GB2475703. In
   this arrangement, two movable pantographs are provided on the roof of the bus, one
   behind the other.    The pantographs can be moved upwards from the bus to meet
   charging conductors on a charging gantry, to charge the batteries of the bus.
25
   When charging a vehicle, it is known to provide a "pilot" connection for allowing
   communication between the charger and the vehicle being charged.              The pilot
   connection is used to test, among other things, continuity of the charging conductors
   before charging begins.
30
   Although the above-described charging arrangement is designed to allow for a certain
   amount of tolerance in the position of the vehicle, it is possible for the vehicle to be
   parked at the very edge of its tolerance. In this state, the charging conductors on the
   charger would be electrically connected to the receiving conductors on the vehicle,
                                                 1

   but the connection may not be sound enough to effect safe charging at high current.
   There may be only a small area of contact between a charging conductor and its
   respective charge receiving member.         However, this will not be apparent when
   performing a low-current test using a pilot connector. If charging begins when the
 5 connection is poor, there is a risk of overheating, damage to equipment, and possibly
   fire.
   A further problem with the charging arrangement of GB2475703 is that it relies on
   moving parts to engage and disengage the vehicle from the charging station. If the
10 pantographs on the roof of the bus cannot be moved for some reason, for example,
   due to failure of a power supply, motor, or control electronics, then the bus cannot be
   moved out of the charging station without causing damage to components.
   It is an object of the invention to reduce or substantially obviate the above-mentioned
15 problems.
   Statement of Invention
   A vehicle charging arrangement comprising first and second connectors, one
20 connector being mountable to a vehicle and the other connector being mountable to a
   charging gantry,
            the first connector comprising first and second elongate conductors, each of
   the first and second elongate conductors having a contact with a proximal end close to
   the other conductor and a distal end further from the other conductor, the first and
25 second elongate conductors being longitudinally spaced and disposed parallel or in
   line with each other,
            the contact of the second elongate conductor having a longitudinal extent
   which is shorter than a longitudinal extent of the contact of the first elongate
   conductor, and
30          the second connector comprising third and fourth elongate conductors, the
   third and fourth elongate conductors having longitudinal axes running parallel with
   each other, and the third and fourth elongate conductors being spaced from each other
   in a direction perpendicular to their longitudinal axes,
                                                2

           the spacing between the third and fourth elongate conductors being greater
   than the distance between the distal end of the contact of the second elongate
   conductor and the proximal end of the contact of the first elongate conductor, and
   being shorter than the distance between the proximal end of the contact of the second
 5 elongate conductor and the distal end of the contact of the first elongate conductor.
   The spacing between the third and fourth elongate conductors may be greater than the
   distance between the distal end of the contact of the second conductor and the
   proximal end of the contact of the first conductor by a margin of at least 2.5cm,
10 preferably at least 5cm. Likewise, the spacing between the third and fourth elongate
   conductors may be shorter than the distance between the proximal end of the contact
   of the second elongate conductor and the distal end of the contact of the first elongate
   conductor by a margin of at least 2.5cm, preferably 5cm.
15 In use, the first elongate conductor of the first connector may contact the third
   elongate conductor of the second connector, and the second elongate conductor of the
   first connector may contact the fourth elongate conductor of the second connector.
   The position and shorter extent of the second elongate conductor ensures that a
20 connection will only be made by the second elongate conductor when a strong and
   stable connection is made by the first elongate conductor.           If the first elongate
   conductor is positioned such that it is only in contact with the third elongate conductor
   at its very edge, then the second elongate conductor will not contact the fourth
   elongate conductor at all. An electrical connection can only be made between the
25 second and fourth elongate conductors when the first vehicle charging connector is
   positioned with respect to the second vehicle charging connector such that the first
   elongate conductor is in contact with the third elongate conductor at a point inward of
   either end of the first elongate conductor. In this position, a maximum contact area
   will be realised, ensuring maximum conductivity. This position, inward of the ends,
30 also ensures a degree of tolerance to any movement of the connector during the
   charging process.
   The first elongate conductor may be adapted to provide a high power connection with
   the third elongate conductor, and the second elongate conductor may be adapted to
                                                3

   provide a low power connection with the fourth elongate conductor. For example, the
   first and third elongate conductors may provide a connection for power transfer to
   charge batteries, whilst the second and fourth elongate conductors may provide an
   earth or pilot connection.
 5
   The first connector may be mountable to a vehicle and the second connector may be
   mountable to a charging gantry. Alternatively the first connector may be mountable to
   a charging gantry and the second connector may be mountable to a vehicle. Either
   way, the elongate conductors of the first connector are preferably substantially
10 perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle, and the conductors of the second
   connector are preferably substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle,
   when the charging arrangement is in use and the vehicle is receiving a charge.
   In this way, the charging arrangement provides a reasonable degree of forward
15 backward and sideways tolerance, so that a driver can park a vehicle under a charging
   gantry and initiate charging quickly. When the second and fourth elongate conductors
   (possibly a pilot connection) are connected, the first elongate conductor is guaranteed
   to be mated with the third elongate conductor inward of its edge, so that a good stable
   connection is formed.
20
   The charging gantry may be an overhead charging gantry and one of the connectors
   may be mounted to a vehicle roof.
   Most preferably the first connector is mounted to a vehicle roof and the second
25 connector is mounted to a charging gantry. This arrangement is preferable, since the
   first connector can be readily embodied in a lightweight form, to increase the
   operating efficiency of the vehicle.
   The first vehicle connector may further comprise fifth and sixth elongate conductors,
30         each of the fifth and sixth elongate conductors having a contact with a
   proximal end close to the other of the fifth and sixth conductors and a distal end
   further from the other of the fifth and sixth conductors,
           the contact of the sixth elongate conductor having a longitudinal extent which
   is shorter than a longitudinal extent of the contact area of the fifth elongate conductor,
                                                4

           the fifth and sixth elongate conductors running parallel with the first and
   second elongate conductors, and
           the second connector further comprising seventh and eighth elongate
   conductors, the seventh and eighth elongate conductors having longitudinal axes
 5 running parallel with each other,
           the seventh and eighth elongate conductors being spaced from each other in a
   direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of the seventh and eighth elongate
   conductors,
           the spacing between the seventh and eighth elongate conductors being greater
10 than the distance between the distal end of the contact of the sixth conductor and the
   proximal end of the contact of the fifth conductor, and being shorter than the distance
   between the proximal end of the contact of the sixth elongate conductor and the distal
   end of the contact of the fifth elongate conductor.
15 In other words, the arrangement of first, second, third and fourth elongate conductors
   may be repeated to make a total of four elongate conductors on each of two
   connectors. The arrangement may be repeated with the duplicate arrangements one
   behind the other. The appropriate arrangement in a given scenario will depend on the
   dimensions of the vehicle and space available on the roof, any restrictions on the
20 charging gantry in terms of height and size, and so on.
   The first and third elongate conductors may be used to provide a positive charging
   connection; the second and fourth elongate conductors may be used to provide a pilot
   connection; the fifth and seventh elongate conductors may be used to provide a
25 negative charging connection; and the sixth and eighth elongate conductors may be
   used to provide a ground connection.
   When continuity is successfully detected between the pilot and ground connections,
   good positive and negative charging connections can be guaranteed.
30
   The first and second elongate conductors may be disposed along the same line as each
   other. Where provided, the fifth and sixth elongate conductors may also be disposed
   along the same line as each other. An insulator may be provided between the first and
   second elongate conductors, and an insulator may be provided between the fifth and
                                               5

   sixth elongate conductors. In this way, the first and second elongate conductors with
   an insulator may form a continuous bar, and the fifth and sixth conductors with an
   insulator may for another continuous bar. However, it is also envisaged that, as an
   alternative, an air gap may be provided between the first and second conductors,
 5 and/or between the fifth and sixth conductors.
   Either the vehicle-mounted connector or the gantry-mounted connector may be
   movable, whichever of the first and second connectors is the vehicle-mounted
   connector. The other connector may be mounted to the vehicle or charging gantry in
10 a fixed position. In use, whichever connector is movable may be moved to meet the
   connector which is fixed.
   Most preferably, both of the first and second connectors are movable and, in use,
   move towards each other to meet each other. This has the advantage that, if either of
15 the two moving mechanisms should fail for any reason, then the vehicle will not be
   trapped in the charging gantry, since it can come free by moving whichever moving
   mechanism is not broken or faulty.
   At least one movably mountable connector may be movable substantially in an arc, on
20 a pivoting arm, between a retracted position and an extended position.
   The pivoting connector in the extended position may be biased towards the extended
   position, but pivotable towards the retracted position on application of a force to the
   connector. In this way, a vehicle can escape from a charging gantry even when the
25 moving mechanism of the movable connector has failed, and the other connector is
   mounted in a fixed position or has also failed. In this situation, where the pivoting
   connector is fitted to the vehicle, the vehicle may be driven in a direction with the
   point where the pivoting arm is mounted to the vehicle being forward-most, and with
   the elongate conductors trailing behind.     If the pivoting connector is part of the
30 charging gantry, then the vehicle may be driven out of the gantry in a direction with
   the elongate conductors forward-most, and with the pivoting arm trailing behind.
                                              6

   The contact of the second elongate conductor and, where provided, the sixth elongate
   conductor, may be vertically offset from the contact of the first and fifth elongate
   conductors respectively.
 5 The fourth and, where provided, the eighth elongate conductor may be biased towards
   a rest position, and may be movable out of the rest position in a direction
   perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the fourth elongate conductor and also
   perpendicular to the spacing between the third and fourth elongate conductors.
10 A biased and movable fourth (and/or eighth) conductor ensures that the pilot and
   ground connections are made first, before the high power charging connections. This
   feature also ensures that a good connection can be made where the first and second
   conductors do not form a completely straight line, and/or when the fifth and sixth
   conductors do not form a completely straight line, possibly because some of the
15 conductors have become damaged. Furthermore, the biased and movable conductor
   provides for a good connection with the charging gantry when the vehicle is parked
   on a sideways slope.
   A contact of the fourth elongate conductor may be shorter than a contact of the third
20 elongate conductor, and the contacts of the third and fourth elongate conductors may
   be disposed side-by-side, both ends of the contact of the fourth elongate conductor
   being located inwardly of the ends of the contact of the third elongate conductor.
   The contacts of the third and fourth elongate conductors may have elongate extents
25 substantially parallel with the third and fourth conductors themselves.
   In the same way that the shorter contact of the second conductor ensures a good
   connection of the first and third conductors at the sideways extreme of the parking
   tolerance of the charging arrangement, a shorter contact of the fourth conductor
30 ensures a good connection of the first and third conductors at the lengthways extreme
   of the parking tolerance of the charging arrangement.
   Where an eighth elongate conductor is provided, a contact of the eighth elongate
   conductor may likewise be shorter than a contact of the seventh elongate conductor.
                                                7

   The fourth and, where provided, eighth elongate conductor may have a width
   perpendicular to its longitudinal axis and parallel with the spacing between the third
   and fourth elongate conductors which is smaller than a corresponding width of the
 5 third and, where provided, seventh elongate conductor.
   The third elongate conductor may be separated from the seventh elongate conductor
   by a first insulator, and the fourth elongate conductor may be separated from the
   eighth elongate conductor by a second insulator. In this way, the second connector
10 may comprise of a pair of parallel bars, one bar including the third elongate
   conductor, the first insulator and the seventh elongate conductor, and the other bar
   including the fourth elongate conductor, the second insulator and the eighth elongate
   conductor.
15 The second insulator may have a length parallel with the third, fourth, seventh and
   eighth elongate conductors which is longer than a corresponding length of the first
   insulator, thus providing for shorter fourth and eighth conductors with their ends
   inward of the third and seventh conductors as described above.
20 An outer surface of at least one of the first and second insulators may be set inwardly
   of outer surfaces of the third, fourth, seventh and eighth elongate conductors which
   mount the contacts of the respective conductors. In this way, a contact surface of the
   second vehicle charging connector may have an inset insulating portion.
25 According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a vehicle
   charging connector comprising a first elongate conductor and a second elongate
   conductor, each of the first and second elongate conductors having a contact with a
   proximal end close to the other conductor and a distal end further from the other
   conductor, the first and second elongate conductors being longitudinally spaced and
30 disposed parallel or in-line with each other, the contact of the second elongate
   conductor having a longitudinal extent which is shorter than a longitudinal extent of
   the contact of the first elongate conductor.
                                                8

   Preferable and/or optional features of the second aspect of the invention are set out in
   appended claims 30 to 47.
   According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a vehicle charging
 5 connector comprising first and second elongate conductors, the first and second
   elongate conductors having longitudinal axes running parallel with each other, and the
   first and second elongate conductors being spaced from each other in a direction
   perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of the first and second elongate conductors, a
   contact of the second elongate conductor being shorter than a contact of the first
10 elongate conductor, and the first and second elongate conductors being disposed side
   by-side, with both ends of the contact of the second elongate conductor located
   inwardly of the ends of the contact of the first elongate conductor.
   Preferable and/or optional features of the third aspect of the invention are set out in
15 appended claims 49 to 64.
   According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a vehicle charging
   connector comprising first and second elongate conductors, the first and second
   elongate conductors having longitudinal axes running parallel with each other, and the
20 first and second elongate conductors being spaced from each other in a direction
   perpendicular to their longitudinal axes, the second elongate conductor being biased
   into a rest position and being movable out of the rest position in a direction
   perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the second elongate conductor and also
   perpendicular to the spacing between the first and second elongate conductors.
25
   Preferable and/or optional features of the fourth aspect of the invention are set out in
   appended claims 66 to 80.
   Description of the Drawings
30
   For a better understanding of the present invention, and to show more clearly how it
   may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
                                               9

   Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a vehicle charging arrangement in use, charging
   a bus;
   Figure 2 shows a plan view from above of the vehicle charging arrangement of Figure
 5 1;
   Figure 3 shows a perspective view from in front of the vehicle charging arrangement
   of Figure 1, with the vehicle disengaged from the charging gantry; and
10 Figure 4 shows a schematic plan view from above of charging conductors, forming
   part of the charging arrangement of Figure 1.
   Description of Preferred Embodiments
15 Referring firstly to Figure 1, a vehicle charging arrangement is generally indicated at
   10. The vehicle charging arrangement includes a first connector 12, and a second
   connector 13.      The first and second connectors 12, 13 include four elongate
   conductors each, that is, eight conductors in all.      In this embodiment, the first
   connector 12 is mounted to the roof of a bus 200, and the second connector 13 is
20 provided on an overhead charging gantry 210.
   The first connector 12 includes first, second, fifth and sixth elongate conductors 16,
   18, 20, 22. The first and second elongate conductors are disposed in the same line as
   each other, each extending from opposite sides of a insulated mount 24. Likewise, the
25 fifth and sixth elongate conductors 20, 22 are disposed in the same line as each other,
   extending from opposite sides of another insulated mount 26.
   The first and second elongate conductors 16, 18, together with their corresponding
   mount 24, form a substantially horizontal bar above the roof of the bus, and are
30 pivotally mounted to the roof of the bus via a movable arm 28. The fifth and sixth
   elongate conductors 20, 22 and mount 26 are likewise mounted to the bus on movable
   arm 30.
                                              10

   Movable arms 28 and 30 can be operated to move first, second, fifth and sixth
   elongate conductors 16, 18, 20, 22 between an extended position, as shown in Figure
   1, and a retracted position in which the pivotal arms 28, 30 and the elongate
   conductors 16, 18, 20, 22 are all disposed in a substantially horizontal plane just
 5 above the roof of the bus 200. The arms 28, 30, may be moved for example by
   electric motors. However, when the arms 28, 30 are in the extended position, they can
   be pressed downwardly towards the retracted position on application of a force to the
   elongate conductors 16, 18, 20, 22 from above. The arms 28, 30 are biased into the
   extended position and will therefore spring back to the extended position when any
10 force is removed.
   When the arms 28, 30 are in the retracted position, they may be locked against the
   roof of the bus 200, preventing any movement by applying force directly to the
   conductors 16, 18, 20, 22. The arms 28, 30 can only be moved from the retracted
15 position to the extended position, and can only be locked into the retracted position,
   by operating the electric motors or other movement means.
   The second connector 13 comprises third, fourth, seventh and eighth elongate
   conductors 32, 34, 36, 38. As shown in the Figure, the first elongate conductor 16
20 connects with the third elongate conductor 32, the second elongate conductor 18
   connects with the fourth elongate conductor 34, the fifth elongate conductor 20
   connects with the seventh elongate conductor 35, and the sixth elongate conductor 22
   connects with the eighth elongate conductor 38.
25 The first and third 16, 32 and the fifth and seventh 20, 26 elongate conductors provide
   high-power charging connections. The second and fourth 18, 34 and sixth and eighth
   22, 38 elongate conductors provide low-power pilot and earth connections. As is
   clear from the Figure, the fourth and eighth elongate conductors 34, 38 are
   substantially thinner than the third and seventh elongate conductors 32, 36.
30
   A first insulator 40 is provided between the third and seventh elongate conductors 32,
   36, and a second insulator 42 is provided between the fourth and eighth elongate
   conductors 34, 38. The third elongate conductor 32, the first insulator 40 and the
   seventh elongate conductor 36 form a bar and the fourth elongate conductor 34, the
                                               11

   second insulator 42 and the eighth elongate conductor 38 form another bar, the two
   bars running parallel to each other, and spaced by around 50cm from each other.
   The first and second insulators 40, 42 are thinner than the conductors 32, 36, 34, 38 to
 5 which they are respectively connected.        In this way, the insulators form waisted
   sections of the bars. In particular, a contact surface of the second vehicle connector
    12 has inset insulating sections between the conducting parts. The contact surface
   faces the bus 200 in the Figure.
10 Referring now to Figure 2, the first connector 12 and second connector 13 are shown
   from above. In this Figure, the relative lengths and widths of the third, fourth, seventh
   and eighth elongate conductors 32, 34, 36, 38, and the first and second insulators 40,
   42, are clearly visible. In particular, the eighth elongate conductor 38 has both ends
   inward of the ends of the seventh elongate conductor 36, as shown by lines AA and
15 BB. The second insulator 42 is longer than the first insulator 40.
   Referring now to Figure 3, the pivoting arms 28, 30 of the first connector 12 are
   shown in a partially extended position.        The biasing arrangement of the second
   charging conductor 13 is also illustrated in this Figure.        The fourth and eighth
20 elongate conductors 34, 38 are mounted to the charging gantry 210 via springs, and
   are suspended on the springs a few centimetres below the level of the third and
   seventh elongate conductors 32, 36. When the first connector 12 is extended to meet
   the second connector 13, the second and sixth elongate conductors 18, 22 will push
   upwardly on the fourth and eighth elongate conductors 34, 38. As a result, the fourth
25 and eighth elongate conductors 34, 38 will move against the springs 44. In this way,
   the vertical offset between the third and seventh elongate conductors 32, 36 and the
   fourth and eighth elongate conductors 34, 38 is automatically adjusted when the
   vehicle is engaged in the charging station. If the vehicle is parked on a flat surface
   and the conductors are undamaged then the fourth and eighth elongate conductors 34,
30 38 will be lifted to the same height as the third and seventh elongate conductors 32, 36
   when charging is in progress.
   The force required to move the fourth and eighth elongate conductors 34, 38 against
   the springs 44 is around 10 to 15 Newtons. The pivoting arms 28, 30 may push the
                                                12

   second and sixth elongate conductors 18, (22) with a force of around 80 Newtons.
   Therefore, when charging, the first and second connectors 12, 13 will push against
   each other with a force of around 65 Newtons, which is sufficient to provide a good
   electrical contact.
 5
   The arrangement of the first and second elongate conductors 16, 18 is best seen in
   Figure 4. The first and second elongate conductors 16, 18 extend from either side of a
   central insulating mount 24. The overall extent of the first and second conductors 16,
    18 from the mount 24 is similar. However, the actual contact area 46 which can form
10 an electrical connection with the second charging connector 13 is substantially
   reduced on the second elongate conductor 18 relative to the first elongate conductor
    16. The contact area of the first elongate conductor extends across substantially the
   entire length of the conductor 16.      The contact area 46 of the second elongate
   conductor 18 has an overall shorter length than the contact area of the first elongate
15 conductor 16.
   The contact area 46 of the second elongate conductor 18, together with the spacing
   between the third and fourth conductors (32, 34) defines a working area 48 on the first
   elongate conductor 16. The working area 48 is inward of the ends of the first elongate
20 conductor 16, ensuring a good stable connection to the first elongate conductor 16.
   It will be appreciated that the arrangement of contact areas can be embodied in a
   number of different ways. For example, the contact area 46 of the second elongate
   conductor 18 may be formed as a raised area on a surface of the conductor, or as a
25 conducting section surrounded by insulating material.        Alternatively, the central
   mount 24 may be extended and the second elongate conductor 18 shortened, with the
   contact area 46 extending along the entire length of the second elongate conductor 18.
   The embodiments described above are provided by way of example only, and various
30 changes and modifications will be apparent to persons skilled in the art without
   departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                              13

   CLAIMS
     1. A vehicle     charging   connector   comprising    first and   second    elongate
        conductors, the first and second elongate conductors having longitudinal axes
 5      running parallel with each other, and the first and second elongate conductors
        being spaced from each other in a direction perpendicular to their longitudinal
        axes, the second elongate conductor being biased into a rest position in which
        the second elongate conductor is perpendicularly offset from a plane
        intersecting the longitudinal axis of the first elongate conductor, and being
10      movable out of the rest position in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal
        axis of the second elongate conductor and also perpendicular to the spacing
        between the first and second elongate conductors to a position in which the
        second elongate conductor is in the plane intersecting the longitudinal axis of
        the first elongate conductor, on application of a force to the second elongate
15      conductor.
     2. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 1, in which the first elongate
        conductor is adapted to make a high power connection and the second
        elongate conductor is adapted to make a low power connection.
20
     3. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, mountable to a
        charging gantry.
     4. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 3, mounted to an overhead
25      charging gantry.
     5. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, mountable to a
        vehicle.
30   6. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 5, mounted to the roof of a
        vehicle.
     7. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6, further
        comprising third and fourth elongate conductors, the third and fourth elongate
                                            14

       conductors having longitudinal axes running parallel with each other, the third
       and fourth elongate conductors being spaced from each other in a direction
       perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of the third and fourth elongate
       conductors, and the third and fourth elongate conductors being spaced from
 5     the first and second elongate conductors, the fourth elongate conductor being
       biased towards a rest position in which the fourth elongate conductor is offset
       from the first elongate conductor, and being movable out of the rest position in
       a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the fourth elongate
       conductor and also perpendicular to the spacing between the third and fourth
10     elongate conductors to a position in which the third and fourth elongate
       conductors and lines drawn perpendicular to either conductor lie in the same
       plane, on application of a force to the fourth elongate conductor.
   8. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 3 or 4, movably mounted to
15     a charging gantry.
   9. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 8, in which the first and
       second elongate conductors are movable in a direction perpendicular to the
       longitudinal axes of the first and second elongate conductors and also
20     perpendicular to the spacing between the first and second elongate conductors.
   10. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in any of claims 1 to 9, in which a
       contact of the second elongate conductor is shorter than a contact of the first
       elongate conductor, and in which the contacts of the first and second elongate
25     conductors are disposed side-by-side, both ends of the contact of the second
       elongate conductor being located inwardly of the ends of the contact of the
       first elongate conductor.
   11. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 7, in which a contact of the
30     fourth elongate conductor is shorter than a contact of the third elongate
       conductor, and in which the contacts of the third and fourth elongate
       conductors are disposed side-by-side, both ends of the contact of the fourth
       elongate conductor being located inwardly of the ends of the contact of the
       third elongate conductor.
                                            15

   12. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11, in which the
       second elongate conductor has a width perpendicular to its longitudinal axis
       and parallel with the spacing between the first and second elongate conductors
 5     which is smaller than a corresponding width of the first elongate conductor.
   13. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 7 or claim 11, in which the
       fourth elongate conductor has a width perpendicular to its longitudinal axis
       and parallel with the spacing between the third and fourth elongate conductors
10     which is smaller than a corresponding width of the third elongate conductor.
   14. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in any of claims 7, 11 or 13, in which
       the first and third elongate conductors are separated from each other by a first
       insulator, and the second and fourth elongate conductors are separated from
15     each other by a second insulator.
   15. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 14, in which the second
       insulator has a length parallel with the first, second, third and fourth elongate
       conductors which is longer than a corresponding length of the first insulator.
20
   16. A vehicle charging connector as claimed in claim 14 or 15, in which an outer
       surface of at least one of the first and second insulators is set inwardly of a
       corresponding parallel outer surface of the first and third or second and fourth
       elongate conductors which mounts the contacts of the respective conductors.
25
                                           16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
