                  PREDICTED-LOCATION NOTIFICATION
ABSTRACT
In one embodiment, a method includes determining a geo-location of a first
user; and identifying a second user that the geo-location of the first user is of
interest to. The second user is identified based at least in part on a relationship
between the first and second users. The method also includes sending to a
mobile client computing device associated with the second user a notification
associated with the geo-location of the first user.

                                             6/8
                                               Start
400                   Determining geo-location of first user
402  Identifyingsecond user that geo-location of first user is of interest to
404 Sending to mobile client computing device associated with second user
             notification associated with geo location of first user
                                   F--                  --      -
                                                 -- 6-of8----------------
                              ~~~------
               ----------------- ...  ------
                                         ..      nd               -
                                                       -..........- - -   - - - - --........
                                   Figure 6 ofS8

                                           1
                   PREDICTED-LOCATION NOTIFICATION
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]     This application is related to U.S. Patent Application No. 13/681,947
filed 20 November 2012, European Patent Application No. 13191153 filed
31 October 2013, International Application No. PCT/2013/068747 titled
"Predicted-location notification" and filed 6 November 2013 in the name of
Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application No. 2013348336 titled
"Predicted-location notification" and filed 6 November 2013 in the name of
Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[2]     This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices.
BACKGROUND
[3]     A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking
website, may enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with
it and with each other through it. The social-networking system may, with input
from a user, create and store in the social-networking system a user profile
associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic
information, communication-channel information, and information on personal
interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a
user, create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of
the social-networking system, as well as provide services (e.g. wall posts,
photo-sharing, event organization, messaging, games, or advertisements) to
facilitate social interaction between or among users.
[4]     The social-networking system may transmit over one or more networks
content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing
device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or
other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and
other data within the social-networking system. The social-networking system

                                           2
may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user, such as
a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.
[5]     A mobile computing device-such as a smartphone, tablet computer, or
laptop computer-may include functionality for determining its location,
direction, or orientation, such as a GPS receiver, compass, or gyroscope. Such
a device may also include functionality for wireless communication, such as
BLUETOOTH communication, near-field communication (NFC), or infrared
(IR) communication or communication with a wireless local area networks
(WLANs) or cellular-telephone network. Such a device may also include one
or more cameras, scanners, touchscreens, microphones, or speakers.      Mobile
computing devices may also execute software applications, such as games, web
browsers, or social-networking applications. With social-networking
applications, users may connect, communicate, and share information with
other users in their social networks.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
[6]     A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for providing a
location-based notification, comprising:
        by a server computing device, determining a first-user geo-location of a
first user and a second-user geo-location of a second user, wherein the first
user is identified based on a future event associated with both the first and
second users, the future event being determined based on data associated with
the second user;
        by the server computing device, identifying a relationship between the
first user and the second user;
        by the server computing device, predicting a future first-user geo
location of the first user based on the first-user geo-location and a trajectory of
movement of the first user over a predetermined period of time;
        by the server computing device, predicting a future second-user geo
location based on the second-user geo-location;
        by the server computing device, determining whether the future first-user
geo-location intersects with the future second-user geo-location at a common
geo-location based on whether the trajectory of movement of the first user

                                          3
substantially intersects a trajectory of movement of the second user at the
common geo-location; and
       by the server computing device, in response to determining that the
future first-user geo-location intersects with the future second-user geo
location, sending to a client computing device associated with the second user a
notification of the future event and information associated with the first user.
[7]    Embodiments according to the present disclosure are disclosed in the
attached claims directed to a method and a computer-readable non-transitory
storage media.
[8]    Particular embodiments provide real-time push notifications derived
from continuous-location or ambient-location information. The information
contained in the push notifications may be based on relationships derived from
continuous-location information of the user and the social graph of the user.
For example, the social-networking system may infer that a group of friends of
the user who are the same location may be part of a social gathering. Push
notifications may be sent to the friends at the location to announce the arrival
of the user at the location of the social gathering. In particular embodiments,
other information, such as for example, real-time traffic data, may be accessed
for composing a push notification in plain English. For example, if a user is
stationary at the airport and the wife or a friend of the user has a movement
along a route toward the airport, the social-networking system may infer the
wife is picking the user up from airport. The content of a push notification
may describe the amount of time before a friend arrives at the user's location
based on the real-time traffic data instead of listing GPS coordinates showing
the location of the wife. For example, the social-networking system may a
push notification to the user estimating the amount of time before the wife
arrives at the airport.

                                        4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[9]    FIGURE 1     illustrates an example network environment associated with
                    a social-networking system.
       FIGURE 2     illustrates an example social graph.
       FIGURE 3     illustrates an example mobile device.
       FIGURE 4     illustrates an example method for sending a notification to a
                    mobile client computing device is near or at a geo-location.
       FIGURE 5     illustrates an example method for receiving a notification
                    with content associated with a geo-location.
       FIGURE 6     illustrates an example method for sending a notification that
                    includes information associated with an activity common to
                    multiple users.
       FIGURE 7     illustrates an example method for receiving a notification
                    with information associated with an activity common to
                    multiple users.
       FIGURE 8     illustrates an example computing system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
[10]   FIGURE 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated
with a social-networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client
system 130. a social-networking system 160, and a third-party system 170
connected to each other by a network 110. Although FIGURE 1 illustrates a
particular arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160,
third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third
party system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by way of
limitation, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system 160,
and third-party system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing
network 110. As another example, two or more of client system 130, social
networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or
logically co-located with each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although
FIGURE 1 illustrates a particular number of client systems 130, social-

                                          5
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable number of client systems 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110. As an
example and not by way of limitation, network environment 100 may include
multiple client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems
 170, and networks 110.
[11]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example
and not by way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include
an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a
local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network
(WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a
portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of
these. Network 110 may include one or more networks 110.
[12]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160,
and third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other.
This disclosure contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments,
one or more links 150 include one or more wireline (such as for example
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable Service Interface
Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for
example Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital
Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 each
include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a
WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the PSTN, a
cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology
based network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links
 150. Links 150 need not necessarily be the same throughout network
environment 100. One or more first links 150 may differ in one or more
respects from one or more second links 150.
[13]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination
of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate

                                         6
functionalities implemented or supported by client system 130. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a client system 130 may include a computer
system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer, netbook, a
tablet computer, e-book reader, global-positioning system (GPS) device,
camera, personal digital assistant (PDA), handheld electronic device, cellular
telephone, smartphone, other suitable electronic device, or any suitable
combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems
 130. A client system 130 may enable a network user at client system 130 to
access network 110. A client system 130 may enable its user to communicate
with other users at other client systems 130.
[14]    In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser
 132, such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or
MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other
extensions, such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system
 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other address directing
the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162, or a server
associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may
generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the
HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and
communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper Text Markup Language
(HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may render a
webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user.
This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and
not by way of limitation, webpages may render from HTML files, Extensible
Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible Markup Language
(XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts
such as, for example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT,
JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and
scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like.
Herein, reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding
webpage files (which a browser may use to render the webpage) and vice versa,
where appropriate.

                                         7
[15]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a
network-addressable computing system that can host an online social network.
Social-networking system 160 may generate, store, receive, and transmit social
networking data, such as, for example, user-profile data, concept-profile data,
social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the online social
network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other
components of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or
more servers 162. Each server 162 may be a unitary server or a distributed
server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers 162 may
be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server,
news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server,
application server, exchange server, database server, proxy server, another
server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein, or any
combination thereof. In particular embodiments, each server 162 may include
hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or
more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities
implemented or supported by server 162. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 164 may include one or more data stores 164. Data stores
 164 may be used to store various types of information. In particular
embodiments, the information stored in data stores 164 may be organized
according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data store
 164 may be a relational, columnar, correlation, or other suitable database.
Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases,
this disclosure contemplate any suitable types of databases. Particular
embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system 130, a social
networking system 160, or a third-party system 170 to manage, retrieve,
modify, add, or delete, the information stored in data store 164.
[16]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one
or more social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular
embodiments, a social graph may include multiple nodes-which may include
multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a particular user) or multiple
concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept)-and multiple

                                          8
edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users
of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other
users. In particular embodiments, users may join the online social network via
social-networking system 160 and then add connections (e.g. relationships) to a
number of other users of social-networking system 160 whom they want to be
connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of social
networking system 160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association,
or relationship via social-networking system 160.
[17]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide
users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects,
supported by social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of
limitation, the items and objects may include groups or social networks to
which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or calendar
entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a
user may use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service,
interactions with advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable
items or objects. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160
may predict a future geo-location of a user based on events or calendar entries
supported by social-networking system and a relationship between users, as
described below. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being
represented in social-networking system 160 or by an external system of third
party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160 and
coupled to social-networking system 160 via a network 110.
[18]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable
of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation,
social-networking system 160 may enable users to interact with each other as
well as receive content from third-party systems 170 or other entities, or to
allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming
interfaces (API) or other communication channels. As another example, social
networking system 160 may interact with third-party systems to receive content
associated with transportation data, such as for example, real-time traffic data,
airline flight schedules, public-transportation schedules, business-directory
information, such as for example, business addresses or business activity

                                          9
information, or mapping data, such as for example, geographic information
system (GIS) data.
[19]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 or third-party
system 170 may derive information regarding users of social-networking
system 160 based on location data sent by client system 130 along with social
graph information stored on social-networking system 160 and content stored
on third-party systems 170. In particular embodiments, social-networking
system 160 may predict a future geo-location of user 101 based at least in part
on a trajectory of movement of user 101 from location data and mapping data.
Social-networking system 160 may identify another user interested in the future
geo-location of user 101 based at least in part on social-graph information. As
an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may
determine user 101 and another user are meeting when a trajectory of
movement associated with user 101 is determined to intersect the current geo
location of the other user and user 101 has a relationship with the other user.
Moreover, social-networking system 160 may estimate an arrival time to the
airport based at least in part on location data sent by client system 130, as well
as real-time traffic data associated with the trajectory of movement of user 101,
and mapping data, such as for example GIS data, accessed from third-party
systems 170.
[20]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or
more types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces,
including but not limited to APIs, one or more web services, one or more
content sources, one or more networks, or any other suitable components that
servers may communicate with. A third-party system 170 may be operated by a
different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third
party systems 170 may operate in conjunction with each other to provide
social-networking services to users of social-networking system 160 or third
party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system 160 may provide a
platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170,
may use to provide social-networking services and functionality to users across
the Internet.

                                          10
[21]    In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third
party content object provider. A third-party content object provider may
include one or more sources of content objects, which may be communicated to
a client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, content
objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the
user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant
reviews, restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable
information. As another example and not by way of limitation, content objects
may include incentive content objects, such as coupons, discount tickets, gift
certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
[22]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes
user-generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with
social-networking system 160. User-generated content may include anything a
user can add, upload, send, or "post" to social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a user communicates posts to social
networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may include data such
as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be provided by
users to social-networking system 160 by a third-party through a
"communication channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
[23]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 or third-party
system 170 may receive content provided by one or more users with a
relationship with user 101, as described below. Social-networking system 160
or third-party system 170 may poll client system 130 for location data, as
described below, and store a location associated with the content in the location
stores. In particular embodiments, social-networking 160 or third-party 170
system may receive location data of client system 130 through user 101
initiating a location update, through a "check-in" performed by user 101, or any
combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation, a status
update provided by a user from a particular geo-location, such for example Coit
Tower, may be associated with mapping data corresponding to the particular
geo-location. Although this disclosure describes obtaining location data of the
client system associated with the user through particular methods, this

                                          11
disclosure contemplates obtaining location data of the client system associated
with the user through any suitable method, such as for example, polling the
location service of the client device, a "check-in" performed by the user, or any
combination of methods. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
associating content with particular geo-locations, this disclosure contemplates
associating content with any suitable geo-location, such as for example, a
"virtual" geo-location generated by a user through social-networking system
 160.
[24]    A notification controller of social-networking system 160 may send a
notification for user 101 to client device 130. In particular embodiments, the
notification may be displayed on a display of client system 130 associated with
user 101. As an example and not by way of limitation, a server of social
networking system 160 may send a notification, such as for example, a modal
window on a display of one or more client systems 130 associated with user
 101.  In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 or third-party
system 170 may send the notification based on the current geo-location of
client device 130 associated with user 101. Social-networking system 160 or
third-party system 170 may select content associated with a current geo
location of client system 130 from among the content provided by users with a
relationship with user 101.   As an example and not by way of limitation, the
content of the modal window may include content provided by another user,
such as for example, a status update or uploaded photo associated with a
particular geo-location, as described below. As another example, the
notification controller of social-networking system 160 may send a notification
based on a current geo-location or predicted geo-location of another user with a
relationship to user 101. The content of the notification, such as for example, a
modal window may include a status associated with a current geo-location or
predicted future geo-location of the user with a relationship to user 101.
Although this disclosure describes sending a particular form of notification,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable form of notification sent or displayed
on the client system associated with the user, such as for example, short
messaging service (SMS) messages, multi-media messaging service (MMS)
messages, instant messaging, balloon, dialog box, or e-mail.

                                         12
[25]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a
variety of servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or
more of the following: a web server, action logger, API-request server,
relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object classifier, notification controller,
action log, third-party-content-object-exposure log, inference module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, ad-targeting module, user
interface module, user-profile store., connection store, third-party content store,
or location store. Social-networking system 160 may also include suitable
components such as network interfaces, security mechanisms, load balancers,
failover servers, management-and-network-operations consoles, other suitable
components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for
storing user profiles. A user profile may include, for example, biographic
information, demographic information, behavioral information, social
information, or other types of descriptive information, such as work
experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences, interests, affinities, or
location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more
categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by
way of limitation, if a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the
category may be the brand, or the general category of "shoes" or "clothing." A
connection store may be used for storing connection information about users.
The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common
work experience, group memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in
any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may
also include user-defined connections between different users and content (both
internal and external). A web server may be used for linking social-networking
system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or more third-party system
 170 via network 110. The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social
networking system 160 and one or more client systems 130. An API-request
server may allow a third-party system 170 to access information from social
networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be

                                         13
used to receive communications from a web server about a user's actions on or
off social-networking system 160. In conjunction with the action log, a third
party-content-object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party
content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding
content objects to a client system 130. Information may be pushed to a client
system 130 as notifications, or information may be pulled from client system
130 responsive to a request received from client system 130. Authorization
servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of
social-networking system 160. A privacy setting of a user determines how
particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization
server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by
social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g. third-party
system 170), such as, for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings.
Third-party-content-object stores may be used to store content objects received
from third parties, such as a third-party system 170. Location stores may be
used for storing location information received from client systems 130
associated with users. Ad-pricing modules may combine social information, the
current time, location information, or other suitable information to provide
relevant advertisements, in the form of notifications, to a user.
[26]   FIGURE 2 illustrates an example social graph. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one or more social
graphs 200 in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments, social graph
200 may include multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes 202
or multiple concept nodes 204-and multiple edges 206 connecting the nodes.
Example social graph 200 illustrated in FIGURE 2 is shown, for didactic
purposes, in a two-dimensional visual map representation. In particular
embodiments, a social-networking system 160, client system 130, or third-party
system 170 may access social graph 200 and related social-graph information
for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social graph 200 may be
stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph
database). Such a data store may include one or more searchable or queryable
indexes of nodes or edges of social graph 200.

                                           14
[27]    In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of
social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a
user may be an individual (human user), an entity (e.g. an enterprise, business,
or third-party application), or a group (e.g. of individuals or entities) that
interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social
networking system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node
202 corresponding to the user, and store the user node 202 in one or more data
stores. Users and user nodes 202 described herein may, where appropriate, refer
to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with registered users. In
addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may,
where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social
networking system 160. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be
associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by
various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an example and
not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture,
contact information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment,
education background, preferences, interests, or other demographic
information. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated
with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a
user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to one or
more webpages.
[28]    In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a
concept. As an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may
correspond to a place (such as, for example, a movie theater, restaurant,
landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a website associated with
social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a web
application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group,
sports team, or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video
file, digital photo, text file, structured document., or application) which may be
located within social-networking system 160 or on an external server, such as a
web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as, for example, a
sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a

                                         15
game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more
such concepts. A concept node 204 may be associated with information of a
concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems,
including social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of
limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title; one or more
images (e.g. an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g. an address
or a geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a URL);
contact information (e.g. a phone number or an email address); other suitable
concept information; or any suitable combination of such information. In
particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be associated with one or
more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node
204. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or
more webpages.
[29]   In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or
be represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page").
Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160.
Profile pages may also be hosted on third-party websites associated with a
third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of limitation, a profile
page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept
node 204. Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other
users. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user node 202 may have a
corresponding user-profile page in which the corresponding user may add
content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself. As another
example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a
corresponding concept-profile page in which one or more users may add
content, make declarations, or express themselves, particularly in relation to
the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
[30]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third
party webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party
webpage or resource may include, among other elements, content, a selectable
or other icon, or other inter-actable object (which may be implemented, for
example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes) representing an action or

                                         16
activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party webpage
may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat," "recommend,"
or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage
may perform an action by selecting one of the icons (e.g. "eat"), causing a
client system 130 to transmit to social-networking system 160 a message
indicating the user's action. In response to the message, social-networking
system 160 may create an edge (e.g. an "eat" edge) between a user node 202
corresponding to the user and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third
party webpage or resource and store edge 206 in one or more data stores.
[31]   In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be
connected to each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a
pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In
particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or represent one or more data
objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a
second user is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social
networking system 160 may transmit a "friend request" to the second user. If
the second user confirms the "friend request," social-networking system 160
may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202 to the second
user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph
information in one or more of data stores 24. In the example of FIGURE 2,
social graph 200 includes an edge 206 indicating a friend relation between user
nodes 202 of user "A" and user "B" and an edge indicating a friend relation
between user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B." Although this disclosure
describes or illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes
connecting particular user nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
edges 206 with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202. As an
example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent a friendship,
family relationship, business or employment relationship, fan relationship,
follower relationship, visitor relationship, subscriber relationship,
superior/subordinate relationship, reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal
relationship, another suitable type of relationship, or two or more such
relationships. Moreover, although this disclosure generally describes nodes as

                                         17
being connected, this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being
connected. Herein, references to users or concepts being connected may, where
appropriate, refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being
connected in social graph 200 by one or more edges 206.
[32]   The social-networking system may access content, user generated or
third-party generated, provided by user nodes 202 that are connected to the user
of the client system through relationship (e.g. "friend") edge 206. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system may access content provided user
nodes 202 to select content that is associated with the current location of the
client system. As described above, the social-networking system may send a
notification to one or more client systems 130 associated with a user. The
notification sent to the client device may include user-generated content
associated with the current geo-location of the client device. In the example of
FIGURE 2, user "A" may have a friend relation with user "B". As an example
and not by way of limitation, a notification sent to the client device of user "A"
may include a photograph of Coit Tower uploaded by user "B" in response to
the social-networking system determining client device of user "A" is in the
vicinity of Coit Tower.
[33]   As described above, the social-networking system may access various
types of items or objects, supported by the social-networking system, such as
for example events or calendar entries, to determine a current geo-location or
predict a future geo-location of interest to a user. As illustrated in the example
of FIGURE 2, user "D" and user "B" may have a relationship with user "A" as
indicated by edges 206 connecting the respective user nodes 202. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system may identify a user who is
interested in a future geo-location of another user based at least in part on the
accessed calendar or event entries and social-graph information. As an
example and not by way of limitation, user "A" may organize an event at a
particular geo-location that is accepted by user "B" and user "D". Based on the
calendar object supported by the social-networking system, the social
networking system may identify a user "B" who is interested in a geo-location
of user "D". As an example and not by way of limitation, user "B" and user
"D" may have a trajectory of movement toward the particular geo-location

                                          18
associated with the event and the social-networking system may send a
notification to user "B" providing an estimate of the amount of time before user
"D" arrives at the particular geo-location.
[34]    As described above, the social-networking system may access content
from third-party systems in conjunction with social-graph information to
determine a current geo-location or predict a future geo-location of users that
have a relationship. As illustrated in the example of FIGURE 2, edge 206
connecting user "D" to user "A" may indicate a relationship between user "D"
and user "A". In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may
determine a future geo-location based at least in part on a trajectory of
movement of user "A" and the current geo-location of user "D". The social
networking system may determine a trajectory of movement of user "A" may
intersect a current location of substantially stationary user "D" and determine
the future geo-location of user "A" is the current location of user "D". As an
example and not by way of limitation, the social-networking system may
determine user "A" is meeting user "D" at an airport when user "A" has a
trajectory of movement toward the airport and user "D" is stationary at the
airport for at least a pre-determined amount of time.
[35]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may determine
a future geo-location of users based at least in part on location data, mapping
data, and social-graph information. As an example and not by way of
limitation, the social-networking system may determine user "A", user "B", and
user "D" are meeting for a meal at a particular restaurant when user "A", user
"B", and user "D" each have a trajectory of movement that substantially
intersects at the particular restaurant, such as for example, the "Old Pro". In
particular embodiments, this determination may be supported by social-graph
information, such as for example, user "B" "liking" the "Old Pro", as
illustrated in the example of FIGURE 2, or user "A" previously "checking in"
at the "Old Pro". Although this disclosure describes a particular system
predicting future geo-location based on particular data, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable system predicting future geo-locations based on any
suitable data or combination of data.

                                          19
[36]   In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a
concept node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a
user associated with user node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept
node 204. As an example and not by way of limitation, as illustrated in
FIGURE 2, a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened," "cooked,"
"worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to a edge
type or subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204
may include, for example, a selectable "check in" icon (such as., for example, a
clickable "check in" icon) or a selectable "add to favorites" icon. Similarly,
after a user clicks these icons, social-networking system 160 may create a
"favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response to a user's action
corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of
limitation, a user (user "C") may listen to a particular song ("Ramble On")
using a particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an online music application).
In this case, social-networking system 160 may create a "listened" edge 206
and a "used" edge (as illustrated in FIGURE 2) between user nodes 202
corresponding to the user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and
application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the
application. Moreover, social-networking system 160 may create a "played"
edge 206 (as illustrated in FIGURE 2) between concept nodes 204
corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular
song was played by the particular application. In this case, "played" edge 206
corresponds to an action performed by an external application (SPOTIFY) on
an external audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this disclosure describes
particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting user nodes 202 and
concept nodes 204, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with
any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204.
Moreover, although this disclosure describes edges between a user node 202
and a concept node 204 representing a single relationship, this disclosure
contemplates edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204
representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of
limitation, an edge 206 may represent both that a user likes and has used at a
particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 206 may represent each type of

                                         20
relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between a user node 202 and
a concept node 204 (as illustrated in FIGURE 2 between user node 202 for user
"E" and concept node 204 for "SPOTIFY").
[37]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an
edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile
page (such as, for example, by using a web browser or a special-purpose
application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate that he or she
likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a
"Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to transmit to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept
associated with the concept-profile page. In response to the message, social
networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between user node 202
associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206
between the user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In
particular embodiments, an edge 206 may be automatically formed by social
networking system 160 in response to a particular user action. As an example
and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a movie,
or listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202
corresponding to the first user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those
concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges 206 in
particular manners, this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges
206 in any suitable manner.
[38]    FIGURE 3 illustrates an example mobile device. In particular
embodiments, the client system may be a mobile device 10 as described above.
This disclosure contemplates mobile device 10 taking any suitable physical
form. In particular embodiments, mobile device 10 may be a computing system
as described below. As example and not by way of limitation, mobile device
 10 may be a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a
computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a laptop or
notebook computer system, a mobile telephone, a smartphone, a personal
digital assistant (PDA), a tablet computer system, or a combination of two or

                                         21
more of these. In particular embodiments, mobile device 10 may have a touch
sensor 12 as an input component. In the example of FIGURE 3, touch sensor
 12 is incorporated on a front surface of mobile device 10. In the case of
capacitive touch sensors, there may be two types of electrodes: transmitting and
receiving.   These electrodes may be connected to a controller designed to drive
the transmitting electrodes with electrical pulses and measure the changes in
capacitance from the receiving electrodes caused by a touch or proximity input.
In the example of FIGURE 3, one or more antennae 14A-B may be incorporated
into one or more sides of mobile device 10. Antennae 14A-B are components
that convert electric current into radio waves, and vice versa. During
transmission of signals, a transmitter applies an oscillating radio frequency
(RF) electric current to terminals of antenna 14A-B, and antenna 14A-B
radiates the energy of the applied the current as electromagnetic (EM) waves.
During reception of signals, antennae 14A-B convert the power of an incoming
EM wave into a voltage at the terminals of antennae 14A-B.      The voltage may
be transmitted to a receiver for amplification.
[39]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system or the third
party system may poll or "ping" mobile device 10 using a activation signal to
obtain location information. As an example and not by way of limitation, the
social-networking system may poll the application of mobile device 10 for
location data by sending the activation signal activate the location service of
mobile device 10. The activation signal may be transmitted using a wireless
communication protocol such as for example, WI-FI or third-generation mobile
telecommunications (3G) and received by mobile device 10 through one or
more antennae 14A-B. In particular embodiments, the location service of
mobile device 10 may use one or more methods of location determination, such
as for example, using the location of one or more cellular towers, crowd
sourced location information associated with a WI-FI hotspot, or the global
positioning system (GPS) function of mobile device 10.
[40]    As described above, the social-networking system may, automatically
and without manual input, determine a geo-location associated with mobile
device 10 based in part on the location data provided by mobile device 10.
Alternatively, social-networking 160 or third-party 170 system may receive

                                         22
location data of client system 130 through user 101 initiating a location update,
through a "check-in" performed by user 101, or any combination thereof. In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system may send a notification
to mobile device 10 associated with a user based at least in part on the location
data from mobile device 10. The notification may be modal window that
displays content provided by another user on a display of mobile device 10 in
response to determining mobile device 10 to be at or near a particular geo
location. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user who got engaged
at Coit Tower may post a photograph of the engagement on the social
networking system. A notification that includes the engagement photograph
may be sent to mobile device 10 in response to the user associated with mobile
device 10 having a relationship (e.g. "friend") with the other user and
determining mobile device 10 is currently at or near Coit Tower. As another
example, user "D" may post a status update to the social-networking system
from Coit Tower announcing an engagement. Mobile device 10 associated with
user "A" may receive a notification that is a modal window that reads "user
"D" got engaged at Coit Tower" in response to the social-networking system
determining mobile device 10 is currently located near or at Coit Tower.
[41]   As described above, the content displayed in a notification may include
information associated with a geo-location of a user. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system may poll respective mobile devices
 10 of user "A" and user "D" to determine the geo-location associated with each
user. The location data of respective mobile devices 10 may be correlated by
the social-networking system to particular geo-locations based at least in part
on mapping data, such as for example, GIS data. As an example and not by
way of limitation, the social-networking system may determine user "D" is
located at an airport and user "A" is on a road heading toward the airport. As
discussed above, based on social-graph information, location data, and mapping
data, the social-networking system may predict the airport is the future geo
location of user "A" and may further determine an arrival time based at least in
part on real-time traffic data. In particular embodiments, the social-networking
system may send a notification to mobile device 10 associated with user "D",
where the notification may include information providing an updated arrival

                                         23
time for user "A" at the airport. As an example and not by way of limitation, a
notification displayed on mobile device 10 associated with user "D" may read
"user "A" is about 5 minutes from airport."    Although this disclosure describes
sending particular notifications that includes particular content to a mobile
device, this disclosure contemplates sending any suitable notification that
includes any suitable content to any suitable device.
[42]    FIGURE 4 illustrates an example method for sending a notification to a
mobile client computing device is near or at a geo-location. The method may
start at step 300, where a server computing device determines a current geo
location of a mobile client computing device associated with a first user. In
particular embodiments, the mobile client device may be configured to provide
location data corresponding to the current geo-location to the server computing
device. At step 302 the server computing device selects content associated
with the current geo-location that was provided by a second user. In particular
embodiments, the selection of content is based at least in part on a relationship
between the first and second users. At step 304, a notification associated with
the content is sent to the mobile client computing device by the server
computing device while the mobile client computing device is at or near the
current geo-location, at which point the method may end. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIGURE 4
as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIGURE 4 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover,
although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components
carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGURE 4, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out
any suitable steps of the method of FIGURE 4.
[43]    FIGURE 5 illustrates an example method for receiving a notification
with content associated with a geo-location. The method may start at step 310,
where a mobile client computing device sends location data to a server
computing device. In particular embodiments, the location data corresponds to
a current geo-location of the mobile client computing device associated with a
first user. At step 312, the mobile client computing device receives from the
server computing device a notification associated with a content associated

                                           24
with the current geo-location that was provided by a second user, at which
point the method may end. In particular embodiments, the notification is
received while the mobile client computing device is at or near the current geo
location. In particular embodiments, the selection of content is based at least
in part on a relationship between the first and second users. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIGURE 5
as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIGURE 5 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover,
although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components
carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGURE 5, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out
any suitable steps of the method of FIGURE 5.
[44]    FIGURE 6 illustrates an example method for sending a notification to a
second user interested in the geo-location of a first user. The method may start
at step 400, where a server computing device determines a current geo-location
of a first user. Step 402 identifies a second user that the geo-location of the
first user is of interest to. In particular embodiments, the second user is
identified based at least in part on a relationship between the first and second
users. At step 404, a notification associated with the geo-location of the first
user is sent to a mobile client computing device associated with the second
user, at which point the method may end. In particular embodiments, the geo
location of the first user is a future geo-location and the server computing
device predicts the future geo-location based at least in part on the geo-location
of the first user relative to a geo-location of the second user and social-graph
information. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps
of the method of FIGURE 6 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIGURE 6 occurring in any
suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of FIGURE
6, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIGURE 6.
[45]    FIGURE 7 illustrates an example method for receiving a notification by
a second user interested in the geo-location of a first user. The method may

                                          25
start at step 410, where the mobile client computing device associated with a
second user receives a notification associated with a geo-location of a first user
from the server computing device. In particular embodiments, the second user
is interested in the geo-location of the first user and the second user is
identified based at least in part on a relationship between the first and second
users. At step 412, a display of the mobile client computing device displays
the notification, at which point the method may end. In particular
embodiments, the notification is a modal window displayed on the display of
the mobile client computing device. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular steps of the method of FIGURE 7 as occurring in a
particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method
of FIGURE 7 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIGURE 7, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps
of the method of FIGURE 7.
[46]    FIGURE 8 illustrates example computing system. In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 60 perform one or more steps of
one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments,
one or more computer systems 60 provide functionality described or illustrated
herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one or more computer
systems 60 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein.
Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer
systems 60. Herein, reference to a computer system may encompass a
computing device, where appropriate.      Moreover, reference to a computer
system may encompass one or more computer systems, where appropriate.
[47]    This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems
60. This disclosure contemplates computer system 60 taking any suitable
physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system 60
may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board
computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM)
or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook

                                         26
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer
systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a
tablet computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where
appropriate, computer system 60 may include one or more computer systems
60; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines;
span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more
cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more
computer systems 60 may perform without substantial spatial or temporal
limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated
herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer
systems 60 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one
or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems
60 may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of
one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.
[48]   In particular embodiments, computer system 60 includes a processor 62,
memory 64, storage 66, an input/output (I/O) interface 68, a communication
interface 70, and a bus 72. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
particular computer system having a particular number of particular
components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
[49]   In particular embodiments, processor 62 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and
not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor 62 may retrieve (or
fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache, memory 64,
or storage 66; decode and execute them; and then write one or more results to
an internal register, an internal cache, memory 64, or storage 66. In particular
embodiments, processor 62 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 62 including
any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an
example and not by way of limitation, processor 62 may include one or more
instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation
lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies

                                          27
of instructions in memory 64 or storage 66, and the instruction caches may
speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor 62. Data in the data caches
may be copies of data in memory 64 or storage 66 for instructions executing at
processor 62 to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at
processor 62 for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 62 or
for writing to memory 64 or storage 66; or other suitable data. The data caches
may speed up read or write operations by processor 62. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 62. In particular embodiments,
processor 62 may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions,
or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 62 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where
appropriate, processor 62 may include one or more arithmetic logic units
(ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 62.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.
[50]   In particular embodiments, memory 64 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 62 to execute or data for processor 62 to operate on.
As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 60 may load
instructions from storage 66 or another source (such as, for example, another
computer system 60) to memory 64. Processor 62 may then load the
instructions from memory 64 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 62 may retrieve the instructions from the
internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution
of the instructions, processor 62 may write one or more results (which may be
intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor
62 may then write one or more of those results to memory 64. In particular
embodiments, processor 62 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 64 (as opposed to storage 66 or
elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or
internal caches or in memory 64 (as opposed to storage 66 or elsewhere). One
or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and a data bus)
may couple processor 62 to memory 64. Bus 72 may include one or more
memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more

                                         28
memory management units (MMUs) reside between processor 62 and memory
64 and facilitate accesses to memory 64 requested by processor 62. In
particular embodiments, memory 64 includes random access memory (RAM).
This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate. Where appropriate, this
RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where
appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 64 may include one or
more memories 64, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
memory.
[51]    In particular embodiments, storage 66 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 66 may
include a hard disk drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical
disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB)
drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage 66 may include
removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage 66
may be internal or external to computer system 60, where appropriate. In
particular embodiments, storage 66 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In
particular embodiments, storage 66 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where
appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM
(PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM),
electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two
or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 66 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 66 may include one or more storage control
units facilitating communication between processor 62 and storage 66, where
appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 66 may include one or more storages
66. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
[52]    In particular embodiments, I/O interface 68 includes hardware, software,
or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer
system 60 and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 60 may include one
or more of these I/O devices, where appropriate. One or more of these I/O
devices may enable communication between a person and computer system 60.

                                         29
As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still
camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable
I/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I/O device may
include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O
devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 68 for them. Where appropriate, I/O
interface 68 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling
processor 62 to drive one or more of these I/O devices. I/O interface 68 may
include one or more I/O interfaces 68, where appropriate. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O interface, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable I/O interface.
[53]   In particular embodiments, communication interface 70 includes
hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for
communication (such as for example, packet-based communication) between
computer system 60 and one or more other computer systems 60 or one or more
networks. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication
interface 70 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a
wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless
network, such as a WI-Fl network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
network and any suitable communication interface 70 for it. As an example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 60 may communicate with an ad hoc
network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide
area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more
portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an
example, computer system 60 may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN)
(such as for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a WI-MAX
network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System
for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless
network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 60 may
include any suitable communication interface 70 for any of these networks,
where appropriate. Communication interface 70 may include one or more

                                         30
communication interfaces 70, where appropriate. Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable communication interface.
[54]   In particular embodiments, bus 72 includes hardware, software, or both
coupling components of computer system 60 to each other. As an example and
not by way of limitation, bus 72 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port
(AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture
(EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect,
an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect, a
low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA)
bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus,
a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics
Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a
combination of two or more of these. Bus 72 may include one or more buses
72, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
[55]   Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media
may include one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs)
(such, as for example, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application
specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives (HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs),
optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical discs, magneto
optical drives, floppy diskettes. floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes,
solid-state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any
other suitable computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable
combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. A computer-readable
non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination
of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
[56]   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B"
means "A, B, or both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated
otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint and several, unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,

                                           31
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly
indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
[57]    The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions,
variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments
described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art
would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example
embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these
embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps described or illustrated
anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or
system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to,
capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a
particular function encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or
not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as
that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.
Further Embodiments
[58]    One embodiment provides a method comprising:
        by a server computing device, determining a geo-location of a first user;
        by the server computing device, identifying a second user that the geo
location of the first user is of interest to, the second user being identified based
at least in part on a relationship between the first and second users; and
        by the server computing device, sending to a mobile client computing
device associated with the second user a notification associated with the geo
location of the first user.
[59]    In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a current geo
location.
[60]    In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a future geo
location and determining the future geo-location comprises predicting the
future geo-location.

                                         32
[61]   In one arrangement, predicting the future geo-location comprises
determining a geo-location common to the first and second users based at least
in part on the geo-location of the first user relative to a geo-location of the
second user and social-graph information.
[62]   In one arrangement, predicting the future geo-location comprises
determining a geo-location common to the first and second users based at least
in part on whether a trajectory of movement of the first user substantially
intersects a trajectory of movement of the second user and social-graph
information.
[63]   In one arrangement:
       the first and second users are users of a social-networking system;
       the social-networking system comprises a graph that comprises a
plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the first user;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the second user; and
       the relationship between the first and second users comprises at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one of
the nodes corresponding to the second user by one or more edges.
[64]   In one arrangement, one or more of the edges directly connect at least
one of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the second user.
[65]   Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non
transitory storage media embodying logic configured when executed to:
       determine a geo-location of a first user;
       identify a second user that the geo-location of the first user is of interest
to, the second user being identified based at least in part on a relationship
between the first and second users; and
       send to a mobile client computing device associated with the second user
a notification associated with the geo-location of the first user.
[66]   In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a current geo
location.

                                          33
[67]   In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a future geo
location and determining the future geo-location comprises predicting the
future geo-location.
[68]   In one arrangement, the logic is further configured to determine a geo
location common to the first and second users based at least in part on the geo
location of the first user relative to a geo-location of the second user and
social-graph information.
[69]   In one arrangement, the logic is further configured to determine a geo
location common to the first and second users based at least in part on whether
a trajectory of movement of the first user substantially intersects a trajectory of
movement of the second user and social-graph information.
[70]   In one arrangement:
       the first and second users are users of a social-networking system;
       the social-networking system comprises a graph that comprises a
plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the first user;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the second user; and
       the relationship between the first and second users comprises at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one of
the nodes corresponding to the second user by one or more edges.
[71]   In one arrangement, one or more of the edges directly connect at least
one of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the second user.
[72]   A further embodiment provides a method comprising:
       by a mobile client computing device, receiving a notification associated
with a geo-location of a first user from a server computing device, the mobile
client computing device associated with a second user, the second user being
interested in the geo-location of the first user and identified based at least in
part on a relationship between the first and second users; and
       by the mobile client computing device, displaying the notification on a
display.
[73]   In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a current geo
location.

                                           34
[74]   In one arrangement, the geo-location of the first user is a future geo
location and determining the future geo-location comprises predicting the
future geo-location.
[75]   In one arrangement, predicting the future geo-location comprises
determining a geo-location common to the first and second users based at least
in part on the geo-location of the first user relative to a geo-location of the
second user and social-graph information.
[76]   In one arrangement:
       the first and second users are users of a social-networking system;
       the social-networking system comprises a graph that comprises a
plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the first user;
       at least one node in the graph corresponds to the second user; and
       the relationship between the first and second users comprises at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one of
the nodes corresponding to the second user by one or more edges.
[77]   In one arrangement, one or more of the edges directly connect at least
one of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the second user.
[78]   A further embodiment provides a method comprising:
       by a server computing device, determining a geo-location of a first user;
       by the server computing device, identifying a second user that the geo
location of the first user is of interest to, the second user being identified based
at least in part on a relationship between the first and second users; and
       by the server computing device, sending to a mobile client computing
device associated with the second user a notification associated with the geo
location of the first user,
       wherein the geo-location of the first user is a future geo-location and
determining the future geo-location comprises predicting the future geo
location and
       wherein predicting the future geo-location comprises determining a geo
location common to the first and second users based at least in part on whether

                                          35
a trajectory of movement of the first user substantially intersects a trajectory of
movement of the second user.
[79]   In one arrangement, predicting the future geo-location comprises
determining a geo-location common to the first and second users based at least
in part on the geo-location of the first user relative to a geo-location of the
second user and social-graph information.
[80]   In one arrangement, the determining a geo-location common to the first
and second users is based also on social-graph information.
[81]   In one arrangement:
       the first and second users are users of a social-networking system;
       the social-networking      system comprises     a graph that comprises      a
plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes;
        at least one node in the graph corresponds to the first user;
        at least one node in the graph corresponds to the second user; and
        the relationship between the first and second users comprises at least one
of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least one of
the nodes corresponding to the second user by one or more edges.
        [82]   In one arrangement, one or more of the edges directly connect at
least one of the nodes corresponding to the first user being connected to at least
one of the nodes corresponding to the second user.
        [83]   In one arrangement, the method comprises:
       by a mobile client computing device,           receiving a notification, in
particular a push notification, associated with a geo-location of a first user
from a server computing device, the mobile client computing device associated
with a second user, the second user being interested in the geo-location of the
first user and identified based at least in part on a relationship between the first
and second users; and
       by the mobile client computing device, displaying the notification on a
display.
        [84]   A further embodiment provides one or more computer-readable
non-transitory storage media embodying logic configured when executed to
perform a method according to the embodiment described above.

                                         36
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.     A method for providing a location-based notification, comprising:
        by a server computing device, determining a first-user geo-location of a
first user and a second-user geo-location of a second user, wherein the first
user is identified based on a future event associated with both the first and
second users, the future event being determined based on data associated with
the second user;
        by the server computing device, identifying a relationship between the
first user and the second user;
        by the server computing device, predicting a future first-user geo
location of the first user based on the first-user geo-location and a trajectory of
movement of the first user over a predetermined period of time;
        by the server computing device, predicting a future second-user geo
location based on the second-user geo-location;
        by the server computing device, determining whether the future first-user
geo-location intersects with the future second-user geo-location at a common
geo-location based on whether the trajectory of movement of the first user
substantially intersects a trajectory of movement of the second user at the
common geo-location; and
        by the server computing device, in response to determining that the
future first-user geo-location intersects with the future second-user geo
location, sending to a client computing device associated with the second user a
notification of the future event and information associated with the first user.
2.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the future geo-location is predicted
further based on social-graph information associated with the first user.
3.      The method of Claim 2, wherein the common geo-location is determined
further based on social-graph information associated with the second user.

                                           37
4.      The method according to any one of the Claims 1 to 3, wherein:
       by a mobile client computing device, receiving a notification, in
particular a push notification, associated with a geo-location of a first user
from a server computing device, the mobile client computing device associated
with a second user, the second user being interested in the geo-location of the
first user and identified based at least in part on a relationship between the first
and second users; and
       by the mobile client computing device, displaying the notification on a
display.
5.     One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying
logic configured when executed to perform a method according to any one of
Claims 1 to 4.
                                 Facebook, Inc.
                          By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                              gCOTTERS
                            Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
