                                      14
                                  ABSTRACT
  This invention relates to a connector 10 for connecting the
  lower end, or tailpiece, of a sink or vanity basin waste to a
5 trap. The connector 10 includes an inlet portion 11 and an
  outlet portion 12,      and an intermediate portion 13 that is
  connected to, and in fluid communication with, said inlet
  portion and said outlet portion. The intermediate portion has
  an external, non-circular, transverse cross-section.
  *ADTAA1A7 KNA --- Ol 1Q

     en
0
  (1

                                        1
                                   A CONNECTOR
    This invention relates to a connector.
 5  This invention has particular, but not exclusive, application
    to a connector for connecting a sink or vanity basin waste to
    a trap and wherein reference will be made to same. However, it
    will be appreciated that the connector may have other plumbing
    related applications, particularly where there is a lack of
 0  space to accommodate plumbing fittings.
    Bath and basin wastes typically include an externally threaded
    tube defining a flow passage therethrough from its upper end
    to its lower end and which is adapted to fit into the drain
 5  opening provided in a sink or basin. A      flange extends
    outwardly from the tube at its upper end and is      arranged to
    engage an upper      face of the sink or basin bottom about the
    drain opening. Typically, a flat rubber washer is fitted about
    the tube between the      flange and the sink or basin and a nut is
 '0 screwed onto the tube      so as to engage a lower face of the sink
    or basin bottom and tighten the flange against the washer so
    that it forms a watertight      seal therebetween.
    One end of a substantially "U"      shaped pipe, or trap, is
25  connected to the lower end of the tube, or tailpiece, while
    the other end of the pipe is connected to a waste water
    drainage pipe which eventually is connected to the      sewerage
    system.
30  In the case of wall mounted sinks and vanity basins, a box
    like structure is often erected around the drainage system so
    as to conceal the unsightly arrangement of pipes, and, in
    particular the trap,      from view, and wherein the box like
    structure may include a front wall in which there is       formed an
    iART04147 6March2018

                                     2
    opening that may be selectively closed by one or more doors
    and/or drawers.
    Unfortunately, because the trap is located directly below the
  5 tailpiece and, in turn, the drain opening of the sink or
    vanity basin, there is very little space between the trap and
    the door, or between the trap and often a shelf located below
    the trap, for storing kitchen and/or bathroom items.
 0  It is therefore an aim of the present invention to provide a
    connector for connecting a sink or vanity basin waste to a
    trap that will enable the space beneath a wall mounted sink or
    vanity basin to be better utilized.
  5 With the foregoing and other objects in view, this invention
    relates to a connector for connecting the lower end, or
    tailpiece, of a sink or vanity basin waste to a trap, said
    connector including:
 10        an inlet portion in which there is formed an inlet
    passage, and which includes an inlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said inlet passage, and a first bend
    in said inlet passage that is located downstream of said inlet
25  opening;
           an outlet portion in which there is formed an outlet
    passage, and which includes an outlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said outlet passage, and a second
30  bend in said outlet passage that is located upstream of said
    outlet opening, and
           an intermediate portion, in which there is formed an
    intermediate passage, said intermediate portion being
    connected to, or capable of connection to, said inlet portion
    iART04147 6March2018

    and said outlet portion such that said inlet passage,
    intermediate passage and said outlet passage are in fluid
    communication, said intermediate portion having an external
    non-circular       transverse cross-sectional shape.
 5
    Preferably the external transverse cross-sectional shape of
    the inlet portion generally resembles the internal transverse
    cross-sectional shape of the inlet passage.
 0
    Preferably the inlet portion includes an inlet transition
    portion wherein the external transverse cross-sectional shape
    of the inlet portion changes from being substantially circular
    to the non-circular transverse-cross-sectional shape of the
 5  intermediate portion. Preferably this transition portion
    incorporates the bend of the inlet portion.
    Preferably the external transverse cross-sectional shape of
    the outlet portion generally resembles the internal transverse
 '0 cross-sectional shape of the outlet passage.
    Preferably the outlet portion includes an outlet transition
    portion wherein the external transverse cross-sectional shape
    of the outlet portion changes from the non-circular
25  transverse-cross-sectional       shape of the intermediate portion
    to being substantially circular.        Preferably this transition
    portion incorporates the bend of the outlet portion.
    The inlet portion preferably includes connecting means for
30  connecting the inlet portion to an item of plumbing, such as
    the lower end, or tailpiece, of a sink or vanity waste. For
    example, the connecting means may include a slip nut.
    iART04147 6March2018

                                   4
    The outlet portion preferably includes connecting means for
    connecting the outlet portion to an item of plumbing, such as
    a trap. For example, the connecting means may include an
    external threaded portion of the outlet portion.
 5
    In order to save space under the sink or vanity basin it is
    preferred that the distance separating the inlet opening and
    the inlet bend is minimal. It is also preferred that the angle
    of the bend of the inlet portion closely approximates 90
 0  degrees.
    Preferably the external transverse cross-sectional shape of
    the intermediate portion generally resembles the internal
    transverse cross-sectional shape of the intermediate passage.
 5
    To further minimise the space taken up by the connector, it is
    preferred that the external transverse cross-sectional shape
    of the intermediate portion has a minor axis that is smaller
    than its major axis. For example, the major axis may be in the
 '0 order of 20% longer than the minor axis.
    In one embodiment, the transverse cross-sectional shape of the
    intermediate portion may be substantially elliptical. However,
    in other embodiments the external transverse cross-sectional
25  shape of the intermediate portion may be generally
    rectangular.
    The external transverse cross-sectional shape of the
    intermediate portion is preferably constant along all, or
30  substantially all, of the length of the intermediate portion.
    Further, it is preferred that the transverse cross-sectional
    area of the inlet passage, intermediate passage and outlet
    passages are the same, or substantially the same.
    iART04147 6March2018

                                     5
    The inlet portion, intermediate portion and the outlet portion
    may be separate articles. Alternatively, the inlet portion and
    the intermediate portion, or the intermediate portion and the
    outlet portion may be formed integrally.
 5
    In another aspect, this invention relates to a method of
    connecting the lower end, or tailpiece, of a sink or vanity
    basin waste to a trap that is not located directly below the
    waste, said method including:
 0
           providing a connector including:
           an inlet portion in which there is formed an inlet
    passage, and which includes an inlet opening having a
 5  substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said inlet passage, and a first bend
    in said inlet passage that is located downstream of said inlet
    opening;
           an outlet portion in which there is formed an outlet
 '0 passage, and which includes an outlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said outlet passage, and a second
    bend in said outlet passage that is located upstream of said
    outlet opening;
25         an intermediate portion in which there is formed an
    intermediate passage that is connected to said inlet portion
    and said outlet portion such that said inlet passage,
    intermediate passage and said outlet passage are in fluid
    communication, said intermediate portion having a non-circular
30  transverse cross-section;
           first connection means associated with said inlet portion
    for connecting said inlet opening to the waste, and
           second connection means for connecting the outlet opening
    to the trap;
    iART04147 6March2018

                                         6
          connecting the inlet opening to the waste using the first
   connection means,       and
          connecting the outlet opening to the trap using the
 5 second connection means.
   In order that this invention may be more easily understood and
   put into practical affect, reference will now be made to the
   accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred embodiment
 0 of the invention wherein:
          FIG. 1 is a pictorial view of a connector that has been
          constructed in accordance with the present invention;
          FIG. 2 is a side view of the connector shown in figure 1;
 5        FIG. 3 is a front view of the connector shown in figure
   1;
          FIG. 4 is a rear view of the connector shown in figure 1;
          FIG. 5 is a top view of the connector shown in figure 1;
          FIG.   6 is a bottom view of the connector shown in figure
 0 1,  and
          FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional side view of the connector
   shown in figure      1.
   Figures    1 to 7 show a connector 10 for connecting the lower
25 end, or tailpiece, of a sink or vanity basin waste to a trap.
   The connector 10 includes an inlet portion 11 and an outlet
   portion 12,      and an intermediate portion 13   that is connected
   to,   and in fluid communication with, said inlet portion and
   said outlet portion.
30
   The inlet portion 11 includes a body 14 in which there is
   formed a passage 15,        and an inlet opening 16, having a
   substantially circular transverse cross-sectional shape,        that
   is located at an upstream end of said passage. The passage 15
   iART04147 6March2018

                                   7
    of the inlet portion 11 also includes a bend 17 that is
    located adjacent to, and downstream of, the inlet opening 16,
    and wherein the angle of the bend closely approximates 90
    degrees.
 5
    The inlet portion 11 further includes a transition portion 18
    wherein the internal transverse cross-sectional shape of the
    passage 15 changes from being substantially circular to a
    substantially rectangular transverse-cross-sectional shape,
 0  and wherein the transition occurs in the vicinity of the bend
    17.
    Further, the external shape of the inlet portion 11 generally
    resembles the internal shape of the inlet passage 15.
 5
    The inlet portion 11 also includes connecting means 20 for
    connecting the inlet portionll to the tailpiece of a sink or
    vanity basin, and wherein the tailpiece includes an end
    portion having an external thread. The connecting means 20
 '0 includes a slip nut 21 that is slideably mounted on the inlet
    portion 11, between the bend 17 and the inlet opening 16.   The
    slip nut 21 includes a threaded bore 22, that is adapted to
    threadably engage the threaded end portion of the tailpiece,
    and a lower, inwardly directed, annular flange 23 that in use
25  may abut against an annular protrusion 24 and an abutment 25
    located on the exterior of the inlet portion 11
    The outlet portion 12 includes a body 26 in which there is
    formed a passage 27, and an outlet opening 28, having a
30  substantially circular transverse cross-sectional shape, that
    is located at a downstream end of said passage. The passage 27
    of the outlet portion 12 also includes a bend 29 that is
    located adjacent to, and upstream of, the outlet opening 28,
    iART04147 6March2018

                                         8
    and wherein the angle of the bend closely approximates 90
    degrees.
    The outlet portion 12       further includes a transition portion 30
 5  wherein the internal transverse cross-sectional shape of the
    passage 27 changes from being substantially rectangular to
    substantially circular, and wherein the transition occurs in
    the vicinity of the bend 29.
 0  Further, the external shape of the outlet portion 12 generally
    resembles the internal shape of the outlet passage 27.
    The outlet portion 12 also includes connecting means 31 for
    connecting the outlet portion to one end of a trap, said end
 5  having a slip nut.       The connecting means 31 includes an
    external threaded portion 32,       located adjacent the outlet
    opening 28,      that is adapted to threadably engage the slip nut
    of the trap,       and wherein the outlet portion 12 includes an
    annular abutment 33,       extending outwardly from the outlet
 '0 portion 12,      partway between the outlet opening 28 and the bend
    29,   against which the slip nut, in use, may abut.
    The intermediate portion 13       includes a thin walled, elongate,
    tubular body portion 34       in which there is formed a passage 35
25  having a substantially rectangular shaped transverse cross
    section that is constant       along its length.
    Further, the external shape of the intermediate portion 13
    generally resembles the internal shape of the intermediate
30  passage 35.
    The intermediate portion 13       is formed integrally with the
    inlet portion 11 and whereby an upstream end of the passage 35
    is in fluid communication with the passage 15.
    iART04147 6March2018

                                      9
    The body 34 also includes a free downstream end portion 36
    that has    an external shape that compliments the internal shape
    of the upstream end of the passage 27     and wherein the
 5  downstream end portion, when located in the passage 27,      forms
    a close fit with the body 26.
    In use,    the inlet portion 11 is connected to a tailpiece of a
    sink or basin waste using the slip nut 21, while the threaded
 0  end portion 32 of the outlet portion 13 is connected to a trap
    using the trap's slip nut.    If need be,  the length of the
    intermediate portion 13 may be shortened, by cutting a piece
    of the intermediate portion off the    free end thereof.
 5  In the case of wall mounted sinks and basins, a box like
    structure is often erected around the drainage     system so as to
    conceal the unsightly arrangement of pipes, including the
    trap. By using the connector 10 it is possible to position the
    trap either to the rear and/or one side of the box like
 '0 structure. This, it    is believed, will provide more  space
    immediately beneath the sink or vanity basin outlet for
    shelving and/or drawers, such as a drawer that extends only
    partway from the front to the rear of the structure. Further,
    by employing an intermediate portion having a non-circular
25  transverse cross-section, it is believed that the wasted space
    within the structure immediately below the sink or vanity
    basin will be less than if the intermediate portion had a
    circular transverse cross-sectional shape.     The space gained
    may permit the user to accommodate an extra drawer beneath the
30  sink or vanity basin. Alternatively, a user may be able to
    store    taller items on a shelf that is located below the sink
    or vanity basin.
    iART04147 6March2018

                                 10
  It will of course be realised that while the foregoing
  description has been given by way of example of the invention,
  all other modifications and variations thereto as would be
  apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall
5 within the broad scope and ambit of this invention as herein
  defined in the appended claims.
  iART04147 6March2018

                                            11
    THE     CLAIMS DEFINING      THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.       A connector for connecting the lower end, or tailpiece,
    of a sink or vanity basin waste to a trap, said connector
 5  including:
              an inlet portion in which there is formed an inlet
    passage, and which includes an inlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
 0  fluid communication with said inlet passage, and a first bend
    in said inlet passage that is located downstream of said inlet
    opening;
              an outlet portion in which there is formed an outlet
    passage, and which includes an outlet opening having a
 5  substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said outlet passage, and a second
    bend in said outlet passage that is located upstream of said
    outlet opening, and
              an intermediate portion, in which there is formed an
 '0 intermediate passage, said intermediate portion being
    connected to, or capable of connection to, said inlet portion
    and said outlet portion such that said inlet passage,
    intermediate passage and said outlet passage are in fluid
    communication, said intermediate portion having an external
25  non-circular transverse cross-sectional shape.
    2.       A connector as claimed in claim 1, wherein said inlet
    portion includes an inlet transition portion wherein the
    transverse cross-sectional shape of said inlet portion changes
30  from being substantially circular to the non-circular
    transverse-cross-sectional shape of said intermediate portion.
    3.       A connector as claimed in any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein said outlet portion includes an outlet
     ADT[)A  1 A'7 4
                   A 4-.-.1fl1 Q

                                       12
    transition portion wherein the transverse cross-sectional
    shape of said outlet portion changes from the non-circular
    transverse-cross-sectional shape of said intermediate portion
    to being substantially circular.
  5
    4.      A connector as claimed in any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein said bends are approximately 90 degrees.
    5.      A method of connecting the lower end, or tailpiece, of a
 0  sink or vanity basin waste to a trap that is not located
    directly below the waste, said method including:
            providing a connector including:
  5          an inlet portion in which there is formed an inlet
    passage, and which includes an inlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said inlet passage, and a first bend
    in said inlet passage that is located downstream of said inlet
 '0 opening;
             an outlet portion in which there is formed an outlet
    passage, and which includes an outlet opening having a
    substantially circular transverse cross-section that is in
    fluid communication with said outlet passage, and a second
25  bend in said outlet passage that is located upstream of said
    outlet opening;
             an intermediate portion in which there is formed an
    intermediate passage that is connected to said inlet portion
    and said outlet portion such that said inlet passage,
30  intermediate passage and said outlet passage are in fluid
    communication, said intermediate portion having a non-circular
    transverse cross-section;
             first connection means associated with said inlet portion
    for connecting said inlet opening to the waste, and
     ADT)AA1 1A7 4
                 A 4-I-- 1fl1 Q

                                     13
           second connection means for connecting the outlet opening
  to the trap;
           connecting the inlet opening to the waste using the first
5 connection means,           and
           connecting the outlet opening to the trap using the
  second connection means.
   ADT)AA 1 A'7 4 ,--I-'1fl1Q

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
