                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention generally concerns particular methods and compositions for treatment
of a neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer' sDisease.    In particular embodiments,
there is a composition comprising Parthenolide and a second agent, including an inhibitor of
TLR4/MD-2/CD14, nAChR agonist, Resatorvid, Curcumin, Tilorone or a Tilorone analog, or
a combination thereof.

                                         DESCRIPTION
COMBINATORIAL DRUGS FOR TREATMENT OF ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND
                      OTHER NEURODEGENERATIVE DISORDERS
             This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013264943,
the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
             [0001]      The present invention generally concerns at least the fields of cell
biology, molecular biology, and medicine.         In particular aspects, the field of the present
invention include treatment and/or prevention of neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) in a
mammal.
                                        BACKGROUND
             [0002]    NDDs are hereditary and sporadic conditions which are characterized by
progressive nervous system dysfunction (Bredesen, et al 2006). NDDs include diseases such
as   Alzheimer's    disease   (AD),   Parkinson's   disease    (PD), Multiple    Sclerosis  (MS),
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease), Huntington's disease, Prion
diseases, and others (Ekshyyan and Aw 2004). For example, Alzheimer' s disease (AD) is the
most common type of dementia and is associated with progressive loss of mental activities
and memory (Salawu, et al 2011). The nature of the neurodegeneration in AD suggests an
age-dependent process that ultimately leads to dendritic and neuronal damage throughout the
brain (Isacson, et al 2002). This fact is highlighted in the 2011 Alzheimer' s Disase Facts and
Figures in the USA, as an estimated 5.2 million people aged 65 and older have AD and
200,000 individuals under age 65 who have early-onset AD, with an associated healthcare
cost           in          excess          of          US$183            billion          annually
(http://www.alz.org/downloads/FactsFigures_2011 .pdf).
             [0003]      AD is the most common type of dementia and is associated with
progressive loss of mental processes and memory (Salawu, et al 2011). Mutation of the
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene appears to be a major genetic susceptibility risk factor for the
development of typical late-onset AD (Liu, et al 2007). In contrast to late onset AD, early
onset AD or familial AD is rare and is inherited due to genetic mutations of the presenilin 1
                                                  -1-

(PS-1) and presenilin 2 (PS-2) genes accompanied by mutations of the amyloid precursor
protein (APP) gene (Scheuner, et al 1996). The APP gene codes for the amyloid          P (AP)
peptides that are the primary component of senile plaques (Goedert and Spillantini 2006). AD
arises from the AP peptides triggering neuronal cell death. However, the development and
progression of AD is not only influenced by the gene's effect on amyloid plaque and
intracellular tangle formation but also by environmental factors, such as cytokines and
neurotoxins.
             [0004]      AD is characterized by neuronal loss of the superficial cortex and
synaptic alterations, such as reduction of pre-synaptic terminal density (Cummings, et al
1998). Microscopically, the two identifying cardinal features of AD are amyloid plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles. The prevailing model for AD causation is the so-called "amyloid
hypothesis" that ascribes a causative role in AD to abnormal amyloid processing and deposits
(Hardy and Selkoe 2002). It has been demonstrated that a decrease in the neurotransmitter
acetylcholine (Ach) has a direct impact on memory loss, and thus the loss of cholinergic
neurons may underlie memory loss in AD (Babic 1999). It has also been demonstrated that
the progression of AD is further complemented with glutaminergic, noradrenergic, and
serotonergic system deficiencies that deteriorates cognitive and memory loss. Modest success
in improving AD symptoms has been achieved with therapeutics (such as memantine,
galantamine, rivastigmine and donepezil) that focuses on correcting neurotransmitter deficits.
             [0005]     It has also been demonstrated that levels of cholinergic activity and
neuronal    nicotinic  acetylcholine  receptor (nAChR)      activity decreases  with   disease
progression of AD. The AChR subtypes implicated in the progression of AD include the 4
and d containing nAChR subtypes (Liu, et al 2009,      Mousavi, et al 2003). This finding has
been supported by recent studies that demonstrate that Af eptides can directly and indirectly
affect nAChR-mediated synaptic transmission (Srivareerat, et al 2011) and that nAChR
agonists increase sAPPasecretion whilst decreasing       levels of Appeptides (Mousavi and
Hellstrom- Lindahl 2009).
             [0006]    The mechanism by which Af eptides induce the neuro nal cell death is
not clear. However, numerous mechanisms such as intracellular calcium accumulation,
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) productions, alteration of the
cytoskeleton and nucleus and inflammatory processes that converge to the ubiquitous
pathways of necrosis or apoptosis have been proposed. Since the AD brain is characterized
                                                -2-

by an ongoing chronic inflammatory process, research is directed at finding the root of this
inflammatory response. It has been demonstrated that specialized cells in the brain such as
astrocytes and microglia are increased in the brain of AD patients (Itagaki, et al 1989).
Reactive astrocytes showed increased levels of phospholipase A2 that induces increased
activity in the arachidonic acid/prostaglandin inflammatory pathway (Moses, et al 2006).
However, recent findings suggest that As indirectly neurotoxic by        activating microglia to
produce ROS (Parihar and Hemnani 2004). Moreover, it has also been demonstrated that
activated microglial cells express neurotoxic compounds (including superoxides, glutamate
and NO) (Brown and Bal-Price 2003, Marzolo, et al 1999) and secrete interleukin-1 (IL-1),
natural killer and antigen presenting cells (Giulian 1987). It has additionally been shown that
cytotoxic and helper T lymphocyte infiltration enhance the levels of major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) glycoproteins on activated microglia (Rogers, et al 1992) that is associated
with compact senile plaques.
             [0007]     Cytokines that control the recruitment of lymphocytes to the sites of
inflammation, has also been reported in senile plaques (Griffin, et al 1989). Moreover, it has
been demonstrated that levels of IL-I are increased in microglia around diffuse amyloid
plaques (Rogers, et al 1999) and that IL-I increases the translation of the mRNA encoded by
APP gene (Colton, et al 1994) leading to early onset of AD.
             [0008]   A recent study by Walter et al. demonstrated that supernatant of amyloid
peptide-stimulates   microglia    and that TLR4       contributes to amyloid peptide-induced
microglial neurotoxicity. In addition, stimulation experiments allowed for the identification
of a tri-molecular receptor complex consisting of TLR4, MD-2 and CD14 necessary for full
cellular activation by aggregated amyloid peptide (Walter, et al 2007). Additionally,
Burguillos et al. (2011) demonstrated that pro-inflammatory stimuli induced activation of
caspase-8, -3 and -7 in microglia without triggering cell death. The activation of these
caspases was further shown to be dependent on TLR4 but independent of MyD88
(Burguillos, et al 2011).
             [0009]    Interestingly, apoptosis after TLR2 activation has been demonstrated to
be associated with the formation of a myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88)/Fas
associated death domain protein (FADD)/Caspase-8 complex (Aliprantis, et al 2000).
Moreover, Burguillos et al. demonstrated that inhibition of the proinflammatory stimuli
induced cascade in microglia prevents neurodegeneration in individuals with AD and PD
                                                 -3 -

(Burguillos, et al 2011). Thus non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are useful in patients
having risk for AD, in at least certain aspects.
             [0010]     The present invention provides a long-felt need in the art to improve
neurodegeneration in an individual afflicted thereby.
                           BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             [0011]     In embodiments of the invention, there are methods and compositions
related to treatment and/or prevention of neurodegenerative diseases (NDD) , including AD,
PD, MS, ALS, Huntington's disease, or Prion diseases, for example, and others. In specific
aspects of the invention, there are methods and compositions that comprise combinatorial
strategies for the treatment and/or prevention of AD. In some embodiments, the individual
being treated is known to have a NDD or is at risk for developing a NDD, including known to
have AD or is at risk for developing AD, as an example. Individuals at risk for AD include
those that are 65 years or older, that have defects in the ApoE gene, have defects in presenilin
1 or presenilin 2, and/or have defects in the APP gene, and so forth.
             [0012]    In certain embodiments of the invention, there are combination therapies
and/or combination preventative measures that include Parthenolide (laR, 7aS, 1OaS, lObS)
1a,5-dimethyl-8-methylene-2,3,6,7,7a,8, 1Oa, 1Ob-octahydrooxireno[9, 1O]cyclodeca[ 1,2-b]
furan-9(laH)-one) and one or more other compounds. In specific embodiments, there are the
following exemplary combinations:        1) Parthenolide and one or more inhibitors of the tri
molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14); 2) Parthenolide and Resatorvid; 3)
Parthenolide, Resatorvid and Curcumin; 4) Parthenolide, an inhibitor of or inhibitors of the
tri-molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14) and one or more nACHR agonist(s); 5)
Parthenolide,     Resatorvid     and    Tilorone    (trade   name    Amixin      IC;  2,7-Bis(2
diethylaminoethoxy)fluorine-9-one) (or Tilorone analog(s), such as Tilorone analog R11
567DA      (2,8-Bis(dimethylaminoacetyl)dibenzofuran       hydrate  dihydrochloride),   Tilorone
analog R11-877DA (2,8-diylbis((N-carbonylmethylene)dimethylamine)             dibenzothiophene),
and/or Tilorone analog R10,874DA (3,6-Bis[2-(Dimethylamino)ethoxy]-9H-xanthen-9-one
dihydrochloride 3,6-Bis[2-(dimethylamino)ethoxy]-9H-xanthen-9-one          dihydrochloride)); 6)
Parthenolide, Resatorvid, Curcumin and Tilorone (or Tilorone analog(s)); 7) Parthenolide and
nACHR agonist(s); 8) Parthenolide and Tilorone (or Tilorone analog(s)); 9) any of the above
listed combinations in combination with one or more other NDDs treatments, including any
                                                 -4-

AD treatment (including for treating one or more symptoms of the NDD); and/or 10)
Parthenolide and any known NDD treatment, including any AD treatment (including for
treating one or more symptoms of the neurodegenerative disease).
             [0013]      In particular embodiments of the invention, Parthenolide and one or
more other compounds act synergistically in the treatment and/or prevention of one or more
NDD in an individual, whereas in some embodiments Parthenolide and one or more other
compounds act additively in the treatment and/or prevention of one or more NDD in an
individual.
             [0014]    In certain embodiments of the invention, the methods and compositions
reduce the progression of AD, and in some embodiments the methods and compositions of
the invention are effective to treat a larger spectrum of AD patients than is possible now with
the symptomatic therapies. In particular embodiments the invention facilitates treatment of
the progression of a NDD, and in certain embodiments facilitates treatment of at least one
symptom of a NDD. In certain cases the invention is effective for individuals having early
onset or familial AD.
             [0015]     In exemplary embodiments, one or more of the following TLR-4/MD
2/CD14 inhibitors are employed: Atorvastatin (Ajamieh, et al 2012), Betulinic acid (Wan, et
al 2012), Follistatin-related protein (FRP) (Murakami, et al 2012), Hyaluronic acid (Riehl, et
al 2012), Inulin (Nagahara, et al 2011), Dienogest (Mita, et al 2011), Lactoferrin (LF)
(Puddu, et al 2011), Fumigaclavine C (FC) (Du, et al 2011), Vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP) (21693218), MD2-I (Liu, et al 2011), Long chain n-3 PUFA (EPA and DHA) (Ibrahim,
et al 2011), Helenalin (Zhao, et al 2011), Cinnamaldehyde (Zhao, et al 2011), Sulforaphane
(Zhao, et al 2011), Eritoran tetrasodium (Tidswell and LaRosa 2011), Kaempferol (Park, et al
2011), Rosiglitazone (Wu, et al 2011), Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) (Tian, et al 2011),
Triptolide (Yu, et al 2011), Ferulic acid (FA) (Kim, et al 2011), Baicalin (Tu, et al 2011),
Zileuton (Tu, et al 2010), Isoliquiritigenin (Park and Youn 2010), 6-shogaol (Ahn, et al
2009), Acrolein (Lee, et al 2008), E5564 (Kitazawa, et al 2010), Chalcone (Roh, et al 2010),
Chalcone derivative:      2',4-dihydroxy-6'-isopentyloxychalcone   (JSH) (Roh, et al 2010),
MDMP      (Duan, et al 2010), and/or 9,10-Dihydro-2,5-dimethoxyphenanthrene-1,7-diol
(RSCL-0520) (Datla, et al 2010).
                                                 -5 -

             [0016]     In some embodiments, one or more of the following nACHR agonists
are employed:        5-(4-acetyl[1,4]diazepan-1-yl)pentanoic    acid [5-(4-methoxyphenyl)-1H
pyrazol-3-yl] amide (25, SEN15924, WAY-361789) (Zanaletti, et al 2012), SEN12333
(Roncarati,    et  al    2009),   SEN12333/WAY-317538          (Haydar,   et    al 2009),    4-(5
methyloxazolo[4,5-b]pyridin-2-yl)-1,4-diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonane            (24,     CP-810,123)
(O'Donnell,     et al 2010),     N-[(3R,5R)-1-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl]furo[2,3-c]pyridine-5
carboxamide (3a, PHA-709829) (Acker, et al 2008), N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-7
[2-(methoxy)phenyl]-1-benzofuran-2-carboxamide (ABBF) (Boess, et al 2007), 5-(6-[(3R)-1
azabicyclo[2,2,2]oct-3-yloxy]pyridazin-3-yl)-1H-indole     (ABT-107) (Malysz, et al 2010), 4
(5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-methyl-3-propionyl-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)benzenesulfonamide           (A-867744)
(Malysz,      et    al    2009),    N-[(3R)-1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]furo[2,3-c]pyridine-5
carboxamide (14, PHA-543,613) (Wishka, et al 2006), (R)-3'-(3-methylbenzo[b]thiophen-5
yl)spiro[1-azabicyclo[2,2,2]octane-3,5'-oxazolidin]-2'-one    (Tatsumi, et al 2006), (R)-3'-(5
Chlorothiophen-2-yl)spiro-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-3,5'-[1',3']oxazolidin-2'-one       (Tatsumi,
et al 2005), N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide         hydrochloride (PNU
282987) (Hajos, et al 2005), WYE-103914/SEN34625 (Marquis, et al 2011) and/or 1-[6-(4
fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]-3-(4-piperidin-1-ylbutyl)        urea     (SEN34625/WYE-103914)
(Ghiron, et al 2010).
             [0017]     In some embodiments, there is a composition comprising Parthenolide
and at least a second agent, wherein said second agent is selected from the group consisting
of: a) one or more inhibitors of the tri-molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14); b)
one or more nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nACHR) agonists; c) a neurodegenerative
disease treatment; and d) a combination thereof. In specific embodiments, an inhibitor of
TLR4/MD-2/CD14 is selected from the group consisting of Curcumin, Resatorvid, and a
combination thereof. In some embodiments, a nACHR agonist is selected from the group
consisting of Tilorone, Tilorone analog R 1-567DA, Tilorone analog R 1-877DA, Tilorone
analog R10,874DA, and a combination thereof. In certain aspects, Parthenolide and the
second agent are in a mixture ore are housed separately.         In particular embodiments, the
composition comprises Parthenolide and at least one inhibitor of TLR4/MD-2/CD14;
comprises Parthenolide and Resatorvid; comprises Parthenolide and Curcumin; comprises
Parthenolide and one or more nACHR agonists; comprises Parthenolide and Tilorone or
Parthenolide and at least one Tilorone analog; and/or comprises Parthenolide and a
neurodegenerative disease treatment, such as an Alzheimer' s Disease treatment.
                                                 -6-

             [0018]    In specific embodiments of the invention, the ratio of Parthenolide to a
second agent in the composition is 1:1, 1:2, 1:10, 1:50, 1:100, 1:500, 1:1000, 2:1, 10:1, 50:1,
100:1, 500:1, or 1000:1. In some aspects, the composition has a form that is a tablet, liquid,
lozenge, injectable composition, or dissolvable film. In some cases, Parthenolide and the
second agent are of the same form or are in different forms.
             [0019]   In some embodiments, there is a method of treating a neurodegenerative
disease in an individual, comprising the step of delivering to the individual a therapeutically
effective amount of a composition of the invention. In some embodiments, a method further
comprises the step of delivering to the individual an additional neurodegenerative disease
treatment. In some cases, Parthenolide and the second agent are delivered concomitantly to
the individual or are delivered at separate times to the individual. The composition may be
delivered orally, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously, in specific embodiments.
Any two compositions may be delivered to an individual via separate delivery routes or the
same delilvery route, and the timing may or may not be simultaneous. In specific
embodiments, the composition is delivered to the individual more than once. In some cases,
the composition is delivered to the individual at least once daily. In specific embodiments,
the composition is delivered to the individual more than once a day, more than once a week,
once a week, once a month, or once a year. In particular aspects, a method further comprises
the step of diagnosing neurodegenerative disease in the individual.
             [0020]     In some embodiments, there is a kit comprising a composition of the
invention, said composition housed in a suitable container or in suitable containers.
             [0021]     Other and further objects, features, and advantages would be apparent
and eventually more readily understood by reading the following specification and be
reference to the accompanying drawings forming a part thereof, or any examples of the
presently preferred embodiments of the invention given for the purpose of the disclosure.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             [0022]  For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is
now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawing, in which:
                                                -7-

             [00231    FIG. 1 is a graphical representation of an exemplary methodology used
to identify a drug for the treatment of AD.
             [0024]         FIG. 2 shows a scheme illustrating the potential pathway of
inflammatory response in microglia (from Burguillos et al. Nature, 472, 319-324, 2011).
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             [0025]       As used herein, the use of the word "a" or "an" when used in
conjunction with the term "comprising" in the claims and/or the specification may mean
"one," but it is also consistent with the meaning of "one or more," "at least one," and "one or
more than one." Some embodiments of the invention may consist of or consist essentially of
one or more elements, method steps, and/or methods of the invention. It is contemplated that
any method or composition described herein can be implemented with respect to any other
method or composition described herein.
  I.    General Embodiments of the Invention
             [0026]       In general embodiments of the invention, there are combinatorial
compositions that comprise Parthenolide and at least one other compound for the treatment of
a NDD, such as AD. The compositions may be provided to an individual for prevention or
delay of AD, including in some embodiments delaying the onset of AD until a later age or
preventing the onset of AD. In alternative embodiments, however, the compositions alleviate
or eradicate at least one symptom of AD. In some cases, both improvement of at least one
symptom and effective delay of onset of AD is achieved with methods and compositions of
the invention.
             [0027]    In some embodiments of the invention, an individual is treated that is 65
years of age or older, although in certain embodiments the individual has early onset (also
known as younger-onset) AD, such as an individual in their 40' s or 50' s.In some aspects,
the individual has familiar AD.
             [0028]       The present invention employs Parthenolide and another or more
agent(s) for a synergistic or, in some cases, additive, effect to improve or decrease the rate of
neurodegeneration in an individual in need thereof.
                                                -8-

             [0029]    Although Parthenolide is generally recognized as an apoptosis inducer,
in some embodiments of the invention Parthenolide inhibits the proapoptotic function of NF
B and , consequently, apoptosis, rather than inducing apoptosis in microglia.         In some
embodiments of the invention, Parthenolide acts as a proapoptotic inhibitor and is combined
with other agent(s), such as inhibitor(s) of the tri-molecular complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14)
(including Resatorvid and/or Curcumin or a combination thereof) and/or nACHR agonist(s)
including Tilorone or Tilorone analog, or a combination thereof.
  I.    Treatment of Alzheimer' s Disease
             [0030]    Currently, no therapy has been developed that will prevent or delay AD
progression (Roberson and Mucke 2006). Present therapies treat one or more symptoms of
AD, including memory loss that disrupts daily life; challenges in planning or solving
problems, difficulty completing familiar tasks at home, at work or at leisure, confusion with
time or place, trouble understanding visual images and spatial relationships, new problems
with words in speaking or writing, misplacing things and losing the ability to retrace steps,
decreased or poor judgment, withdrawal from work or social activities, changes in mood and
personality (Alzheimer' s Associatioi).
             [0031]    The currently available symptomatic therapies for AD mildly improve
defects in cognitive function, activities of daily living (ADLs) and global functioning
(Mangialasche, et al 2011). United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved
drugs for the treatment of AD includes memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine and donepezil,
albeit they are not curative.
             [0032]     Drugs that treat the symptoms of AD based on the enhancement of
neurotransmitter systems include the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors (donepezil,
galantamine and rivastigmine) that reduce the enzymatic degradation of the neurotransmitter
Ach, thus enhancing the cholinergic system in the AD brain. These three AChE inhibitors
improve cognition, function in ADL, and behavior in patients with AD (Doody, et al 2001,
Roberson and Mucke 2006) and are most effective in treating mild to moderate AD
(Geldmacher 2004, Geldmacher 2008). Another drug that treats the symptoms of AD based
on the enhancement of neurotransmitter systems is the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)
receptor antagonist, memantine. Memantine is the first FDA approved drug for the treatment
of moderate to severe AD (Witt, et al 2004) and has been demonstrated to improve cognitive
function (Atri, et al 2008). Additionally, patients with moderate to severe AD treated with
                                                -9-

memantine      in combination    with   the AChE       inhibitors (donepezil,  galantamine,  or
rivastigmine) significantly slowed the deterioration in both cognitive function and ADLs
compared to patients treated with the AChE inhibitors alone (Atri, et al 2008).
             [0033]      Thus, in certain aspects, cholinesterase inhibitors (Aricept, Exelon,
Razadyne, Cognex) and/or memantine (Namenda) are employed to address the cognitive
symptoms (memory loss, confusion, and problems with thinking and reasoning) of
Alzheimer's disease.
             [0034]    In some cases, individuals utilize herbal remedies, dietary supplements
or medical foods, such as one or more of the following: caprylic acid; coconut oil; coenzyme
QI0; coral calcium; ginkgo biloba; Huperzine A; Omega-3 fatty acids; phosphatidylserine;
and/or tramiprosate.
             [0035]        Any of the aforementioned compounds may be employed in
embodiments of the present invention.
             [0036]      In some embodiments of the invention, an individual suspected of
having or known to have AD or an individual that is 65 years of age or older is subjected to
methods and compositions of the invention. In particular embodiments, an individual is also
subjected to diagnosis of AD, which may include a thorough medical history; mental status
testing; a physical and neurological exam; and/or tests (such as blood tests and brain imaging)
to rule out other causes of dementia-like symptoms.
III.    Pharmaceutical Preparations
             [00371      Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise an
effective amount of one or more Parthenolide/second agent compositions dissolved or
dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. When Parthenolide and the second agent
are housed and/or delivered separately, they each are dissolved or dispersed in a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The phrases "pharmaceutical or pharmacologically
acceptable" refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce an adverse,
allergic or other untoward reaction when administered to an animal, such as, for example, a
human, as appropriate.     The preparation of an pharmaceutical composition that contains at
least one Parthenolide combinatorial composition will be known to those of skill in the art in
light of the present disclosure, as exemplified by Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th
                                                - 10 -

Ed. Mack Printing Company, 1990, incorporated herein by reference. Moreover, for animal
(e.g., human) administration, it will be understood that preparations should meet sterility,
pyrogenicity, general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biological
Standards.
             [0038]     As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and
all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, surfactants, antioxidants, preservatives (e.g.,
antibacterial agents, antifungal agents), isotonic agents, absorption delaying agents, salts,
preservatives, drugs,      drug stabilizers,  gels, binders, excipients, disintegration       agents,
lubricants, sweetening agents, flavoring agents, dyes, such like materials and combinations
thereof, as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art (see, for example, Remington's
Pharmaceutical      Sciences, 18th Ed. Mack Printing Company,              1990, pp. 1289-1329,
incorporated herein by reference). Except insofar as any conventional carrier is incompatible
with the active ingredient, its use in the pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated.
             [0039]       The Parthenolide combinatorial composition may comprise different
types of carriers depending on whether it is to be administered in solid, liquid or aerosol
form, and whether it need to be sterile for such routes of administration as injection. The
present    invention    can    be  administered    intravenously,   intradermally,   transdermally,
intrathecally,   intraarterially, intraperitoneally,   intranasally, intravaginally,   intrarectally,
topically, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, mucosally, orally, topically, locally, inhalation
(e.g., aerosol inhalation), injection, infusion, continuous infusion, localized perfusion bathing
target cells directly, via a catheter, via a lavage, in cremes, in lipid compositions (e.g.,
liposomes), or by other method or any combination of the forgoing as would be known to one
of ordinary skill in the art (see, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed.
Mack Printing Company, 1990, incorporated herein by reference).
             [0040]      The Parthenolide combinatorial composition may be formulated into a
composition in a free base, neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts, include
the acid addition salts, e.g., those formed with the free amino groups of a proteinaceous
composition, or which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example, hydrochloric or
phosphoric acids, or such organic acids as acetic, oxalic, tartaric or mandelic acid.           Salts
formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for
example, sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium or ferric hydroxides; or such organic bases
as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, histidine or procaine. Upon formulation, solutions will
                                                  - 11 -

be administered in a manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as is
therapeutically effective. The formulations are easily administered in a variety of dosage
forms such as formulated for parenteral administrations such as injectable solutions, or
aerosols for delivery to the lungs, or formulated for alimentary administrations such as drug
release capsules and the like.
             [0041]    Further in accordance with the present invention, the composition of the
present invention suitable for administration is provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier with or without an inert diluent. The carrier should be assimilable and includes liquid,
semi-solid, i.e., pastes, or solid carriers. Except insofar as any conventional media, agent,
diluent or carrier is detrimental to the recipient or to the therapeutic effectiveness of a the
composition contained therein, its use in administrable composition for use in practicing the
methods of the present invention is appropriate. Examples of carriers or diluents include fats,
oils, water, saline solutions, lipids, liposomes, resins, binders, fillers and the like, or
combinations thereof. The composition may also comprise various antioxidants to retard
oxidation of one or more component.            Additionally, the prevention of the action of
microorganisms can be brought about by preservatives such as various antibacterial and
antifungal    agents,   including    but not   limited    to parabens    (e.g., methylparabens,
propylparabens), chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal or combinations thereof.
             [0042]    In accordance with the present invention, the composition is combined
with the carrier in any convenient and practical manner, i.e., by solution, suspension,
emulsification, admixture, encapsulation, absorption and the like.          Such procedures are
routine for those skilled in the art.
             [0043]     In a specific embodiment of the present invention, the composition is
combined or mixed thoroughly with a semi-solid or solid carrier. The mixing can be carried
out in any convenient manner such as grinding. Stabilizing agents can be also added in the
mixing process in order to protect the composition from loss of therapeutic activity, i.e.,
denaturation in the stomach. Examples of stabilizers for use in an the composition include
buffers, amino acids such as glycine and lysine, carbohydrates such as dextrose, mannose,
galactose, fructose, lactose, sucrose, maltose, sorbitol, mannitol, etc.
             [0044]    In further embodiments, the present invention may concern the use of a
pharmaceutical lipid vehicle compositions that include the Parthenolide combinatorial
                                                 -12-

composition, one or more lipids, and an aqueous solvent. As used herein, the term "lipid"
will be defined to include any of a broad range of substances that is characteristically
insoluble in water and extractable with an organic solvent. This broad class of compounds
are well known to those of skill in the art, and as the term "lipid" is used herein, it is not
limited to any particular structure. Examples include compounds which contain long-chain
aliphatic hydrocarbons and their derivatives. A lipid may be naturally occurring or synthetic
(i.e., designed or produced by man). However, a lipid is usually a biological substance.
Biological lipids are well known in the art, and include for example, neutral fats,
phospholipids,    phosphoglycerides,   steroids,    terpenes, lysolipids,   glycosphingolipids,
glycolipids, sulphatides, lipids with ether and ester-linked fatty acids and polymerizable
lipids, and combinations thereof. Of course, compounds other than those specifically
described herein that are understood by one of skill in the art as lipids are also encompassed
by the compositions and methods of the present invention.
             [0045]     One of ordinary skill in the art would be familiar with the range of
techniques that can be employed for dispersing a composition in a lipid vehicle. For example,
the Parthenolide combinatorial composition may be dispersed in a solution containing a lipid,
dissolved with a lipid, emulsified with a lipid, mixed with a lipid, combined with a lipid,
covalently bonded to a lipid, contained as a suspension in a lipid, contained or complexed
with a micelle or liposome, or otherwise associated with a lipid or lipid structure by any
means known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The dispersion may or may not result in the
formation of liposomes.
             [0046]     The actual dosage amount of a composition of the present invention
administered to an animal patient can be determined by physical and physiological factors
such as body weight, severity of condition, the type of disease being treated, previous or
concurrent therapeutic interventions, idiopathy of the patient and on the route of
administration. Depending upon the dosage and the route of administration, the number of
administrations of a preferred dosage and/or an effective amount may vary according to the
response of the subject. The practitioner responsible for administration will, in any event,
determine the concentration of active ingredient(s) in a composition and appropriate dose(s)
for the individual subject.
             [0047]   In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions may comprise, for
example, at least about 0.1% of an active compound. In other embodiments, the an active
                                               - 13  -

compound may comprise between about 2% to about 75% of the weight of the unit, or
between about 25% to about 60%, for example, and any range derivable therein. Naturally,
the amount of active compound(s) in each therapeutically useful composition may be
prepared is such a way that a suitable dosage will be obtained in any given unit dose of the
compound.     Factors such as solubility, bioavailability,       biological  half-life, route   of
administration, product shelf life, as well as other pharmacological considerations will be
contemplated by one skilled in the art of preparing such pharmaceutical formulations, and as
such, a variety of dosages and treatment regimens may be desirable.
             [0048]    In other non-limiting examples, a dose may also comprise from about 1
microgram/kg/body        weight,    about    5    microgram/kg/body       weight,      about    10
microgram/kg/body        weight,   about    50    microgram/kg/body       weight,     about   100
microgram/kg/body        weight,   about   200     microgram/kg/body      weight,     about   350
microgram/kg/body        weight,    about    500    microgram/kg/body       weight,     about    1
milligram/kg/body weight, about 5 milligram/kg/body weight, about 10 milligram/kg/body
weight, about 50 milligram/kg/body weight, about 100 milligram/kg/body weight, about 200
milligram/kg/body       weight,   about    350     milligram/kg/body      weight,    about    500
milligram/kg/body weight, to about 1000 mg/kg/body weight or more per administration, and
any range derivable therein. In non-limiting examples of a derivable range from the numbers
listed herein, a range of about 5 mg/kg/body weight to about 100 mg/kg/body weight, about 5
microgram/kg/body weight to about 500 milligram/kg/body weight, etc., can be administered,
based on the numbers described above.
            A. Alimentary Compositions and Formulations
             [0049]     In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the Parthenolide
combinatorial composition is formulated to be administered via an alimentary route.
Alimentary routes include all possible routes of administration in which the composition is in
direct contact with the alimentary tract.       Specifically, the pharmaceutical compositions
disclosed herein may be administered orally, buccally, rectally, or sublingually.        As such,
these compositions may be formulated with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible
carrier, or they may be enclosed in hard- or soft- shell gelatin capsule, or they may be
compressed into tablets, or they may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet.
             [0050]   In certain embodiments, the active compounds may be incorporated with
excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tables, troches, capsules, elixirs,
                                                - 14 -

suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like (Mathiowitz et al., 1997; Hwang et al., 1998; U.S.
Pat. Nos. 5,641,515; 5,580,579 and 5,792, 451, each specifically incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety). The tablets, troches, pills, capsules and the like may also contain the
following: a binder, such as, for example, gum tragacanth, acacia, cornstarch, gelatin or
combinations thereof; an excipient, such as, for example, dicalcium phosphate, mannitol,
lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, cellulose, magnesium carbonate or
combinations thereof; a disintegrating agent, such as, for example, corn starch, potato starch,
alginic acid or combinations thereof; a lubricant, such as, for example, magnesium stearate; a
sweetening agent, such as, for example, sucrose, lactose, saccharin or combinations thereof; a
flavoring agent, such as, for example peppermint, oil of wintergreen, cherry flavoring, orange
flavoring, etc.    When the dosage unit form is a capsule, it may contain, in addition to
materials of the above type, a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as
coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance, tablets,
pills, or capsules may be coated with shellac, sugar, or both. When the dosage form is a
capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the above type, carriers such as a liquid
carrier. Gelatin capsules, tablets, or pills may be enterically coated. Enteric coatings prevent
denaturation of the composition in the stomach or upper bowel where the pH is acidic. See,
e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,629,001.       Upon reaching the small intestines, the basic pH therein
dissolves the coating and permits the composition to be released and absorbed by specialized
cells, e.g., epithelial enterocytes and Peyer's patch M cells. A syrup of elixir may contain the
active compound sucrose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives,
a dye and flavoring, such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material used in
preparing any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non-toxic
in the amounts employed. In addition, the active compounds may be incorporated into
sustained-release preparation and formulations.
              [0051]     For oral administration the compositions of the present invention may
alternatively be incorporated with one or more excipients in the form of a mouthwash,
dentifrice, buccal tablet, oral spray, or sublingual orally- administered formulation. For
example, a mouthwash may be prepared incorporating the active ingredient in the required
amount in an appropriate solvent, such as a sodium borate solution (Dobell's Solution).
Alternatively, the active ingredient may be incorporated into an oral solution such as one
containing sodium borate, glycerin and potassium bicarbonate, or dispersed in a dentifrice, or
added in a therapeutically- effective amount to a composition that may include water,
                                                  - 15  -

binders, abrasives, flavoring agents, foaming agents, and humectants. Alternatively the
compositions may be fashioned into a tablet or solution form that may be placed under the
tongue or otherwise dissolved in the mouth.
              [0052]        Additional formulations which are suitable for other modes of
alimentary administration include suppositories.          Suppositories are solid dosage forms of
various weights and shapes, usually medicated, for insertion into the rectum. After insertion,
suppositories soften, melt or dissolve in the cavity fluids.          In general, for suppositories,
traditional   carriers may include, for example, polyalkylene glycols, triglycerides              or
combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, suppositories may be formed from mixtures
containing, for example, the active ingredient in the range of about 0.5% to about 10%, and
preferably about 1% to about 2%.
             B. Parenteral Compositions and Formulations
              [0053]      In further embodiments, the Parthenolide combinatorial composition
may be administered via a parenteral route. As used herein, the term "parenteral" includes
routes that bypass the alimentary tract.          Specifically, the pharmaceutical compositions
disclosed herein may be administered for example, but not limited to intravenously,
intradermally,       intramuscularly,     intraarterially,    intrathecally,    subcutaneous,     or
intraperitoneally U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,7537,514, 6,613,308, 5,466,468, 5,543,158; 5,641,515; and
5,399,363 (each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety)..
              [0054]      Solutions of the active compounds as free base or pharmacologically
acceptable salts may be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant, such as
hydroxypropylcellulose.      Dispersions may also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene
glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these
preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.                    The
pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or
dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable
solutions or dispersions (U.S. Patent 5,466,468, specifically incorporated herein by reference
in its entirety). In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy
injectability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and
must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms, such as bacteria and
fungi.   The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water,
ethanol, polyol (i.e., glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like),
                                                   - 16 -

suitable mixtures thereof, and/or vegetable oils.       Proper fluidity may be maintained, for
example, by the use of a coating, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle
size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of
microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for
example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like.       In many
cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride.
Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the
compositions of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and
gelatin.
             [0055]     For parenteral administration in an aqueous solution, for example, the
solution should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic
with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable
for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, and intraperitoneal administration.        In this
connection, sterile aqueous media that can be employed will be known to those of skill in the
art in light of the present disclosure. For example, one dosage may be dissolved in isotonic
NaCl solution and either added hypodermoclysis fluid or injected at the proposed site of
infusion, (see for example, "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences" 15th Edition, pages 1035
1038 and 1570-1580).       Some variation in dosage will necessarily occur depending on the
condition of the subject being treated. The person responsible for administration will, in any
event, determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject.        Moreover, for human
administration, preparations should meet sterility, pyrogenicity, general safety and purity
standards as required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.
             [0056]      Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active
compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other
ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization.        Generally,
dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a
sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients
from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile
injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum-drying and freeze
drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired
ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. A powdered composition is
                                                 - 17 -

combined with a liquid carrier such as, e.g., water or a saline solution, with or without a
stabilizing agent.
            C. Miscellaneous Pharmaceutical Compositions and Formulations
             [0057]   In other preferred embodiments of the invention, the active compound
Parthenolide combinatorial composition may be formulated for administration via various
miscellaneous routes, for example, topical (i.e., transdermal) administration, mucosal
administration (intranasal, vaginal, etc.) and/or inhalation.
             [0058]   Pharmaceutical compositions for topical administration may include the
active compound formulated for a medicated application such as an ointment, paste, cream or
powder.    Ointments include all oleaginous, adsorption, emulsion and water-solubly based
compositions for topical application, while creams and lotions are those compositions that
include an emulsion base only.           Topically administered medications may contain a
penetration enhancer to facilitate adsorption of the active ingredients through the skin.
Suitable penetration    enhancers    include    glycerin,  alcohols, alkyl methyl  sulfoxides,
pyrrolidones and luarocapram.       Possible bases for compositions for topical application
include polyethylene glycol, lanolin, cold cream and petrolatum as well as any other suitable
absorption, emulsion or water-soluble ointment base. Topical preparations may also include
emulsifiers, gelling agents, and Parthenolide combinatorial preservatives as necessary to
preserve the active ingredient and provide for a homogenous mixture.              Transdermal
administration of the present invention may also comprise the use of a "patch". For example,
the patch may supply one or more active substances at a predetermined rate and in a
continuous manner over a fixed period of time.
             [0059]     In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions may be
delivered by eye drops, intranasal sprays, inhalation, and/or other aerosol delivery vehicles.
Methods for delivering compositions directly to the lungs via nasal aerosol sprays has been
described e.g., in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,756,353 and 5,804,212 (each specifically incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety). Likewise, the delivery of drugs using intranasal
microparticle resins (Takenaga et al., 1998) and lysophosphatidyl-glycerol compounds (U.S.
Pat. No. 5,725, 871, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) are also
well-known in the pharmaceutical arts. Likewise, transmucosal drug delivery in the form of a
polytetrafluoroetheylene support matrix is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,780,045 (specifically
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                                                 - 18 -

             [0060]     The term aerosol refers to a colloidal system of finely divided solid of
liquid particles dispersed in a liquefied or pressurized gas propellant. The typical aerosol of
the present invention for inhalation will consist of a suspension of active ingredients in liquid
propellant or a mixture of liquid propellant and a suitable solvent.        Suitable propellants
include hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon ethers. Suitable containers will vary according to the
pressure requirements of the propellant. Administration of the aerosol will vary according to
subject' s age, weight and the severity and responseof the symptoms.
 IV.     Kits of the Invention
             [0061]     Any of the compositions described herein may be comprised in a kit.
The kits will thus comprise, in suitable container means, a Parthenolide combinatorial
composition of the present invention. In some embodiments, the kit further comprises an
additional agent for treating a microbial infection, and the additional agent may be combined
with the composition of the invention or may be provided separately in the kit. In some
embodiments, means of taking a sample from an individual and/or of assaying the sample
may be provided in the kit. In certain embodiments there may be means to identify AD in an
individual and/or an additional neurodegenerative disease treatment.
             [0062]    The components of the kits may be packaged either in aqueous media or
in lyophilized form. The container means of the kits will generally include at least one vial,
test tube, flask, bottle, syringe or other container means, into which a component may be
placed, and preferably, suitably aliquoted. Where there are more than one component in the
kit (for example, when Parthenolide and the second agent are housed separately), the kit also
will generally contain a second, third or other additional container into which the additional
components may be separately placed. However, various combinations of components may
be comprised in a vial. The kits of the present invention also will typically include a means
for containing the Parthenolide combinatorial composition and any other reagent containers
in close confinement for commercial sale. Such containers may include injection or blow
molded plastic containers into which the desired vials are retained.
             [0063]    When the components of the kit are provided in one and/or more liquid
solutions, the liquid solution is an aqueous solution, with a sterile aqueous solution being
particularly preferred.     The compositions may also be formulated into a syringeable
composition. In which case, the container means may itself be a syringe, pipette, and/or other
such like apparatus, from which the formulation may be applied to an infected area of the
                                                - 19 -

body, injected into an animal, and/or even applied to and/or mixed with the other components
of the kit. However, the components of the kit may be provided as dried powder(s). When
reagents and/or components are provided as a dry powder, the powder can be reconstituted by
the addition of a suitable solvent. It is envisioned that the solvent may also be provided in
another container means.
                                          EXAMPLES
            [0064]      The following examples are offered by way of example and are not
intended to limit the scope of the invention in any manner.
                                          EXAMPLE 1
       IDENTIFICATION OF PARTHENOLIDE AND A SECOND AGENT FOR AD
                                         TREATMENT
            [0065]      Due to the high morbidity and sequelae of AD, a Literature Based
Discovery (LBD) approach was designed to pinpoint a candidate drugs for the treatment of
AD that may be more suitable treatment than the currently administered regimen.
            [0066]    Exemplary Methodology (FIG. 1):
            [0067]       1. Dragon Exploratory System an in house fact-finding system for
biomedical and biology domain that operates mainly based on LBD, and was used to generate
a knowledgebase on neurodegenerative diseases.          This knowledge base is focused on
neurodegenerative disease-related literature that allowed extraction of microglia-related
disease drugs (MRDDs) linked to specific genes and proteins implicated                in the
pathophysiology of AD (FIG. 2).
            [0068]      2. The MRDDs that were linked to all of the selected AD-related
proteins were compiled.
            [0069]     3. The MRDDs that were not screened for application as an AD drug
were extracted.
            [0070]       4. The MRDDs from step 3 that induce the desired effect on the
molecules and proteins implicated in the pathophysiology of AD were selected by hand
curation.
                                                -20 -

             [0071]     The study allowed for the identification of Parthenolide as a critical
component in the newly proposed treatment of AD. Parthenolide, a known NF-B inhibitor,
is a naturally occurring sesquiterpene lactone derived from feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium)
(Mathema, et al 2011).
             [0072]    In 2002, Fiebich et al. demonstrated that parthenolide inhibits INOS/NO
synthesis in primary rat microglia (Fiebich, et al 2002) (Table 1). This is the only
experimental data published demonstrating the effect of parthenolide in microglia. However,
Parthenolide has additionally been shown to inhibit IkappaBalpha degradation, NF-B
activation and inflammatory response in IL-i and TNFa -stimulated cystic fibrosis cells
(Saadane, et al 2007). Thus, Parthenolide also inhibits the reactivation of NF-B by
inflammatory proteins implicated in the pathophysiology of AD. Mangolini et al. further
demonstrated that Parthenolide reduces, rather than increase apoptosis and p53 levels in
fibrocystin/polyductin-depleted kidney epithelial cells (Mangolini, et al 2010). This result
highlights the proapoptotic function of NF-B in particular cell types and Parthenolide' s
ability to reduce apoptosis via NF-B inhibition. Consequently, in embodiments of the
invention Parthenolide also inhibits NF-B and the associated pro -inflammatory signals in
microglia, thereby reducing neurodegeneration in AD.
             [0073]       Table 1: Beneficial effects demonstrated by Parthenolide on the
pathophysiology of AD
Molecules                 Expression status in      References             Expression altered by
                          AD                                               Parthenolide
CASP8                     up                                               undetermined
CASP3                     up                                               undetermined
IkappaBa                  up                        (Saadane, et al 2007)  Decreases IkappaBa
                                                                           levels
NF-KB                     up                        (Saadane, et al 2007)  Decreases      NF-KB
                                                                           levels
NO                        up                        (Fiebich, et al 2002)  Decreases NO levels
                                                 - 21  -

INOS                    up                      (Fiebich, et al 2002)   Decreases        INOS
                                                                        levels
TNFa                    up                      (Saadane, et al 2007)   Decreases        TNFa
                                                                        levels
IL-l p                  up                      (Saadane, et al 2007)   Decreases           IL
                                                                        1p levels
TLR4                    up                                              undetermined
MD-2                    up                                              undetermined
CD14                    up                                              undetermined
            [0074]    However, this neurodegeneration can be further limited by introducing
inhibitors of the tri-molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14) necessary for full
cellular activation by aggregated amyloid peptide. As an example, Curcumin has been
demonstrated to bind MD-2 thereby inhibiting MyD88-              dependent and -independent
signaling pathways of LPS signaling through TLR4 (Gradisar, et al 2007).
            [0075]     On the other hand, Resatorvid (TAK-242), a novel synthetic small
molecule was shown to suppress TLR4 signaling by binding directly to a specific amino acid
Cys747 in the intracellular domain of TLR4 (Takashima, et al 2009). Resatorvid was further
shown to inhibit TIRAP-mediated activation of NF-B and the TR AM-mediated activation of
NF-B and interferon -sensitive response element in HEK293 cells stably expressing
TLR4/MD-2/CD14 (Matsunaga, et al 2011). Caspase -8 and -3 was shown to be activated in
microglia in the brain of individuals with PD and AD, whilst the knockdown of TLR4 was
shown to reduce processing/activation of caspase -8 and -3 (Burguillos, et al 2011). Since
caspase -8 and -3 processing/activation is reduce and not eliminated, it is possible that other
undefined pathways may likely be induced by the Appeptides as well. Thus, combining
Curcumin that binds MD-2 and Resatorvid that binds TLR4 to inhibit the known pathways
induced by Appeptides with parthenolide inhibiting         all inflammatory pathways likely
merging at NF-B should provide a stronger defense against the eff ects of the Appeptides.
Additionally, nAChR agonist/s such as Tilorone (or Tilorone analog/s) (Briggs, et al 2008)
                                              -22  -

can also be used to help restore normal cellular processes, as it has been demonstrated that
nAChR agonists increase sAPPcecretion whilst decreasing levels of Afljept       ides (Mousavi
and Hellstrom- Lindahl 2009).
             [0076]    Considering that no therapy has been developed that will prevent or
delay AD progression and that the currently available symptomatic therapies for AD are only
mildly improving defects in cognitive function, ADLs and global functioning, it would be
beneficial to include Parthenolide and the inhibitor/s of the trimolecular receptor complex
(TLR4/MD-2/CD14) such as Curcumin and/or Resatorvid, and the nACHR agonist/s such as
Tilorone to the regimen as this drug synergy approach is efficient in changing the progression
of AD, in certain aspects of the invention.
                                         EXAMPLE 2
  COMBINATORIAL DRUGS FOR NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASE TREATMENT
             [0077]       In at least certain embodiments of the invention that employ
parthenolide in combination with other compositions for neurodegenerative disease, such
combinations are beneficial compared to the current treatment of AD.             In particular
embodiments, the methods of the invention are directly or indirectly associated with
advantages such as decreasing levels of Appeptides, for example through inhibiting the
action of Appeptides     via toll-like receptors, nAChR and other inflammatory pathways
related to NF-B activities. In some embodiments of the inventio n, there are methods and
combination that reduce neuronal loss.
             [0078]   In combinatorial treatment aspects of the invention, neurodegeneration
can be further limited by introducing inhibitors of the tri-molecular receptor complex
(TLR4/MD-2/CD14) necessary for full cellular activation by aggregated amyloid peptide. As
an example, Curcumin has been demonstrated to bind MD-2 thereby inhibiting MyD88
dependent and -independent signaling pathways of LPS signaling through TLR4 (Gradisar, et
al 2007). On the other hand, Resatorvid (TAK-242), a novel synthetic small-molecule was
shown to suppress TLR4 signaling by binding directly to a specific amino acid Cys747 in the
intracellular domain of TLR4 (Takashima, et al 2009).
             [0079]   Resatorvid was further shown to inhibit TIRAP-mediated activation of
NF-B and the TRAMmed iated activation of NF-B and interferon -sensitive response
                                               -23 -

element in HEK293 cells stably expressing TLR4/MD-2/CD14 (Matsunaga, et al 2011).
Caspase -8 and -3 was shown to be activated in microglia in the brain of individuals with PD
and AD, whilst the knockdown of TLR4 was shown to reduce processing/activation of
caspase -8 and -3 (Burguillos, et al 2011). Since caspase -8 and -3 processing/activation is
reduce and not eliminated, it is possible that other undefined pathways may likely be induced
by the Af eptides as well.
            [0080]    Thus, combining Curcumin that binds MD-2 and Resatorvid that binds
TLR4 to inhibit the known pathways induced by Albe ptides with Parthenolide inhibiting all
inflammatory pathways likely invovlving NF-B should provide a stron ger defense against
the effects of the Afppeptides. Additionally, nAChR     agonist/s such as Tilorone (or Tilorone
analog/s) (Briggs, et al 2008) can also be used to help restore normal cellular processes, as it
has been demonstrated that nAChR agonists increase sAPPasecretion whilst decreasing
levels of Af eptides (Mousavi and Hellstrom -Lindahl 2009).
            [0081]     Considering that no therapy has been developed that will prevent or
delay AD progression, and the currently available symptomatic therapies for AD are only
mildly improving defects in cognitive function, ADLs and global functioning, it is beneficial
to include Parthenolide and at least one other compound, such as the inhibitor(s) of the tri
molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14), such as Resatorvid, or both Resatorvid and
Curcumin, and the nACHR agonist/s such as Tilorone to the regimen.                In particular
embodiments, this drug synergy approach is efficient to improve at least one symptom of at
least one neurodegenerative disease and, in at least some aspects, is efficient to change the
progression of AD.
                                                - 24 -

                                            REFERENCES
               [0082]    All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative
   of the level of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains.        All patents and
   publications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each
 5 individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by
   reference.
               [0083]     Acker, B.A., Jacobsen, E.J., Rogers, B.N., Wishka, D.G., Reitz, S.C.,
   Piotrowski, D.W., Myers, J.K., Wolfe, M.L., Groppi, V.E., Thornburgh, B.A., Tinholt, P.M.,
   Walters, R.R., Olson, B.A., Fitzgerald, L., Staton, B.A., Raub, T.J., Krause, M., Li, K.S.,
 0 Hoffmann, W.E., Hajos, M., Hurst, R.S. & Walker, D.P. (2008) Discovery of N-[(3R,5R)-1
   azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl]furo[2,3-c]pyridine-5-carboxamide      as an agonist of the alpha7
   nicotinic acetylcholine receptor: in vitro and in vivo activity. Bioorg Med Chem Lett, 18,
   3611-3615.
               [0084]          Ahn,   S.I.,  Lee,  J.K. & Youn,       H.S.   (2009)   Inhibition   of
 5 homodimerization of toll-like receptor 4 by 6-shogaol. Mol Cells, 27, 211-215.
               [0085]    Ajamieh, H., Farrell, G., Wong, H.J., Yu, J., Chu, E., Chen, J. & Teoh,
   N. (2012) Atorvastatin protects obese mice against hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury by
   TLR4 suppression and eNOS activation. J GastroenterolHepatol.
               [0086]    Aliprantis, A.O., Yang, R.B., Weiss, D.S., Godowski, P. & Zychlinsky,
20 A. (2000) The apoptotic signaling pathway activated by Toll-like receptor-2. Embo J, 19,
   3325-3336.
               [0087]     Atri, A., Shaughnessy, L.W., Locascio, J.J. & Growdon, J.H. (2008)
   Long-term course and effectiveness of combination therapy in Alzheimer disease. Alzheimer
   Dis Assoc Disord, 22, 209-221.
25             [0088]     Babic, T. (1999) The cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease: a
   review of progress. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry, 67, 558.
               [0089]    Boess, F.G., De Vry, J., Erb, C., Flessner, T., Hendrix, M., Luithle, J.,
   Methfessel, C., Riedl, B., Schnizler, K., van der Staay, F.J., van Kampen, M., Wiese, W.B. &
   Koenig, G. (2007) The novel alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist N-[(3R)-1
                                                   -25 -

   azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-7-[2-(methoxy)phenyl]-1-benzofuran-2-carboxa           mide   improves
   working and recognition memory in rodents. JPharmacolExp Ther, 321, 716-725.
               [0090]        Bredesen, D.E., Rao, R.V. & Mehlen, P. (2006) Cell death in the
   nervous system. Nature, 443, 796-802.
 5             [0091]      Briggs, C.A., Schrimpf, M.R., Anderson, D.J., Gubbins, E.J., Gronlien,
   J.H., Hakerud, M., Ween, H., Thorin-Hagene, K., Malysz, J., Li, J., Bunnelle, W.H.,
   Gopalakrishnan, M. & Meyer, M.D. (2008) alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist
   properties of tilorone and related tricyclic analogues. Br J Pharmacol, 153, 1054-1061.
               [0092]       Brown, G.C. & Bal-Price, A. (2003) Inflammatory neurodegeneration
 0 mediated by nitric oxide, glutamate, and mitochondria. Mol Neurobiol, 27, 325-355.
               [0093]       Burguillos, M.A., Deierborg, T., Kavanagh, E., Persson, A., Hajji, N.,
   Garcia-Quintanilla, A., Cano, J., Brundin, P., Englund, E., Venero, J.L. & Joseph, B. (2011)
   Caspase signalling controls microglia activation and neurotoxicity. Nature, 472, 319-324.
               [0094]     Colton, C.A., Snell, J., Chemyshev, 0. & Gilbert, D.L. (1994) Induction
 5 of superoxide anion and nitric oxide production in cultured microglia. Ann N Y Acad Sci,
   738, 54-63.
               [0095]     Cummings, J.L., Vinters, H.V., Cole, G.M. & Khachaturian, Z.S. (1998)
   Alzheimer's     disease:   etiologies,  pathophysiology,    cognitive   reserve,    and  treatment
   opportunities. Neurology, 51, S2-17; discussion S65-17.
20             [0096]     Datla, P., Kalluri, M.D., Basha, K., Bellary, A., Kshirsagar, R., Kanekar,
   Y.,   Upadhyay,       S.,    Singh,    S.   &     Rajagopal,    V.    (2010)     9,10-dihydro-2,5
   dimethoxyphenanthrene-1,7-diol, from Eulophia ochreata, inhibits inflammatory signalling
   mediated by Toll-like receptors. Br JPharmacol,160, 1158-1170.
               [0097]        Doody, R.S., Stevens, J.C., Beck, C., Dubinsky, R.M., Kaye, J.A.,
25 Gwyther, L., Mohs, R.C., Thal, L.J., Whitehouse, P.J., DeKosky, S.T. & Cummings, J.L.
   (2001) Practice parameter: management of dementia (an evidence-based review). Report of
   the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology,
   56, 1154-1166.
                                                    - 26 -

                [00981        Du, R.H., Li, E.G., Cao, Y., Song, Y.C. & Tan, R.X. (2011)
   Fumigaclavine C inhibits tumor necrosis factor alpha production via suppression of toll-like
   receptor 4 and nuclear factor kappaB activation in macrophages. Life Sci, 89, 235-240.
                [0099]    Duan, G.J., Zhu, J., Wan, J.Y., Li, X., Ge, X.D., Liu, L.M. & Liu, Y.S.
 5 (2010)    A    synthetic   MD-2     mimetic   peptide   attenuates  lipopolysaccharide-induced
   inflammatory responses in vivo and in vitro. Int Immunopharmacol, 10, 1091-1100.
                [0100]    Ekshyyan, 0. & Aw, T.Y. (2004) Apoptosis: a key in neurodegenerative
   disorders. Curr Neurovasc Res, 1, 355-371.
                [0101]     Fiebich, B.L., Lieb, K., Engels, S. & Heinrich, M. (2002) Inhibition of
 0 LPS-induced p42/44 MAP kinase activation and iNOS/NO synthesis by parthenolide in rat
   primary microglial cells. J Neuroimmunol, 132, 18-24.
                [0102]        Geldmacher, D.S.     (2004) Donepezil (Aricept) for treatment of
   Alzheimer's disease and other dementing conditions. Expert Rev Neurother, 4, 5-16.
                [0103]       Geldmacher, D.S. (2008) Cost-effectiveness of drug therapies for
 5 Alzheimer's disease: A brief review. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat, 4, 549-555.
                [0104]      Ghiron, C., Haydar, S.N., Aschmies, S., Bothmann, H., Castaldo, C.,
   Cocconcelli, G., Comery, T.A., Di, L., Dunlop, J., Lock, T., Kramer, A., Kowal, D., Jow, F.,
   Grauer, S., Harrison, B., La Rosa, S., Maccari, L., Marquis, K.L., Micco, I., Nencini, A.,
   Quinn, J., Robichaud, A.J., Roncarati, R., Scali, C., Terstappen, G.C., Turlizzi, E., Valacchi,
20 M., Varrone, M., Zanaletti, R. & Zanelli, U. (2010) Novel alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine
   receptor agonists containing a urea moiety: identification and characterization of the potent,
   selective, and orally efficacious agonist 1-[6-(4-fluorophenyl)pyridin-3-yl]-3-(4-piperidin-1
   ylbutyl) urea (SEN34625/WYE-103914). JMed Chem, 53, 4379-4389.
                [0105]     Giulian, D. (1987) Ameboid microglia as effectors of inflammation in
25 the central nervous system. J Neurosci Res, 18, 155-171, 132-153.
                [0106]       Goedert, M. & Spillantini, M.G. (2006) A century of Alzheimer's
   disease. Science, 314, 777-781.
                                                    - 27 -

                [0107]    Gradisar, H., Keber, M.M., Pristovsek, P. & Jerala, R. (2007) MD-2 as
   the target of curcumin in the inhibition of response to LPS. J Leukoc Biol, 82, 968-974.
                [0108]    Griffin, W.S., Stanley, L.C., Ling, C., White, L., MacLeod, V., Perrot,
   L.J., White, C.L., 3rd & Araoz, C. (1989) Brain interleukin 1 and S-100 immunoreactivity are
 5 elevated in Down syndrome and Alzheimer disease. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 86, 7611
   7615.
                [0109]       Hajos, M., Hurst, R.S., Hoffmann, W.E., Krause, M., Wall, T.M.,
   Higdon, N.R. & Groppi, V.E. (2005) The selective alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
   agonist         PNU-282987            [N-[(3R)-1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide
 0 hydrochloride] enhances GABAergic synaptic activity in brain slices and restores auditory
   gating deficits in anesthetized rats. JPharmacolExp Ther, 312, 1213-1222.
                [0110]    Hardy, J. & Selkoe, D.J. (2002) The amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer's
   disease: progress and problems on the road to therapeutics. Science, 297, 353-356.
                [0111]    Haydar, S.N., Ghiron, C., Bettinetti, L., Bothmann, H., Comery, T.A.,
 5 Dunlop, J., La Rosa, S., Micco, I., Pollastrini, M., Quinn, J., Roncarati, R., Scali, C.,
   Valacchi, M., Varrone, M. & Zanaletti, R. (2009) SAR and biological evaluation of
   SEN12333/WAY-317538: Novel alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist. Bioorg
   Med Chem, 17, 5247-5258.
                [0112]       Ibrahim, A., Mbodji, K., Hassan, A., Aziz, M., Boukhettala, N.,
20 Coeffier, M., Savoye, G., Dechelotte, P. & Marion-Letellier, R. (2011) Anti-inflammatory
   and anti-angiogenic effect of long chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in intestinal
   microvascular endothelium. Clin Nutr, 30, 678-687.
                [0113]      Isacson, 0., Seo, H., Lin, L., Albeck, D. & Granholm, A.C. (2002)
   Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome: roles of APP, trophic factors and ACh. Trends
25 Neurosci, 25, 79-84.
                [0114]     Itagaki, S., McGeer, P.L., Akiyama, H., Zhu, S. & Selkoe, D. (1989)
   Relationship of microglia and astrocytes to amyloid deposits of Alzheimer disease. J
   Neuroimmunol, 24, 173-182.
                                                   -28-

                 [0115]    Kim, H.Y., Park, J., Lee, K.H., Lee, D.U., Kwak, J.H., Kim, Y.S. & Lee,
   S.M. (2011) Ferulic acid protects against carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury in mice.
   Toxicology, 282, 104-111.
                 [0116]    Kitazawa, T., Tsujimoto, T., Kawaratani, H. & Fukui, H. (2010) Salvage
 5 effect of E5564, Toll-like receptor 4 antagonist on d-galactosamine and lipopolysaccharide
   induced acute liver failure in rats. JGastroenterolHepatol, 25, 1009-1012.
                 [0117]     Lee, J.S., Lee, J.Y., Lee, M.Y., Hwang, D.H. & Youn, H.S. (2008)
   Acrolein     with    an   alpha,    beta-unsaturated       carbonyl group  inhibits  LPS-induced
   homodimerization of toll-like receptor 4. Mol Cells, 25, 253-257.
 0               [0118]    Liu, L., Ghosh, N., Slivka, P.F., Fiorini, Z., Hutchinson, M.R., Watkins,
   L.R. & Yin, H. (2011) An MD2 hot-spot-mimicking peptide that suppresses TLR4-mediated
   inflammatory response in vitro and in vivo. Chembiochem, 12, 1827-1831.
                 [0119]    Liu,  Q.,  Huang, Y., Xue, F., Simard, A., DeChon, J., Li, G., Zhang, J.,
   Lucero, L., Wang, M., Sierks, M., Hu, G., Chang, Y., Lukas, R.J. & Wu, J. (2009) A novel
 5 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype in basal forebrain cholinergic neurons with high
   sensitivity to amyloid peptides. J Neurosci, 29, 918-929.
                 [0120]     Liu,  Q., Zerbinatti, C.V., Zhang, J., Hoe, H.S., Wang, B., Cole, S.L.,
   Herz, J., Muglia, L. & Bu, G. (2007) Amyloid precursor protein regulates brain
   apolipoprotein E and cholesterol metabolism through lipoprotein receptor LRPl. Neuron, 56,
20 66-78.
                 [0121]      Malysz, J., Anderson, D.J., Gronlien, J.H., Ji, J., Bunnelle, W.H.,
   Hakerud,     M., Thorin-Hagene,        K., Ween,      H., Helfrich,   R., Hu,  M., Gubbins,   E.,
   Gopalakrishnan, S., Puttfarcken, P.S., Briggs, C.A., Li, J., Meyer, M.D., Dyhring, T., Ahring,
   P.K., Nielsen, E.O., Peters, D., Timmermann, D.B. & Gopalakrishnan, M. (2010) In vitro
25 pharmacological characterization of a novel selective alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine
   receptor agonist ABT-107. JPharmacolExp Ther, 334, 863-874.
                 [0122]    Malysz, J., Gronlien, J.H., Anderson, D.J., Hakerud, M., Thorin-Hagene,
   K., Ween, H., Wetterstrand, C., Briggs, C.A., Faghih, R., Bunnelle, W.H. & Gopalakrishnan,
   M. (2009) In vitro pharmacological characterization of a novel allosteric modulator of alpha 7
                                                      - 29  -

   neuronal acetylcholine receptor, 4-(5 -(4-chlorophenyl)-2-methyl-3 -propionyl- 1H-pyrrol- 1
   yl)benzenesulfonamide (A-867744), exhibiting unique pharmacological profile. JPharmacol
   Exp Ther, 330, 257-267.
                [0123]    Mangialasche, F., Solomon, A., Winblad, B., Mecocci, P. & Kivipelto,
 5 M. (2011) Alzheimer's disease: clinical trials and drug development. Lancet Neurol, 9, 702
   716.
                [0124]   Mangolini, A., Bogo, M., Durante, C., Borgatti, M., Gambari, R., Harris,
   P.C., Rizzuto, R., Pinton, P., Aguiari, G. & del Senno, L. (2010) NF-kappaB activation is
   required for apoptosis in fibrocystin/polyductin-depleted kidney epithelial cells. Apoptosis,
 0 15, 94-104.
                [0125]     Marquis, K.L., Comery, T.A., Jow, F., Navarra, R.L., Grauer, S.M.,
   Pulicicchio, C., Kelley, C., Brennan, J.A., Roncarati, R., Scali, C., Haydar, S., Ghiron, C.,
   Terstappen, G.C. & Dunlop, J. (2011) Preclinical assessment of an adjunctive treatment
   approach for cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia using the alpha7 nicotinic
 5 acetylcholine receptor agonist WYE-103914/SEN34625. Psychopharmacology (Berl), 218,
   635-647.
                [0126]     Marzolo, M.P., von Bernhardi, R. & Inestrosa, N.C. (1999) Mannose
   receptor is present in a functional state in rat microglial cells. J Neurosci Res, 58, 387-395.
                [0127]      Mathema, V.B., Koh, Y.S., Thakuri, B.C. & Sillanpaa, M. (2011)
20 Parthenolide,    a  Sesquiterpene    Lactone,    Expresses    Multiple    Anti-cancer   and  Anti
   inflammatory Activities. Inflammation, [Epub ahead of print].
                [0128]    Matsunaga, N., Tsuchimori, N., Matsumoto, T. & Ii, M. (2011) TAK
   242 (resatorvid), a small-molecule inhibitor of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signaling, binds
   selectively to TLR4 and interferes with interactions between TLR4 and its adaptor molecules.
25 Mol Pharmacol, 79, 34-41.
                [0129]    Mita, S., Shimizu, Y., Notsu, T., Imada, K. & Kyo, S. (2011) Dienogest
   inhibits Toll-like receptor 4 expression induced by costimulation of lipopolysaccharide and
   high-mobility group box 1 in endometrial epithelial cells. FertilSteril, 96, 1485-1489 e1484.
                                                     - 30 -

                [01301       Moses, G.S., Jensen, M.D., Lue, L.F., Walker, D.G., Sun, A.Y.,
   Simonyi, A. & Sun, G.Y. (2006) Secretory PLA2-IIA: a new inflammatory factor for
   Alzheimer's disease. J Neuroinflammation, 3, 28.
                [0131]    Mousavi, M. & Hellstrom-Lindahl, E. (2009) Nicotinic receptor agonists
 5 and antagonists increase sAPPalpha secretion and decrease Abeta levels in vitro. Neurochem
   Int, 54, 237-244.
                [0132]     Mousavi, M., Hellstrom-Lindahl, E., Guan, Z.Z., Shan, K.R., Ravid, R.
   & Nordberg, A. (2003) Protein and mRNA levels of nicotinic receptors in brain of tobacco
   using controls and patients with Alzheimer's disease. Neuroscience, 122, 515-520.
 0              [0133]     Murakami, K., Tanaka, M., Usui, T., Kawabata, D., Shiomi, A., Iguchi
   Hashimoto, M., Shimizu, M., Yukawa, N., Yoshifuji, H., Nojima, T., Ohmura, K., Fujii, T.,
   Umehara, H. & Mimori, T. (2012) Follistatin-related protein/follistatin-like 1 evokes an
   innate immune response via CD14 and toll-like receptor 4. FEBS Lett, 586, 319-324.
                [0134]     Nagahara, Y., Nagamori, T., Tamegai, H., Hitokuwada, M., Yoshimi,
 5 Y., Ikekita, M. & Shinomiya, T. (2011) Inulin stimulates phagocytosis of PMA-treated THP
   1 macrophages by involvement of P13-kinases and MAP kinases. Biofactors, 37, 447-454.
                [0135]      O'Donnell, C.J., Rogers, B.N., Bronk, B.S., Bryce, D.K., Coe, J.W.,
   Cook, K.K., Duplantier, A.J., Evrard, E., Hajos, M., Hoffmann, W.E., Hurst, R.S., Maklad,
   N., Mather, R.J., McLean, S., Nedza, F.M., O'Neill, B.T., Peng, L., Qian, W., Rottas, M.M.,
20 Sands, S.B., Schmidt, A.W., Shrikhande, A.V., Spracklin, D.K., Wong, D.F., Zhang, A. &
   Zhang,      L.     (2010)      Discovery     of     4-(5-methyloxazolo[4,5-b]pyridin-2-yl)-1,4
   diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonane (CP-810,123), a novel alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
   agonist for the      treatment   of cognitive   disorders in schizophrenia:    synthesis, SAR
   development, and in vivo efficacy in cognition models. JMed Chem, 53, 1222-1237.
25              [0136]     Parihar, M.S. & Hemnani, T. (2004) Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis
   and therapeutic interventions. J Clin Neurosci, 11, 456-467.
                [01371       Park, S.E., Sapkota, K., Kim, S., Kim, H. & Kim, S.J. (2011)
   Kaempferol acts through mitogen-activated protein kinases and protein kinase B/AKT to
                                                   -31  -

   elicit protection in a model of neuroinflammation in BV2 microglial cells. Br J Pharmacol,
   164, 1008-1025.
                 [0138]    Park, S.J. & Youn, H.S. (2010) Suppression of homodimerization of
   toll-like receptor 4 by isoliquiritigenin. Phytochemistry, 71, 1736-1740.
 5               [0139]   Puddu, P., Latorre, D., Carollo, M., Catizone, A., Ricci, G., Valenti, P.
   & Gessani, S. (2011) Bovine lactoferrin counteracts Toll-like receptor mediated activation
   signals in antigen presenting cells. PLoS One, 6, e22504.
                 [0140]     Riehl, T.E., Foster, L. & Stenson, W.F. (2012) Hyaluronic acid is
   radioprotective in the intestine through a TLR4 and COX-2-mediated mechanism. Am J
 0 Physiol GastrointestLiver Physiol, 302, G309-316.
                 [0141]   Roberson, E.D. & Mucke, L. (2006) 100 years and counting: prospects
   for defeating Alzheimer's disease. Science, 314, 781-784.
                 [0142]   Rogers, J., Cooper, N.R., Webster, S., Schultz, J., McGeer, P.L., Styren,
   S.D., Civin, W.H., Brachova, L., Bradt, B., Ward, P. & et al. (1992) Complement activation
 5 by beta-amyloid in Alzheimer disease. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 89, 10016-10020.
                 [0143]   Rogers, J.T., Leiter, L.M., McPhee, J., Cahill, C.M., Zhan, S.S., Potter,
   H. & Nilsson, L.N. (1999) Translation of the alzheimer amyloid precursor protein mRNA is
   up-regulated by interleukin-1 through 5'-untranslated region sequences. J Biol Chem, 274,
   6421-6431.
20               [0144]   Roh, E., Lee, H.S., Kwak, J.A., Hong, J.T., Nam, S.Y., Jung, S.H., Lee,
   J.Y., Kim, N.D., Han, S.B. & Kim, Y. (2010) MD-2 as the target of nonlipid chalcone in the
   inhibition of endotoxin LPS-induced TLR4 activity. JInfect Dis, 203, 1012-1020.
                 [0145]     Roncarati, R., Scali, C., Comery, T.A., Grauer, S.M., Aschmi, S.,
   Bothmann, H., Jow, B., Kowal, D., Gianfriddo, M., Kelley, C., Zanelli, U., Ghiron, C.,
25 Haydar, S., Dunlop, J. & Terstappen, G.C. (2009) Procognitive and neuroprotective activity
   of a novel alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist for treatment of neurodegenerative
   and cognitive disorders. JPharmacolExp Ther, 329, 459-468.
                                                    - 32 -

                [0146]      Saadane, A., Masters, S., DiDonato, J., Li, J. & Berger, M. (2007)
   Parthenolide inhibits IkappaB kinase, NF-kappaB activation and inflammatory response in
   cystic fibrosis cells and mice. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol, 36, 728-736.
                [0147]     Salawu, F.K., Umar, J.T. & Olokoba, A.B. (2011) Alzheimer's disease:
 5 A review of recent developments. Ann Afr Med, 10, 73-79.
                [0148]    Scheuner, D., Eckman, C., Jensen, M., Song, X., Citron, M., Suzuki, N.,
   Bird, T.D., Hardy, J., Hutton, M., Kukull, W., Larson, E., Levy-Lahad, E., Viitanen, M.,
   Peskind, E., Poorkaj, P., Schellenberg, G., Tanzi, R., Wasco, W., Lannfelt, L., Selkoe, D. &
   Younkin, S. (1996) Secreted amyloid betaprotein similar to that in the senile plaques of
 0 Alzheimer's disease is increased in vivo by the presenilin 1 and 2 and APP mutations linked
   to familial Alzheimer's disease. Nat Med, 2, 864- 870.
                [0149]      Srivareerat, M., Tran, T.T., Salim, S., Aleisa, A.M. & Alkadhi, K.A.
   (2011) Chronic nicotine restores normal Abeta levels and prevents short-term memory and E
   LTP impairment in Abeta rat model of Alzheimer's disease. Neurobiol Aging, 32, 834-844.
 5              [0150]    Takashima, K., Matsunaga, N., Yoshimatsu, M., Hazeki, K., Kaisho, T.,
   Uekata, M., Hazeki, 0., Akira, S., Iizawa, Y. & Ii, M. (2009) Analysis of binding site for the
   novel small-molecule TLR4 signal transduction inhibitor TAK-242 and its therapeutic effect
   on mouse sepsis model. Br J Pharmacol, 157, 1250-1262.
                [0151]        Tatsumi, R., Fujio, M., Satoh, H., Katayama, J., Takanashi, S.,
20 Hashimoto, K. & Tanaka, H. (2005) Discovery of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
   agonists.     (R)-3'-(5-Chlorothiophen-2-yl)spiro-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-3,5'-[1',3']oxazoli
   din-2'-one as a novel, potent, selective, and orally bioavailable ligand. JMed Chem, 48, 2678
   2686.
                [0152]     Tatsumi, R., Fujio, M., Takanashi, S., Numata, A., Katayama, J., Satoh,
25 H., Shiigi, Y., Maeda, J., Kuriyama, M., Horikawa, T., Murozono, T., Hashimoto, K. &
   Tanaka, H. (2006) (R)-3'-(3-methylbenzo [b]thiophen-5 -yl)spiro [1 -azabicyclo [2,2,2] octane
   3,5'-oxazol idin]-2'-one, a novel and potent alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial
   agonist displays cognitive enhancing properties. JMed Chem, 49, 4374-4383.
                                                    - 33 -

                [0153]   Tian, J., Wang, Y., He, Z., Gao, Y., Rundhaug, J.E. & Wang, X. (2011)
   Hydroxyethyl starch (130 kD) inhibits Toll-like receptor 4 signaling pathways in rat lungs
   challenged with lipopolysaccharide. Anesth Analg, 113, 112-119.
                [0154]    Tidswell, M. & LaRosa, S.P. (2011) Toll-like receptor-4 antagonist
 5 eritoran tetrasodium for severe sepsis. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther, 9, 507-520.
                [0155]   Tu, X.K., Yang, W.Z., Shi, S.S., Chen, Y., Wang, C.H., Chen, C.M. &
   Chen, Z. (2011) Baicalin inhibits TLR2/4 signaling pathway in rat brain following permanent
   cerebral ischemia. Inflammation, 34, 463-470.
                [0156]   Tu, X.K., Yang, W.Z., Wang, C.H., Shi, S.S., Zhang, Y.L., Chen, C.M.,
 0 Yang, Y.K., Jin, C.D. & Wen, S. (2010) Zileuton reduces inflammatory reaction and brain
   damage following permanent cerebral ischemia in rats. Inflammation, 33, 344-352.
                [0157]   Walter, S., Letiembre, M., Liu, Y., Heine, H., Penke, B., Hao, W., Bode,
   B., Manietta, N., Walter, J., Schulz-Schuffer, W. & Fassbender, K. (2007) Role of the toll
   like receptor 4 in neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease. Cell Physiol Biochem, 20, 947
 5 956.
                [0158]   Wan, Y., Wu, Y.L., Lian, L.H., Xie, W.X., Li, X., Ouyang, B.Q., Bai,
   T., Li, Q., Yang, N. & Nan, J.X. (2012) The anti-fibrotic effect of betulinic acid is mediated
   through the inhibition of NF-kappaB nuclear protein translocation. Chem Biol Interact, 195,
   215-223.
20              [0159]    Wishka, D.G., Walker, D.P., Yates, K.M., Reitz, S.C., Jia, S., Myers,
   J.K., Olson, K.L., Jacobsen, E.J., Wolfe, M.L., Groppi, V.E., Hanchar, A.J., Thornburgh,
   B.A., Cortes-Burgos, L.A., Wong, E.H., Staton, B.A., Raub, T.J., Higdon, N.R., Wall, T.M.,
   Hurst, R.S., Walters, R.R., Hoffmann, W.E., Hajos, M., Franklin, S., Carey, G., Gold, L.H.,
   Cook, K.K., Sands, S.B., Zhao, S.X., Soglia, J.R., Kalgutkar, A.S., Americ, S.P. & Rogers,
25 B.N.    (2006)    Discovery     of  N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]furo[2,3-c]pyridine-5
   carboxamide, an agonist of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, for the potential
   treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia: synthesis and structure--activity relationship.
   JMed Chem, 49, 4425-4436.
                                                  - 34 -

                [01601       Witt, A., Macdonald, N. & Kirkpatrick, P. (2004) Memantine
   hydrochloride. Nat Rev Drug Discov, 3, 109-110.
                [0161]    Wu, Y., Tang, K., Huang, R.Q., Zhuang, Z., Cheng, H.L., Yin, H.X. &
   Shi, J.X. (2011) Therapeutic potential of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma
 5 agonist rosiglitazone in cerebral vasospasm after a rat experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage
   model. JNeurolSci, 305, 85-91.
                [0162]     Yu, C., Shan, T., Feng, A., Li, Y., Zhu, W., Xie, Y., Li, N. & Li, J.
   (2011) Triptolide ameliorates Crohn's colitis is associated with inhibition of TLRs/NF
   kappaB signaling pathway. Fitoterapia,82, 709-715.
 0              [0163]     Zanaletti, R., Bettinetti, L., Castaldo, C., Cocconcelli, G., Comery, T.,
   Dunlop, J., Gaviraghi, G., Ghiron, C., Haydar, S.N., Jow, F., Maccari, L., Micco, I., Nencini,
   A., Scali, C., Turlizzi, E. & Valacchi, M. (2012) Discovery of a Novel Alpha-7 Nicotinic
   Acetylcholine Receptor Agonist Series and Characterization of the Potent, Selective, and
   Orally    Efficacious     Agonist      5-(4-Acetyl[1,4]diazepan-1-yl)pentanoic      Acid   [5-(4
 5 Methoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-yl] Amide (SEN15924, WAY-361789). JMed Chem.
                [0164]      Zhao, L., Lee, J.Y. & Hwang, D.H. (2011) Inhibition of pattern
   recognition receptor-mediated inflammation by bioactive phytochemicals. Nutr Rev, 69, 310
   320.
                [0165]     One skilled in the art readily appreciates that the present invention is
20 well adapted to carry out the objectives and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as
   well as those inherent therein. Methods, procedures, techniques and kits described herein are
   presently representative of the preferred embodiments and are intended to be exemplary and
   are not intended as limitations of the scope. Changes therein and other uses will occur to
   those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention or defined by
25 the scope of the pending claims.
                [0166]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
   integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
30 steps.
                                                     -35-

               [01671    The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or
  information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken
  as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
  information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
5 in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                  - 36 -

 THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.   A composition comprising Parthenolide and at least a second agent, wherein said
     second agent is selected from the group consisting of:
     a) one or more inhibitors of the tri-molecular receptor complex (TLR4/MD-2/CD14);
     b) one or more nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nACHR) agonists;
     c) a neurodegenerative disease treatment; and
     d) a combination thereof.
2.   The composition of claim 1, wherein an inhibitor of TLR4/MD-2/CD14 is selected
     from the group consisting of Curcumin, Resatorvid, and a combination thereof.
3.   The composition of claim 1, wherein a nACHR agonist is selected from the group
     consisting of Tilorone, Tilorone analog RI 1-567DA, Tilorone analog RI 1-877DA,
     Tilorone analog R10,874DA, and a combination thereof.
4.   The composition of claim 1, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are in a
     mixture.
5.   The composition of claim 1, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are housed
     separately.
6.   The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and at
     least one inhibitor of TLR4/MD-2/CD14.
7.   The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and
     Resatorvid.
8.   The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and
     Curcumin.
9.   The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and one
     or more nACHR agonists.
                                             - 37 -

10. The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and
    Tilorone or Parthenolide and at least one Tilorone analog.
11. The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises Parthenolide and a
    neurodegenerative disease treatment.
12. The composition of claim 1, wherein the neurodegenerative disease treatment is an
    Alzheimer' s Disease treatment.
13. The composition of claim 1, wherein the ratio of Parthenolide to the second agent in
    the composition is 1:1, 1:2, 1:10, 1:50, 1:100, 1:500, 1:1000, 2:1, 10:1, 50:1, 100:1,
    500:1, or 1000:1.
14. The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition has a form that is a tablet,
    liquid, lozenge, injectable composition, or dissolvable film/
15. The composition of claim 1, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are of the
    same form.
16. The composition of claim 1, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are in
    different forms.
17. A method of treating a neurodegenerative disease in an individual, comprising the
    step of delivering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of a
    composition of claim 1.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of delivering to the individual an
    additional neurodegenerative disease treatment.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are delivered
    concomitantly to the individual.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein Parthenolide and the second agent are delivered at
    separate times to the individual.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the composition is delivered orally, subcutaneously,
    intramuscularly, or intravenously.
                                             - 38 -

22. The method of claim 17, wherein the composition is delivered to the individual more
    than once.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the composition is delivered to the individual at
    least once daily.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the composition is delivered to the individual more
    than once a day, more than once a week, once a week, once a month, or once a year.
25. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of diagnosing neurodegenerative
    disease in the individual.
26. A kit comprising the composition of claim 1, said composition housed in a suitable
    container or in suitable containers.
                                          - 39 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
