Abstract
A hair scrunchie contains an internal paper sachet, the sachet holding a
scented material. When it is desired for the scent to be released, the sachet
can be torn through the fabric of the hair scrunchie.

           1/1
 12                   10
          Fig. 1
    20
222
          Fig. 2
    20           24
22   I !i         % 22
          Fig. 3

                              AUSTRALIA
                             Patents Act 1990
                  COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
Invention title:
         "SCENTED HAIR SCRUNCHIE"
Applicant:
           GODWIN, LAURAINE AND SIDHU, SURINDER
Associated provisional applications:
The following statement is a full description of the invention, including
the best method of performing it known to me:

                                       2
                        "SCENTED HAIR SCRUNCHIE"
Field of the Invention
[0001] The present invention relates to articles of headwear, in particular,
elasticised fabric rings commonly known as 'scrunchies'.
Background to the Invention
[0002] Australian     innovation patent number 2004100092          describes a
'scented scrunchie', in which absorbent materials to which a scented oil or
perfume has been added are located internally of a hair scrunchie.
[0003] While this product has proved both popular and effective, there are
some limitations to its use. The product has a limited life, as the scent is
dispersed over time. When the product spends a relatively long time in transit
or storage, or on display in a shop, its effective life for a purchaser can be
greatly reduced.
[0004] In addition, where a number of scrunchies are displayed for sale, the
cumulative effect of the scents being released can become problematic.
[0005] The present invention seeks to provide a scented scrunchie which at
least partially addresses these concerns with prior art scrunchies.
Summary of the Invention
[0006] According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a
hair scrunchie formed from an elasticised fabric tube, the hair scrunchie
including a frangible container located internally of the tube, the container
holding an absorbent material to which a scented oil or perfume has been
added.
[0007] Preferably, the frangible container is a sachet.
[0008] More preferably, the sachet is made from paper. The paper may be
lined with an impermeable material such as foil.

                                         3
[0009] In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is
provided a method of scenting a hair scrunchie, the method including the
steps of providing a hair scrunchie including an internally located frangible
container, the container holding an absorbent material to which a scented oil
or perfume has been added; and tearing the frangible container so as to
release the scent.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0010] It will be convenient to further describe the invention with reference to
preferred embodiments of the present invention. Other embodiments are
possible, and consequently the particularity of the following discussion is not
to be understood as superseding the generality of the preceding description
of the invention. In the drawings:
[0011] Figure 1 is a photograph of a hair scrunchie in accordance with the
present invention;
[0012] Figure 2 is a schematic view of a sachet within the hair scrunchie of
Figure 1; and
[0013] Figure 3 is a schematic view inside the sachet of Figure 2.
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0014] Referring to the Figures, there is shown a hair scrunchie 10. The
scrunchie 10 is formed from a tube of fabric 12, which includes an internal
elastic strip (not shown). The elastic strip acts to elasticise the hair scrunchie.
[0015] A frangible container in the form of a paper sachet 20 is located
internally of the tube 12. It is anticipated that the paper sachet 20 will be
formed as a tube of paper which is sealed at both ends 22. The paper may be
plasticised or foil-lined. The sachet 20 may otherwise formed of a substantially
impermeable, frangible material.

                                       4
[0016] The paper sachet 20 contains a granular absorbent material 24, which
has been impregnated with a scented oil or perfume. It is anticipated that the
granular material will be formed from generally spherical grains having a
diameter in the order of 2-3mm.
[0017] The paper sachet 20 can be filled and sealed in a similar manner to
readily available sachets of sugar.
[0018] It is anticipated that the paper sachet 20 will be introduced into the
scrunchie 10 prior to the final seam of the scrunchie 10 being sewn. It can
then be manipulated (e.g. by shaking) into the centre of the tube 12.
[0019] When a user desired to release the scent, they can tear the paper
sachet 20 through the tube 12. This will have the effect of releasing the
absorbent material into the tube 12, from whence the scent can be released
through the fabric.
[0020] Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a skilled
addressee are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.

                                       5
Claims
1.     A hair scrunchie formed from an elasticised fabric tube, the hair
scrunchie including a frangible container located internally of the tube, the
container holding an absorbent material to which a scented oil or perfume has
been added.
2.     A hair scrunchie as claimed in claim 1, wherein the frangible container
is a sachet.
3.     A hair scrunchie as claimed in claim 2, wherein the sachet is made from
paper.
4.     A hair scrunchie as claimed in claim 3, wherein the paper is lined with
an impermeable material.
5.     A method of scenting a hair scrunchie, the method including the steps
of providing a hair scrunchie as claimed in any preceding claim; and tearing
the frangible container so as to release the scent.
GODWIN, LAURAINE AND SIDHU, SURINDER
By their Patent Attorneys
ARMOUR IP
P2269AU00

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
