ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a system and method to prepare and dispense a Nitrogen and/or Carbon
Dioxide gas infused chilled beverage. This involves a refrigerated and self-contained beverage
dispenser consisting of a moulded plastic outer shell, containing all the working parts to conduction
cool beverages. The invention provides detailed information about the beverage by means of a
display unit. The chilled product is dispensed via a faucet and/or tap combined with infused gas,
giving the beverage a unique appearance and enhanced flavour and aroma.

                                                     1
REFRIGERATED SELF-CONTAINED PRESSURISED TANK FOR
DISPENSING GAS INFUSED COLD BEVERAGES
Technical Field of Invention
[0001] The invention relates to the infusion of gases into chilled beverages, so that the product can
be prepared and served for consumption. In particular, the invention relates to a dispensing unit
designed to infuse pressurised gas (Nitrogen - N2 and/or Carbon Dioxide - CO2 ) but not limited to
these gases alone, into a beverage within the chilled pressurised tank. The invention is designed in
particular as, but not exclusively for, beverages such as coffee, teas, sodas, juices and alcoholic
cocktails/drinks.
Background
[0002] It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least ameliorate, one or more of
the deficiencies of the prior art mentioned below, or to provide the consumer with a useful or
commercial choice.
[0003] Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein, by way of
illustration and example, a preferred embodiment of the present invention is disclosed.
[0004] The invention relates to a refrigerated pressurised tank system that prepares and dispenses
a gas infused beverage through a tap and into a receiver, such as a glass. The beverage's appearance
is enhanced by the gas infusion and dispensing process. Infusing beverages with gas can be found in
many products like soda and beer, however infusion of products like coffee and tea as a chilled
beverage is a new phenomenon and has much interest. A chilled beverage such as coffee and tea are
provided with a different flavour profile and texture once the beverage has been infused with
pressurised gases, in particular N2 and CO2 . Infusion of a beverage with N2 can give the beverage a
creamy texture, with a light and fluffy head, commonly found in beverages such as stout beer. The
infusion of N2 in beverages also gives the appearance of bubbles falling or cascading around the
edge of the glass. This appearance is more visible with darker beverages such as coffee or stout beer.
The design of this unit intends to maximise the efficiency of cooling the product, whilst minimising
the footprint of the invention. Maximising the efficiency of cooling is important for two reasons:
          1) the length of time taken to cool the beverage so that the product is ready for
          consumption

                                                      2
         2) infusing beverages with pressurised gas, in particular N2, can be difficult due to the low
         solubility of N2 into a liquid beverage. However, the colder the beverage, the more soluble it
         becomes, making the infusion better and giving the beverage a more unique flavour and a
         better appearance.
[0005]    Delivery of the product is via a tap similar to that often found in a bar or restaurant. The tap
is interchangeable, so you can use a range of different taps for different products. If you want to use
the invention with a beverage infused with N2 , then the preferred tap to use would be a stout tap. A
stout tap has a "Creamer Plate" and a "Flow Restrictor" built into the nozzle, these have two
purposes. The Creamer Plate is a small plate with tiny holes perforated into it, when the infused
beverage is forced through the Creamer Plate the gases are agitated and break out of the liquid and
cause tiny bubbles to form. This gives the appearance of cascading bubbles, whilst at the same time
causing a creamy and fluffy head to form on top of the beverage being poured, giving the drinker a
silky mouthful sensation. The Flow Restrictor is used to slow the flow of product out of the
pressurised tank, ensuring that all of the liquid beverage that is in the line between the tank and the
tap remains under pressure, stopping any of the gases from breaking out of the beverage before it is
poured into the receiver. One of the key features of the invention is the method of gas infusion. The
invention has a gas inlet valve on top of the tank lid for easy infusion of the compressed gases into
the pressurised tank. The gases then travel down a flexible food grade tube and into a stainless-steel
infusion stone. This stone is made up of thousands of 0.5-micron wide holes causing the bubbles to
escape from the infusion stone into the liquid beverage in tiny bubbles. This helps the liquid absorb
the bubbles and therefore become infused.
[0006] The invention is cooled by a small, medium temperature hermetic compressor system
located at the bottom of the unit, the system is fan cooled and uses a commonly available
refrigeration gas. The method of cooling the beverage product is via conduction cooling where the
cooling refrigeration line is coiled around the pressurised tank and then enclosed within insulating
foam.
[0007] The invention is controlled by an easy to read display panel located just above the
dispensing tap, this is connected to a range of sensors that can measure different conditions of both
the beverage as well as the cooling unit itself. This includes, but is not limited to, the volume and
temperature of the beverage, the gas pressure within the pressurised tank and the flow rate of
product being served. This also provides vital information required to run the cooling system, as well
as the ability to notify the user of any faults of the cooling unit and therefore alarming the user prior
to any damage occurring.

                                                      3
Summary of Invention
Technical Problem
[0008] The closest prior art is a "Kegerator" (U.S. PAT. NO. US6481238 B1) which is a domestic
refrigerator designed or altered to store kegs (a pressure tank) and dispense beverages through a
tap system, similar to those that are found in commercial bars and restaurants. Kegerators are
typically used to dispense beer, wine, coffee, teas and sodas. A kegerator works by placing a keg
filled with a beverage product into the main refrigerator compartment where it is chilled by
convection cooling. Attached to the keg is a gas bottle where the pressurised gas forces the product
out of the keg so that it can be poured through a tap into a glass for consumption.
[0009] The objective technical problems that need to be solved in relation to the prior art are as
follows:
Cumbersome: Due to the nature of using pre-existing domestic refrigerators, the space is used
inefficiently and creates a unit that is excessive in size and weight. Units can therefore only be placed
on the floor or under a bench.
Cooling Capacity: Modifying a domestic refrigerator results in the keg having a great deal of extra
space surrounding them, therefore this method of convention cooling is slow and inefficient.
Additionally, every time the door of the refrigerator is opened, cooled air can escape.
Remaining Volume: The beverage to be dispensed is stored within the keg, therefore making it
difficult for the user to determine how much product is available before the keg is empty.
Infusion of Beverages: Infusion is not done cold. With the current design, the user typically connects
the gas to the keg outside of the refrigerator before placing it inside the refrigerator to be chilled.
When working with products that require N2 infusion, it has been found that the colder the initial
infusion, the better the result.
Non-Refrigerated Tower and Tap: Once the beverage product leaves the keg to be poured, it enters
the tower section of the unit. This area is not refrigerated and therefore after a short period of time,
the product temperature will rise and become susceptible to bacterial growth and to a warm
beverage being poured.
Inefficient Transportation Methods: Once product has been used, the keg needs to be replaced or
swapped. As such, empty kegs often need to be returned to the supplier for cleaning and refilling
and results in an extremely costly and inefficient method of supply.

                                                     4
Solution to Problem
[0010] It is against these problems that the present invention has been developed and these are as
follows:
Cumbersome: The invention is a small compact unit that houses the pressure vessel within its self
contained design. The invention also contains a small closed refrigeration system and electrical
control panel.
Cooling Capacity: The invention's design allows the beverage product that is stored within the
pressure vessel to be cooled via conduction cooling. The refrigeration system loops around the
pressure vessel within an insulated jacket, increasing the efficiency of the cooling process.
Infusion of Beverages: With easy access to the gas inlet on top of the invention, the process of
infusing the beverage can be done without the need to move the pressure vessel away from the
refrigeration unit. The second solution of the invention is that the cooling unit continues to run
whilst the product is being filled before infusion, so the infusion can be done cold.
Remaining Volume: The invention has an integrated electronic control system that displays the
remaining volume of product within the pressure vessel.
Non-Refrigerated Tower and Tap: The cooling system continues to refrigerate the beverage product
until the product leaves the tap. This includes the external tap, which is kept at approximately, but
not limited to, 14 degrees Celsius externally and approximately, but not limited to, 5 degrees Celsius
internally.
Inefficient Transportation Methods: Having a fixed cooling pressure vessel removes the
requirement to have interchangeable kegs that need to be transported with product in them. This
allows product to be transported in light-weight bottles or bags in a, but not limited to, a
concentrated form.
Advantageous Effects of Invention
[0011] The advantageous effects of the invention are as follows:
Portable: The invention allows the unit to be easily handled and moved. The invention is small
enough that it can be placed on top of a bench or table. This is critical for the hospitability
environment, particularly due to the limited space for appliances. This is also a consideration for the
domestic customer, as the invention is small enough to be transported by air freight for use in a
household, boat or caravan.
Cooling Capacity: The invention utilises conduction cooling. Having the cooling energy transferred by
direct contact significantly increases the efficiency cooling process, resulting in a near frozen
beverage, using only limited power.

                                                    5
Remaining Volume: Having an integrated electronic control display allows the user to determine the
amount of gas pressure in the tank and to see how much product is remaining. In both a hospitality
and domestic environment, this information is key as it allows the user to forecast when more
product will need to be ordered and refilled into the unit.
Infusion of Beverages: Utilising an inbuilt infusion stone delivers a fine stream of gas into the
beverage. This results in the gas being infused much faster rather than relying on time and pressure
to achieve infusion. Combining this with forced cold infusion maximises the solubility of the
beverage product by ~58.6% for N 2 and ~59.5% for C0 2(B. Averill, 2007). This innovative step results
in less gas use and improved gas infusion of the beverage.
Non-Refrigerated Tower and Tap: Having a chilled tap and lines eliminates the possibility of the
beverage warming at any point in the system. This prevents bacterial growth in the tap even when
nothing has been poured for a few hours compared to a kegerator-like system.
Inefficient Transportation Methods: The invention has a fixed cooling pressure vessel and as such,
the beverage product can be supplied in a, but not limited to, a concentrated form. This results in a
significant reduction in transport weight and therefore cheaper transportation cost.
 [0012] The foregoing paragraphs have been provided in the way of general introduction and are not
intended to limit the scope of the following claims. The described embodiments will be best
understood by reference to the ensuing detailed description taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings.
 Brief Description of Drawings
 [0013] A more complete appreciation of the disclosure and many of the attendant advantages
thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the
following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings,
wherein:
 Fig 1: Shows the invention from an elevated artists impression in a 3D view
 Fig 2: Shows an exploded view of the invention from an elevated position allowing you to see all the
major internal parts
 Fig 3: Shows the display module
 Fig 4: Shows the wiring diagram
 Fig 5: Shows an exploded view of a conventional stout tap
 Fig 6: Shows a conventional gas cylinder and regulator

                                                     6
 Description of Embodiments
 [0014] Throughout this description, all ranges described include all values and sub-ranges therein,
unless otherwise specified. Additionally, the indefinite article "a" or "an" carries the meaning of "one
or more" throughout the description, unless otherwise specified.
 [0015] According to the present invention, the term "beverage" or "product" means any aqueous
liquid material that is a homogeneous liquid having a flavour due to dissolved components.
According to embodiments of the invention, the liquid supplied as a concentrate may contain
suspended solids. As used herein, the term "concentrate" describes any beverage in a high
ingredient content form which is diluted with water to a level appropriate for consumption and
enjoyment.
 [0016] According to the present invention, dispensing of the chilled beverage means opening a tap
of the system to allow the chilled N2 or N2/CO2 infused beverage to flow from the system into a
receiver such as a glass, mug or other drinking container. Throughout the following description, the
term "gas infused" will be employed to describe either a N2 or N2/CO2 infused beverage. If an
embodiment is directed specifically to a N2/CO2 mixture or specifically to only a N2 infusion, the
actual gas composition is explicitly disclosed.
 [0017] Dispensing of the gas infused chilled beverage is an element of the present invention
wherein reduction of pressure on the gas infused beverage allows escape of infused gas and results
in unique properties which distinguishes the dispensed beverage by enhancement of the beverage's
flavour and/or appearance.
 [0018] Throughout this description, the terms gas, pressurised gas, nitrogen, nitrogen gas, N2 and
 N2 gas, are used interchangeably and convey the same meaning unless otherwise specified. These
terms are also interchangeable with any other gas or mixed gas that can be used to infuse a
beverage-like, but not limited to, the use of food grade helium, argon and carbon dioxide also known
as CO 2 .
 [0019] Thus, the first embodiment as shown in FIG. 1 and FIG 2. of the present invention provides a
view of the entire unit as it would be seen, the invention is made up from an outer shell (1, 6, 7, 8, 9)
consisting of handles (10) and a drip tray (24). This all rests on a base plate (21) which supports the
middle support plate (14) via support rods (20). On top of the middle support plate (14) is the tank
(11) which contains the beverage that is to be dispensed from the invention via the tap (29). The
invention is controlled via an Electrical Control Board (19) with information being displayed on the
display module (17).

                                                      7
 [0020] As indicated by the above description and in FIG 1. and FIG 2., to prepare a beverage for
infusion of gas and dispensing by way of pouring the beverage into a receiver, it is recommended
that the user should adhere to the following method, however these methods can change from time
to time and may differ if the user requires a different product or beverage to be poured: The user
should lift and remove the top cover plate (1). If the invention has been previously used, the
invention may have a gas infused beverage and/or pressurised gas within the tank (11), the user may
be required to equalise the pressure within the tank (11) by venting off any gas by way of pulling a
ring attached to the blow off valve (not shown) located on top of the pressure tank (11) before
unscrewing the Tank Lid (2) from the tank (11). The beverage to be served can then be poured into
the tank (11). If the beverage is in a concentrated form, then the user may be required to add water
and the concentrate to the tank (11), as per the instructions of the concentrated beverage supplier.
 [0021]   Further, the embodiment shown in FIG. 2 and FIG 6. forced "nitrogenation" of the beverage
such as, but not limited to coffee, teas and sodas, is by applying pressurised gas to the beverage by
way of connecting a gas cylinder (as shown in FIG 6.) which contains the gas to the invention via a
gas regulator (as shown in FIG 6.) and hose (not shown), the pressureised gas is then forced into the
invention's tank (11) via the tank lid (2) by way of connecting the hose to a fitting (not shown) that
can be screwed into the tank lid (2), the gas then travels through the tube (3) and into the infusion
stone (4). Where the gas escapes, the stone then mixes with the beverage inside the tank (11).
 [0022]   Further, the embodiment shown in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 shows that the beverage now under
positive pressure and infused with pressurised gas is now ready to chill and serve. Cooling is by way
of a refrigeration compressor (23) passing refrigeration gas to the cooling jacket (13) and then
cooling the beverage within the tank (11), the cooling jacket (13) is held in place via the two cooling
jacket ring (12), both the cooling jacket (13) and tank (11) are surrounded by foam that insulates the
product within the tank (11) and allows a more efficient heat transfer action. Heat transfer is via
conductive cooling where the heat is transfer away from the beverage and then removed from the
invention via the condenser and fan motor (22). The beverage in the tank remains refrigerated until
the product leaves the invention, thus allowing the product to be served chilled for each pour. This
also limits the ability for bacterial growth in the beverage as it remains chilled at all times.
 [0023] Further, the embodiment shown in FIG 1. FIG 2 and FIG 3. shows the display module (17)
and display cover (18) which are located just above the tap (29). The display module (17) illustrates
information to the user about the invention and the beverage within the tank (11) of the invention.
The display module (17) offers information such as, but not limited to: Tank pressure (26), gas
infused beverage temperature (25), remaining volume by measurement (27) and remaining volume

                                                      8
by Illustration (28). The display module (17) can also be used to display further information about
the invention such as, but not limited to, the cooling unit (23) running temperature, condenser and
fan motor (22) temperature, GPS location, beverage usage/volumes, flow rate. All of this
information can be calculated within the Electrical Control Board (19) and then displayed on the
display module (17) and sent via GPS to a central location for monitoring and support.
[0024] The embodiment shown in FIG 4. is the electrical wiring diagram for the invention.
[0025] The tap (29) shown in FIG. 1 and FIG 5. may be, but is not limited to, a slow pour tap
designed to dispense the chilled, gas infused beverage at a controlled rate to allow foam formation
upon dispense and provide the unique flavour and appearance associated with the product,
obtained via dispense from the system of this invention. Such slow pour taps retain pressure
necessary in the line even when gas infused beverage is being dispensed. Commercially available
taps typically employed to tap beer are suitable for use as the tap (29).
[0026] FIG. 6 shows a standard gas supply assembly that may be utilised with the dispense system
of the present invention. The invention is not limited to the assembly of FIG. 7 and any pressure
regulated supply system providing N2 or N2 mixed gas may be employed.
CITATIONS
Patent Citations
US6481238 B1, Thomas A. Jennings, Stephen E. Bertrand "Keg Server", Published: 19 November
2001
Non-Patent Citations
 Bruce A. Averill, "Chemistry: Principles, Patterns, and Applications" Prentice Hall; 1st edition (2007)

                                                     9
CLAIMS
1.        A refrigerated and self-contained beverage dispenser used for preparing and pouring gas
infused cold beverages; Consisting of an outer shell preferably moulded plastic but not necessarily
limited to this material; within containing all the working parts to conduction cool beverages using a
refrigeration system whilst infusing the beverage with pressurised gas and then pouring the
beverage via a faucet and/or tap; The invention provides detailed information about the
beverage and the status of the unit itself by means of a display showing information such
as temperature, volume, time, pressures, service needs and other information not limited to the
aforementioned.
2.        The tank of claim 1 wherein the tank is made preferably of food grade stainless-steel but not
limited to this material alone and is designed that it can be injected with pressurised gases such
as Nitrogen - N2 and/or Carbon Dioxide     - CO2 or a mixture of such gasses but not limited to these
gasses only; Infusion of gases into most beverages is preferably carried out at between 35 to
45psi but not limited to these pressures and infusion is assisted preferably with the use of
an infusion stone; the infusion stone in this case is connected via a tube to the gas inlet located on
the tank lid; the tank is designed to allow much higher pressures than is usually needed to infuse the
beverage; The tank is fitted with a safety blow-off valve preferably 100psi allowing for excess gases
to be vented off into the outside atmosphere, thus maintaining the structural integrity of the tank
and keeping the operator safe; Around the outside of the tank is the evaporator, this
part preferably consists of refrigeration pipe that is coiled around the outside of the tank; the coil
delivers refrigeration gas to the evaporator and therefore in this instance cools the liquid within the
tank via conduction cooling, however it is not limited to this method; the tank and the refrigeration
line in this instance are surrounded by a layer of insulation foam or other material which
insulates the product to increase the efficiency of the heat transfer between the product within the
tank and the refrigeration system as well as minimise temperature loss of the liquid within the tank.
3.        The infusion of claim 1 and 2 wherein pressurised gases are forced into the beverage are
increased by the use of an infusion stone and by infusing a refrigerated or cold liquid; the infusion
stone is preferably a stainless-steel stone that is made up of thousands of holes approximately 0.5
micron wide; the pressurised gas is forced out of the infusion stone and into the beverage within the
tank.

                                                  10
4.      To dispense the beverage of claim 1 wherein the beverage is forced from the tank to the
dispenser via positive pressure and then poured through a tap designed to in agitate the infused
gases that are within the liquid.
5.      The cooling of the product of claim 1 and 2 wherein the beverage is refrigerated at all
times whilst within the invention thus reducing the risk of bacterial growth or spoilage of the
beverage before it has been poured.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
