                                        ABSTRACT
        Provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist, an
agonist, a seal coat, and a sequestering polymer, wherein the antagonist, agonist, seal coat
and at least one sequestering polymer are all components of a single unit, and wherein the
seal coat forms a layer physically separating the antagonist from the agonist from one
another. Methods for manufacturin such a pharmaceutical composition are also provided.

    WO 2007/149438                                                            PCT/US2007/014282
                           PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 60/814,949 filed June 19, 2006.
 5 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           This invention pertains to a sequestering subunit comprising an antagonist and a
   blocking agent, and related compositions and methods of use, such as in the prevention of
   abuse of a therapeutic agent.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Opioids, also called opioid agonists, are a class of drugs that exhibit opium-like or
   morphine-like properties. The opioids are employed primarily as moderate to strong
   analgesics, but have many other pharmacological effects as well, including drowsiness,
   respiratory depression, changes in mood, and mental clouding without a resulting loss of
15 consciousness. Because of these other pharmacological effects, opioids have become the
   subject of dependence and abuse. Therefore, a major concern associated with the use of
   opioids is the diversion of these drugs from the illicit user, e.g., an addict.
           Physical dependence may develop upon repeated administrations or extended use
   of opioids. Physical dependence is gradually manifested after stopping opioid use or is
20 precipitously manifested (e.g., within a few minutes) after administration of a narcotic
   antagonist (referred to "precipitated withdrawal"). Depending upon the drug upon which
   dependence has been established and the duration of use and dose, symptoms of
   withdrawal vary in number and kind, duration and severity. The most common symptoms
   of the withdrawal syndrome include anorexia, weight loss, pupillary dilation, chills
25 alternating with excessive sweating, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, muscle
   spasms, hyperirritability, lacrimation, rinorrhea, goose flesh and increased heart rate.
   Natural abstinence syndromes typically begin to occur 24-48 hours after the last dose,
   reach maximum intensity about the third day and may not begin to decrease until the
   third week. Precipitated abstinence syndromes produced by administration of an opioid
30 antagonist vary in intensity and duration with the dose and the specific antagonist, but
   generally vary from a few minutes to several hours in length.

      WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
            Psychological dependence ot addiction to opioids is characterized by drug
   seeking behavior directed 'toward        achieving   euphoria    and  escape from, e.g.,
   psychosocioeconomic pressures. An addict will continue to administer opioids for non
   medicinal purposes and in the face of self-harm.
 5          Although   opioids, such as morphine, hydromorphone,            hydrocodone and
   oxycodone, are effective in the management of pain, there has been an increase in their
   abuse by individuals who are psychologically dependent on opioids or who misuse
   opioids for non-therapeutic reasons. Previous experience with other opioids has
   demonstrated a decreased abuse potential when opioids are administered in combination
10 with a narcotic antagonist, especially in patients who are ex-addicts (Weinhold et al;,
   Drug and Alcohol Dependence 30:263-274 (1992); and Mendelson et al., Clin. Pharm.
    Ther. 60:105-114 (1996)). These combinations, however, do not contain the opioid
   antagonist that is in a sequestered form. Rather, the opioid antagonist is released in the
   gastrointestinal system when orally administered and is made available for absorption,
15 relying on the physiology of the host to metabolize differentially the agonist and
   antagonist and negate the agonist effects.
            Previous attempts to control the abuse potential associated with opioid analgesics
    include, for example, the combination of pentazocine and naloxone in tablets,
    commercially available in the United States as Talwin@Nx from Sanofi-Winthrop,
20  Canterbury, Australia. Talwin@Nx contains pentazocine hydrochloride equivalent to 50 .
    mg base and naloxone hydrochloride equivalent to 0.5 mg base. Talwin@Nx is indicated
    for the relief of moderate to severe pain. The amount of naloxone present in this
    combination has low activity when taken orally, and minimally interferes with the
    pharmacologic action of pentazocine. However, this amount of naloxone given.
25  parenterally has profound antagonistic action to narcotic analgesics. 'thus, the inclusion
    of naloxone is intended to curb a form of misuse of oral pentazocine,. which occurs when
    the-dosage form is solubilized and injected. Therefore, this dosage has lower potential for
    parenteral misuse than previous oral pentazocine formulations. However, it is still subject
    to patient misuse and abuse by the oral route, for example, by the patient taking multiple
30  doses at once. A fixed combination therapy comprising tilidine (50 mg) and naloxone (4
    mg) has been available in Germany for the management of severe pain since 1978
                                                 2

      WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   (Valoron@N, Goedecke). The rationale for the combination of these drugs is effective
   pain relief and the prevention of tilidine addiction through naloxone-induced antagonisms
   at the tilidine receptors. A fixed combination of buprenorphine and naloxone was
   introduced in 1991 in New Zealand (Terngesic@Nx, Reckitt & Colman) for the treatment
 5 of pain.
            International Patent Application No. PCT/US01/04346            (WO 01/58451) to
   Euroceltique, S.A., describes the use of a pharmaceutical composition that contains a
    substantially non-releasing opioid antagonist and a releasing opioid agonist as separate
    subunits that are combined into a pharmaceutical dosage form, eg., tablet or capsule.
10  However, because the agonist and antagonist are in separate subunits, they can be readily
    separated. Further, providing the agonist and antagonist as separate subunits, tablets are
    more difficult to form due to the mechanical sensitivity of some subunits comprising a
    sequestering agent.
             The benefits of the abuse-resistant dosage form are especially great in connection
15  with oral. dosage forms of strong opioid agonists (e.g., morphine, hydromorphone,
    oxycodone or hydrocodone), which provide valuable analgesics but are prone to being
    abused. This is'particularly true for sustained-release opioid agonist products, which have
    a large. dose of a. desirable opioid agonist intended to be released over a period of time in
    each dosage unit. Drug abusers take such sustained release product and crush, grind,
20  extract or otherwise damage the product so that the full contents of the dosage form
    become available for immediate absorption.
             Such abuse-resistant, sustained-release dosage forms have been described in the
    art (see, for example, U.S. Application Nos. 2003/0124185 and 2003/0044458).
    However, it is believed that substantial amounts of the opioid antagonist or other
25  antagonist found in these sequestered forms are released over time (usually less than 24
    hours) due to the osmotic pressure that builds up in. the core of the sequestered form, as
    water permeates through the sequestered form into the core. The high osmotic pressure
    inside the core of the sequestered form causes the opioid antagonist or antagonist to be
    pushed out of the sequestered form, thereby causing the opioid antagonist or antagonist to
30  be released from the sequestered. form.
                                                    3

       WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
             In view of the foregoing drawbacks of the sequestered forms of the prior art, there
    exists a need in the art for a sequestered form of an opioid antagonist or other antagonist.
    that is not substantially released from the sequestered form due to osmotic pressure. The
    invention provides such a sequestering form of an opioid antagonist or antagonist. This
 5. and other objects and advantages of the invention, as well as additional inventive
    features, will be apparent from the description of the invention provided herein.
    BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             Provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist, an
10  agonist, a seal coat,,and a sequestering polymer, wherein the   antagonist, agonist; seal coat
    and at least one sequestering polymer are all components. of a single unit, and wherein the
    seal coat forms a layer physically separating the antagonist from the agonist from one
    another. In one embodiment, a multi-layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an
    agonist and an antagonist thereof, wherein the agonist and antagonist are not in contact
15  with one another in the intact form of the composition, wherein the agonist is
     substantially released and the antagonist is substantially sequestered upon administration
    to a human being is provided.           Methods for manufacturing such a pharmaceutical
    composition are also provided.. In another embodiment, a method for measuring the
     amount of antagonist or derivative thereof in a biological sample, the antagonist or
20   derivative having been released from a pharmaceutical composition in vivo, the method
     comprising the USP paddle method at 37"C, 100 rpm, but further comprising incubation
     in a buffer containing a surfactant.
     BRIEFDESCRIPTION OF THE -DRAWINGS
25   Figure 1.       Naltrexone (NT) release from Eudragit* RS-coated pellets without SLS.
     Figure 2.       Effect of SLS levels in Eudragit* RS coat on naltrexone (NT) release.
     Figure 3.       Effect of SLS levels in Eudragit* RS coat on naltrexone (NT) release.
     Figure 4.       Effect of talc levels in Eudragit* RS coat on naltrexone (NT) release.
     Figure 5.       Naltrexone dissolution profile vs. Eudragit* RS neutralization at 26%
30   (v/v) talc.
                                                    4

      WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
   Figure 6.       Naltrexone dissolution profile vs. talc level at 41% Eudragit* RS
   neutralization.
   Figure 7.       Plasma naltrexone levels for naltrexone (NTX) solution.
   Figure 8.       Plasma. 6-beta-naltrexol levels for naltrexone (NTX) solution.
 5 Figure 9.       Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1460 and PI-1461.
   Figure 10.      Plasma 6-beta naltrexol levels for PI-1460 and PI-1461.
   Figure 11.      Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1462 and PI-1463.
   Figure 12.      Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels for PI-1462 and PI-1463.
   Figure 13.      Percent naltrexone (NT) release for PI-1465 and PI-1466.
10 Figure 14.      Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1465 and PI-I 466.
   Figure 15.      Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels for PI-1465 and PI-1466.
   Figure 16.      Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1465 and PI-1466 (fast and fed).
   Figure 17.      Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels for PI-1465 and PI-1466 (fast and fed).
   Figure 18.      Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1495 and PI-1496 (fast and fed).
15 Figure 19.      Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels for PI-1495 and PI-1496 (fast and fed).
   Figure 20.      Plasma naltrexone levels for PI-1510 (fast and fed).
   Figure 21.      Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels for PI-1510 (fast and fed).
   Figure 22 A and B.         Exemplary manufacturing process for multi-layer naltrexone
   morphine pharmaceutical composition.
20
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            Provided herein are compositions and methods for administering a multiple active
    agents to a mammal in a form and manner that minimizes the effects of either active
    agent upon the other in vivo.      In certain embodiments, at least two active agents are
25  formulated as part of 'a pharmaceutical composition. .A first active agent may provide a
    therapeutic effect in vivo. The second actiVe agent may be an antagonist of the first
    active agent, and may be useful in preventing misuse of the composition. For instance,
    where the first active agent is a narcotic, the second active agent may be an antagonist of
    the narcotic. The composition remains intact during normal usage by patients and the
30  antagonist is not released.       However, upon tampering with the composition, the
    antagonist may be released thereby preventing the narcotic from having its intended
                                                   5

      WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   effect. In certain embodiments, the active agents are both contained within a single unit,
   such as a bead, in the. form of layers.       The active agents may be formulated with a
   substantially impermeable barrier as, for example, a controlled-release composition, such
   that release of the antagonist from the composition is minimized.                   In certain.
 5 embodiments, the antagonist is released in in vitro assays but is substantially not released
   in vivo. In vitro and in vivo release of the active agent from the composition may be
   measured by any of several well-known techniques. For instance, in vivo release may be
   determined by measuring the plasma levels of the active agent or metabolites thereof (i.e.,
   AUC, Cmax).
10           In one embodiment,'the invention provides a sequestering subunit comprising an
    opioid antagonist and a blocking agent, wherein the blocking agent substantially prevents
    release of the opioid antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract
    for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. This sequestering subunit is incorporated
    into a single pharmaceutical unit that also includes an opioid agonist.                  The
15  pharmaceutical unit thus includes a core portion to Which the opioid antagonist is applied.
    A seal coat is then optionally applied upon the antagonist. Upon the seal coat is then
    applied a composition comprising the pharmaceutically active agent. An additional layer
    containing the same or a different blocking agent may then be applied such that the
    opioid agonist is released in the digestive tract over time (i.e., controlled release). Thus,
20  the opioid antagonist and the opioid agonist are both contained within a single
    pharmaceutical unit, which is typically in the form of a bead.
              The term "sequestering subunit" as used herein refers to any means for containing
    an antagonist and preventing or substantially preventing the release thereof in the
    gastrointestinal tract when intact, i.e., when not tampered with. The term "blocking
25  agent" as used herein refers to the means. by which the sequestering subunit is able to
    prevent substantially the antagonist from being released. The blocking agent may be a
     sequestering polymer, for.instance, as described in greater detail below.
              The terms "substantially prevents," "prevents," or any words stemming therefrom,
     as used herein, means that the antagonist is substantially not released from the
30   sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract. By "substantially not released" is meant
     that the antagonist may be released in a small amount, but the amount released does not
                                                   6

      WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   affect or does not significantly affect the analgesic efficacy when the dosage form is
   orally administered to a host, e.g.; a mammal (e.g., a human),, as intended. The terms
   "substantially prevents," "prevents," or any words stemming therefrom, as used herein,
   does not necessarily imply a complete or .100% prevention. Rather, there are varying
 5 degrees of prevention of which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes as having a
   potential benefit. In this regard, the blocking agent substantially prevents or prevents the
   release of the antagonist to the extent that at least about 80%' of the antagonist is
   prevented from being released from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract
   for a time period that .is greater than 24 hours. Preferably, the blocking agent prevents
10 release of at least about 90% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
   gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. More preferably, the
   blocking agent prevents release of at least about 95% of the antagonist from the
    sequestering subunit. Most preferably, the blocking agent prevents release of at least
   about 99% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for
15  a time period that is greater than 24 hours.
            For purposes of this invention, the amount of the antagonist released after oral
    administration can be measured in-vitro by dissolution testing as described in the United
    States Pharmacopeia (USP26) in chapter <711> Dissolution. For example, using 900 mL
    of 0.1 N HCl, Apparatus 2 (Paddle), 75 rpm, at 370 C to measure release at various times
20  from the dosage unit. Other methods of measuring the release of an antagonist from a
    sequestering subunit over a given period of time are known in the art (see, e.g., USP26).
            Without being bound to any particular theory, it is believed that the sequestering.
    subunit of the invention overcomes the limitations of the sequestered forms of an
    antagonist known in the art in that the sequestering subunit of the invention reduces
25  osmotically-driven release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit. Furthermore,
    it is believed that the present inventive sequestering subunit reduces the release of the
    antagonist for a longer period of time (e.g., greater than 24 hours) in comparison to the
    sequestered forms of antagonists known in the art. The fact that the sequestered subunit
    of the invention provides a longer prevention of release of the antagonist is particularly
30  relevant, since precipitated withdrawal could occur after the time for which the
    therapeutic agent is released and acts. It is well known that the gastrointestinal tract
                                                   7

       WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
    transit time for individuals varies greatly within the population. Hence, the residue-of the
    dosage form may be retained in the tract for longer than 24 hours, and in some cases for
    longer than 48 hours. It is further well known that opioid analgesics cause decreased
    bowel motility, further prolonging gastrointestinal tract transit time. Currently, sustained
 5  release forms having an effect over a 24 hour time period have been approved by the
    Fdod and Drug Administration. In this regard, the present inventive sequestering subunit
    provides prevention of release of the antagonist for a time period that is greater than 24
    hours when the sequestering- subunit has not been tampered.
             The sequestering subunit of the invention'is designed to prevent' substantially the
10  release of the antagonist when intact. By "intact" is meant that a dosage form has not
    undergone tampering. The term "tampering" is meant to include any manipulation by
    mechanical, thermal and/or chemical means, which changes the physical properties of the
     dosage form. The tampering can be, for example, crushing, shearing, grinding, chewing,
     dissolution in a solvent, heating (for example, greater than about 45 0 C), or any
15.  combination thereof. When the sequestering subunit of the invention has been tampered
    with, the antagonist is immediately released from the sequestering subunit.
             By "subunit" is meant to include a composition, mixture, particle; etc., that can
    provide a dosage form (e.g., an oral dosage form) when combined with another subunit.
     The subunit can be in the form of a bead, pellet, granule, spheroid, or the like, and can be
20   combined with additional same or different subunits, in the form of a capsule, tablet or
     the like, to provide a dosage form, e.g., an oral dosage form. The subunit may also be
     part of a larger, single unit, forming part of that unit, such as -a layer. For instance, the
     subunit may be a core coated with an antagonist and a seal coat; this subunit may then be
     coated with additional compositions including a pharmaceutically active agent such as an
25   opioid agonist.
             By "antagonist of a therapeutic agent" is meant any drug or molecule, naturally
     occurring or synthetic that binds to the same target molecule (e.g., a receptor) of the
     therapeutic agent, yet does not produce a therapeutic, intracellular, or in vivo response. In
     this regard, the antagonist of a therapeutic agent binds to the receptor of the therapeutic
30   agent, thereby preventing the therapeutic agent from acting on the receptor. In the case
     of opioids, an antagonist may prevent the achievement of a "high" in the host.
                                                   8

      WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
            The antagonist can be any agent that negates the effect of the therapeutic agent or
   produces 'an unpleasant or punishing stimulus or effect, which will deter or cause
   avoidance of tampering with the sequestering subunit or compositions comprising the
   same. Desirably, the antagonist does not harm a host by its administration or
 5 consumption but has properties that deter its administration or consumption, e.g., by
   chewing and swallowing or by crushing and snorting, for example. The antagonist can
   have a strong or foul taste or smell, provide a burning or tingling sensation, cause a
    lachrymation response, nausea, vomiting, or any other unpleasant or repugnant sensation,
    or color 'tissue, for example. Preferably, the antagonist is selected from the group
10 consistingg of an antagonist of a therapeutic agent, a bittering agent, a dye, a gelling agent,
    and an irritant. Exemplary antagonists include capsaicin, dye, bittering agents and
    emetics.- The antagonist can comprise a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capsaicin),
    multiple forms of a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capasin and an analogue thereof), or
    a combination of different types of antagonists (e.g., one or more bittering agents and one
15  or more gelling agents). Desirably, the amount of antagonist in the sequestering subunit
    of the invention is not toxic to the host.
             In the instance when the therapeutic agent is- an opioid agonist, the antagonist
    preferably is an opioid antagonist, such as naltrexone, naloxone, nalmefene, cyclazacine,
    levallorphan, derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof,.
20  and combinations thereof. More preferably,. the opioid antagonist is naloxone or
    naltrexone. By "opioid antagonist" is meant to include one or more opioid antagonists,
    either alone or in combination, and is further meant to include partial antagonists,
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, stereoisomers thereof, ethers thereof, esters
    thereof, and combinations thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include metal
25  salts, such as sodium salt, potassium salt, cesium salt, and the like; alkaline earth metals,
    such as calcium salt, magnesium salt, and the like; organic amine salts,              .such  as
    triethylamine salt, pyridine salt, picoline salt, ethanolamine salt, triethanolamine salt,
    dicyclohexylamine salt, NN-dibenzylethylenediamine salt, and the like; inorganic acid
    salts, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, and the like; organic acid
30  salts, such as formate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, tartrate, and the like; sulfonates,
     such as methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and the like; amino. acid
                                                   9

      WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   salts, such as arginate, asparginate, glutamate, and the like. In certain embodiments, the
   amount of the opioid antagonist can be about 10 ng to about 275 mg. In a preferred
   embodiment, when the antagonist is naltrexone, it is preferable that the intact dosage
   form releases less than 0.125 mg or less within 24 hours, with 0.25 mg or greater of
 5 naltrexone released after 1 hour when the dosage form is crushed or chewed.
             In a preferred embodiment, the opioid antagonist comprises naloxone. Naloxone
   is an opioid antagonist, which is almost void of agonist effects. Subcutaneous doses of up
   to 12 mg of naloxone produce no discernable subjective effects, and 24 mg naloxone
   causes only ~slight drowsiness. Small doses (0.4-0.8 mg): of naloxone given
10 intraniuscuilarly or -intravenously in man prevent or proriptly reverse the effects of
   morphine-like opioid agonist. One mg of naloxone intravenously has been reported to
   block completely the effect of 25 mg of heroin. The effects of naloxone are seen almost
   immediately after intravenous 'administration.        The drug is absorbed after oral
   administration, but has been reported to be metabolized into an inactive form rapidly in
15  its first passage through the liver, such that it has been reported to have significantly
    lower potency than when parenterally administered. Oral dosages of more than 1 g have
    been reported to be almost completely metabolized in less than 24 hours. It has been
    reported that 25% of naloxone administered sublingually is absorbed (Weinberg et al.,
    Clin. Pharmacol. Ther. 44:335-340 (1988)).
20            In another preferred embodiment, the opioid antagonist comprises naltrexone. In
    the treatment of patients previously addicted to opioids, naltrexone has been used in large
    oral doses (over 100 mg) to prevent euphorigenic effects of opioid agonists. Naltrexone
    has been reported to exert strong preferential blocking action against mu over delta sites.
   Naltrexone is known as a synthetic congener of oxymorphone with no opioid agonist
25  properties, and differs in structure from oxymorphone by- the replacement of the methyl
    group located on the nitrogen atom of oxymorphone with a cyclopropylmethyl group.
    The hydrochloride salt of naltrexone is soluble in water up -to about 100 mg/cc. The
    pharmacological and pharmacokinetic properties of naltrexone have been evaluated in
    multiple animal and clinical studies. See, e.g., Gonzalez et al. Drugs 35:192-213 (1988).
30  Following oral administration, naltrexone is rapidly absorbed (within 1 hour) and has an
                                                 10

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   oral bioavailability ranging from 5-40%. Naltrexone's protein binding is approximately
   21% and the volume of distribution following single-dose administration is 16.1 L/kg.
            Naltrexone is commercially available in tablet form (Revia@,' DuPont
   (Wilmington, Del.)) for the treatment of alcohol dependence and for the blockade of
 5 exogenously administered opioids. See, e.g., Revia (naltrexone hydrochloride tablets),
   Physician's Desk Reference, 5 1s ed., Montvale, N.J.; and Medical Economics 51:957-959
   (1997). A dosage of 50 mg: Revia@ blocks the pharmacological effects of 25 mg IV
   administered heroin for up to 24 hours. It is known that, when coadministered with
   morphirie, heroin or other opioids on a chronic basis, naltrexone blocks the development
10 of physical'dependence to opioids. It is believed that the method by which naltrexone
   blocks the effects of heroin is by competitively binding at the opioid receptors.
   Naltrexone has been used to treat narcotic addiction by complete blockade of the effects
   of opioids. It has been found that the most successful use of naltrexone for a narcotic
   addiction is with narcotic addicts having good prognosis, as part of a -comprehensive
15  occupational or rehabilitative program involving behavioral control or other compliance
    enhancing methods. For treatment of narcotic dependence with naltrexone, it is desirable
   that the patient be opioid-free for at least 7-10 days. The initial dosage of naltrexone for
    such purposes has typically been about 25 mg, and if no withdrawal signs occur, the
    dosage may be increased to 50 mg per .day. A daily dosage of 50 mg is considered to
20 produce adequate clinical blockade of the actions of parenterally. administered opioids.
 - Naltrexone also has been used for the treatment of alcoholism as an adjunct with social
    and psychotherapeutic methods. Other preferred opioid antagonists include, for example,
    cyclazocine and naltrexone, both of which have cyclopropylmethyl substitutions on the
    nitrogen, retain much of their efficacy by the oral route, and last longer, with durations
25  approaching 24 hours after oral administration.
             The antagonist may also be a bittering agent. The term "bittering agent" as used
    herein refers to any agent that provides an unpleasant taste to the host upon inhalation
    and/or swallowing of a tampered dosage form comprising the sequestering subunit. With
    the inclusion of a bittering agent, the intake of the tampered dosage form produces a
30  bitter taste upon inhalation or oral administration, which, in certain embodiments, spoils
                                                  11

         WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
     or hinders the pleasure of obtaining a high from the tampered dosage form, and
     preferably prevents the abuse of the dosage form.
               Various bittering agents can be employed including, for example, and without
     limitation, natural, artificial and synthetic flavor oils and flavoring aromatics and/or oils,
 5   oleoresins and extracts derived from plants, leaves, flowers, fruits, and so forth, and
     combinations thereof. Non-limiting representative flavor oils include spearmint oil,
     peppermint oil, eucalyptus oil, oil of nutmeg, allspice, mace, oil of bitter almonds,
     menthol and the like. Also useful bittering agents are artificial, natural and synthetic fruit
      flavors such as citrus oils, including lemon, orange,'lime, and grapefruit, fruit esences,
10   -and so forth. Additional bittering agents include sucrose derivatives (e.g., sucrose
      octaacetate), chlorosucrose derivatives, quinine sulphate, and' the like. A preferred
      bittering agent for use in the invention is Denatonium Benzoate NF-Anhydrous, sold
      under the name BitrexTM (Macfarlan Smith Limited, Edinburgh, UK). A bittering agent
      can be added to the formulation in an amount of less than about 50% by weight,
15    preferably less than about 10% by'weight, more preferably less than about 5% by weight
      of the dosage form, and most' preferably in an amount ranging from about 0.1 to 1.0
      percent by weight of the dosage form, depending on the particular bittering agent(s) used.
                Alternatively, the antagonist may be' a dye. The term "dye" as used herein refers
      to any agent that causes discoloration of the tissue in contact. In this regard, if the
20    sequestering subunit is tampered with and the contents are snorted, the dye will discolor
      the nasal tissues and surrounding tissues thereof. Preferred dyes are those that can bind
       strongly with subcutaneous tissue proteins and are well-known in the art. Dyes useful in
      applications ranging from, for example, food coloring to tattooing, are exemplary dyes
      suitable for the invention. Food coloring dyes include, but are not limited to FD&C Green
25 . #3 and FD&C Blue #1, as well as any other FD&C or D&C color. Such food dyes are
      commercially available through companies, such as Voigt Global Distribution (Kansas
       City, Mo.).
                The antagonist may -alternatively be an irritant. The term "irritant" as used herein
       includes 'a compound used to impart an irritating, e.g., burning or uncomfortable,
30     sensation to an abuser administering a tampered dosage form of the invention. Use of an
       irritant will discourage an abuser from tampering with the dosage form and thereafter
                                                     12

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   inhaling, injecting, or swallowing the tampered dosage form. Preferably, the irritant is
   released when the dosage form is tampered with and provides a burning or irritating
   effect to the abuser upon inhalation, injection, and/or swallowing the tampered dosage
   form. Various irritants can be employed including, for example, and without limitation,
 5 capsaicin, a capsaicin analog with similar type properties as capsaicin, and the like. Some
   capsaicin 'analogues or derivatives include, for example, and without~ limitation,
   resiniferatoxin, tinyatoxin, -heptanoylisobutylamide, heptanoyl. guaiacylamide, other
   isobutylamides or guaiacylamides, dihydrocapsaicin, homovanillyl (octylester, nonanoyl
   vanillylamide, or other compounds of the class known as' vanilloids. Resiniferatoxin is
10 described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,290,816. U.S. Pat. No. 4;812,446 describes
   capsaicin analogs and methods for their preparation. Furthermore, U.S. Pat. No.
    4,424,205 cites Newman, "Natural and Synthetic Pepper-Flavored                  Substances,"
    published in 1954 as listing pungency of capsaicin-like analogs. Ton et al., British
   Journal of Pharmacology 10:175-182 (1955), discusses pharmacological actions of
15  capsaicin and its analogs. With the inclusion of an irritant (e.g., capsaicin) in the dosage
    form, the irritant imparts a -burning or discomforting quality to the abuser to discourage
    the inhalation, injection, or oral administration of the tampered dosage form, and
    preferably to prevent the abuse of the dosage form. Suitable capsaicin compositions
    include capsaicin (trans 8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-noneamide) or analogues thereof in a
20  concentration between about 0.00125% and 50% by weight, preferably between about
    1% and about 7.5% by weight, and most preferably, between about 1%and about 5% by
    weight.
            The antagonist may also be a gelling agent. The term "gelling agent" as used
   'herein refers to any agent that provides a gel-like quality to the tampered dosage form,
25  which slows the absorption of the therapeutic agent, which is formulated with the
    sequestering subunit, such that a host is less likely to obtain a rapid "high." In certain
    preferred embodiments, when the dosage form is tampered with and exposed to a small
    amount (e.g., less than about 10 ml) of an aqueous liquid (e.g., water), the dosage form
    will be unsuitable for injection and/or inhalation. Upon the addition of the aqueous liquid,
30  the tampered dosage form preferably becomes thick and viscous, rendering it unsuitable
    for injection. The term "unsuitable for injection" is defined for purposes of the invention
                                                  13

     WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
   to mean that one would have substantial difficulty injecting the dosage form (e.g., due to
   pain upon administration or difficulty pushing the dosage form through a syringe) due to
   the viscosity imparted on the dosage form, thereby reducing the potential for abuse of the
   therapeutic agent in the dosage form. In certain embodiments, the gelling agent is present
 5 in such an amount in the dosage form that attempts at evaporation (by the application of
   heat) to an aqueous mixture of the dosage form in an effort to produce a higher
   concentration of the therapeutic agent, produces a highly viscous substance unsuitable for
   injection. When nasally inhaling the tampered dosage form, the gelling agent can become
   gel-like upon administration to the nasal passages, due ,to the moisture 'of the mucous
10 membranes. This also makes such formulations aversive to iasal administration, as the
   gel will stick to the nasal passage and minimize absorption of the abusable substance.
   Various gelling agents may can be employed including, for example, and without
   limitation, sugars or sugar-derived alcohols, such as mannitol, sorbitol, and the like,
   starch and starch derivatives,. cellulose derivatives, such as microcrystalline cellulose,
15 sodium caboxymethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, ethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose,
   hydroxypropyl cellulose, and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, attapulgites, bentonites,
   dextrins, alginates, carrageenan, gum tragacant, gum acacia, guar gum, xanthan gum,
   pectin, gelatin, kaolin, lecithin, magnesium aluminum silicate, the carbomers and
   carbopols, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycol, polyethylene oxide, polyvinyl
20 alcohol, silicon dioxide, surfactants, mixed surfactant/wetting agent systems, emulsifiers,
   other polymeric materials, and mixtures thereof; etc. In certain preferred embodiments,
   the gelling agent is xanthan gum. In other preferred embodiments, the gelling agent of the
   invention is pectin. The pectin or pectic substances useful for this invention include not
   only purified or isolated pectates but also crude natural pectin sources, such as apple,
25 citrus or sugar beet residues, which have been subjected, when necessary, to esterification
   or de-esterification, e.g., by alkali or enzymes. Preferably, the pectins used in this
   invention are derived from citrus fruits, such as lime, lemon, grapefruit, and orange,
   With the inclusion of a gelling agent in the dosage form, the gelling agent preferably
   imparts a gel-like quality to the dosage form upon tampering that spoils or hinders the
30 pleasure of obtaining a rapid high from due to the gel-like consistency of the tampered
   dosage form in contact with the mucous membrane, and in certain embodiments, prevents
                                                14

      WO 2007/149438                                                           PCT/US2007/014282
    the abuse of the dosage form by minimizing absorption, e.g., in the nasal passages. A'
    gelling agent can be added to the formulation in a ratio of gelling agent to .opioid-agonist
    of.from about 1:40 to about 40:1 by weight, preferably from about 1:1 to about 30:1 by
    weight, and more preferably from about 2:1 to about 10:1 by weight of the opioid
  5 agonist. In certain other embodiments, the dosage form forms a viscous gel having a
    viscosity of at least about 10 cP after the dosage form is tampered with by dissolution in
    an aqueous liquid (from about 0.5 to about 10 ml and preferably from 1 to about 5 ml).
    Most preferably, the resulting mixture will have a viscosity of at least about 60 cP.
            -The "blocking agent" prevents or substantially prevents' the release of the
10  antagonist in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours, e.g.,
    between 24 and 25 hours, 30 hours, 35 hours, 40 hours, 45 hours, 48 hours, 50 hours, 55
    hours, 60 hours, 65 hours, 70 hours, 72 hours, 75 hours, 80 hours, 85 hours, 90 hours, 95
    hours, or 100 hours; etc. Preferably, the time period for which the release of the
    antagonist is prevented or substantially prevented in the gastrointestinal tract is at least
15  about 48 hours. More preferably, the blocking agent prevents or substantially prevents the
    release for a time period of at least about 72 hours.
             The blocking agent of the present inventive sequestering subunit can be a system
    comprising a first antagonist-impermeable material and a core. By "antagonist
 .  impermeable material' is meant any material that is substantially impermeable to the
20   antagonist, such that the antagonist is substantially not released from the sequestering
    subunit. The term "substantially impermeable" as used herein does not necessarily imply
 -   complete or 100% impermeability. Rather, there are varying degrees of impermeability of
-   which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes as having a potential benefit. In this
    regard, the antagonist-impermeable material substantially prevents or prevents the release
25   of the antagonist to an extent that at least about 80% of the antagonist is prevented from
    being released from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period
    that is greater than 24 hours. Preferably, the antagonist-impermeable material prevents
    release of at least about 90% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
     gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. More preferably, the
30   antagonist-impermeable material prevents release of at least about 95% of the antagonist
     from the sequestering subunit. Most preferably, the antagonist-impermeable material
                                                   15

     WO 2007/149438                                                           PCT/US2007/014282
   prevents release of at least about 99% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in
   the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. The antagonist
   impermeable material prevents or substantially prevents the release of the antagonist in
   the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours, and desirably, at.
 5 least about 48 hours. More desirably, the antagonist-impermeable material prevents or
   substantially prevents the release of the adversive agent from the sequestering subunit for
   a time period of at least about 72 hours.
            Preferably, the first antagonist-impermeable material comprises a hydrophobic.
   material, such that the antagonist is not released or substantially not- released during its
10 transit through the gastrointestinal tract when administered orally as intended, Without
   having been tampered with. Suitable hydrophobic materials for use in the invention are
   described herein and set forth below. The hydrophobic material is preferably a
   pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic material.
            It is also preferred that the first antagonist-impermeable material comprises a
15 polymer insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract. One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates
   that a polymer that is insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract will prevent the release of the
    antagonist upon ingestion of the sequestering subunit. The polymer may be a cellulose or
    an acrylic polymer. Desirably, the cellulose is selected from the group consisting of
    ethylcellulose, cellulose acetate, cellulose propionate, cellulose acetate propionate,
20  cellulose acetate    butyrate, cellulose    acetate phthalate, cellulose triacetate,       and
    combinations thereof. Ethylcellulose includes, for example, one that has an ethoxy
    content of about 44 to about 55%. Ethylcellulose can be used in the form of an aqueous
    dispersion, an alcoholic solution, or a solution in other suitable solvents. The cellulose
    can have a degree of substitution (D.S.) on the anhydroglucose unit, from greater than
25  zero and up to 3 inclusive.-By "degree of substitution" is meant the average number of
    hydroxyl groups on the anhydroglucose unit of the cellulose polymer that are replaced by
    a substituting group. Representative materials include a polymer selected from the group
    consisting of .cellulose acylate, cellulose diacylate, cellulose triacylate, cellulose acetate,
    cellulose diacetate, cellulose triacetate, monocellulose alkanylate, dicellulose -alkanylate,
30 tricellulose alkanylate, monocellulose alkenylates, dicellulose alkenylates, tric.ellulose
    alkenylates, monocellulose aroylates, dicellulose aroylates, and tricellulose aroylates.
                                                  16

      WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
             More specific celluloses include cellulose propionate. having a D.S. of 1.8 and a
    propyl content of 39.2 to 45 and a hydroxy content of 2.8 to 5.4%; cellulose acetate
    butyrate having a D.S. of 1.8, an acetyl content of 13 to 15% and a butyryl content of 34
    to 39%; cellulose acetate butyrate having an acetyl content of 2 to 29%, a butyryl content
 5  of 17 to 53% and a hydroxy content of 0.5 to 4.7%; cellulose triacylate having a D.S. of
    2.9 to 3, such as cellulose triacetate, cellulose trivalerate, cellulose trilaurate, cellulose
    tripatmitate, cellulose trisuccinate, and cellulose trioctanoate; cellulose diacylates having
    a D.S. of 2.2 to 2.6, such as cellulose -disuccinate, cellulose dipalmitate, cellulose
    dioctanoate, cellulose dipentanoatie, and coesters of cellulose, such as-cellulose acetate
10  butyrate, cellulose acetate octanoate butyrate, and cellulose acetate propionate.
    Additional cellulose polymers that may be used to prepare the sequestering subunit
    include acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate ethylcarbarnate,
    cellulose acetate methycarbamate, and cellulose acetate dimethylaminocellulose acetate.
             The acrylic polymer preferably is selected from the group consisting of
15  methacrylic    polymers,     acrylic  acid and methacrylic       acid   copolymers, methyl
    methacrylate     copolymers,      ethoxyethyl   methacrylates,    cyanoethyl    methacrylate,
    poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid alkylamide copolymer,
    poly(methyl methacrylate), polymethacrylate, poly(methyl methacrylate) copolymer,
    polyacrylamide, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, poly(methacrylic acid anhydride),
20-  glycidyl methacrylate copolymers, and combinations thereof. An acrylic polymer useful
     for preparation of a sequestering subunit of the invention includes acrylic resins
     comprising copolymers synthesized from acrylic and methacrylic acid esters (e.g., the
     copolymer of acrylic acid lower alkyl ester and methacrylic acid lower alkyl -ester)
     containing about 0.02 to about 0.03 mole of a tri (lower alkyl) ammonium group per mole
25   of the acrylic and methacrylic monomer used. An example of a suitable acrylic resin is
     ammonio methacrylate copolymer NF21, a polymer manufactured by Rohm Pharma
     GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany, and sold under the Eudragit* trademark. Eudragit* is a
     water-insoluble copolymer of ethyl acrylate (EA), methyl methacrylate (MM) and
     trimethylanmoniumethyl methacrylate chloride (TAM) in which the molar ratio of TAM
30   to the remaining components (EA and MM) is 1:40. Acrylic resins, such as Eudragit@,
     can be used in the form of an aqueous dispersion or as a solution in suitable solvents.
                                                   17

     WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
   Preferred acrylic polymers include copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters with
   a low content in quaternary ammonium groups such as Eudragit* RL PO (Type A) and
   Eudragit* RS PO (Type B; as used herein, "Eudragit* RS") (as described the
   monographs      Ammonio Methacrylate        Copolymer Type A Ph. Eur.,             Ammonio
 5 Methacrylate Copolymer Type B Ph. Eur., Ammonio Methacrylate Copolymer, Type A
   and B USP/NF, and Aininoalkylmethacrylate Copolymer RS JPE).
           In another preferred embodiment, the antagonist-impermeable material is selected
   from the group consisting of polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, a co-polymer of polylactic
   acid and polygly6olic acid, and combinations thereof. In certain other enibodiments, the
10 hydrophobic material includes a biodegradable -polymer comprising a poly(lactic/glycolic
   acid). ("PLGA"), a polylactide, a polyglycolide, a polyanhydride, a polyorthoester,
   polycaprolactones,      polyphosphazenes,    polysaccharides,     proteinaceous    polymers,
   polyesters,     polydioxanone,      polygluconate,    polylactic-acid-polyethylene     oxide
   copolymers, poly(hydroxybutyrate), polyphosphoester or combinations thereof.
15 Preferably, the biodegradable polymer comprises a poly(lactic/glycolic              acid), a
   copolymer of lactic and glycolic acid, having a molecular weight of about 2,000 to about
   500,000 daltons. The ratio of lactic acid to glycolic acid is preferably from about 100:1 to
    about 25:75, with the ratio of lactic acid to glycolic acid of about 65:35 being more
   preferred.
20          Poly(lactic/glycolic acid) can be prepared by the procedures set forth in U.S. Pat.
   No. 4,293,539 (Ludwig et al.), which is incorporated herein by reference. In brief,
    Ludwig prepares the copolymer by condensation of lactic acid and glycolic acid in the
    presence of a readily removable polymerization catalyst (e.g., a strong ion-exchange resin
    such as Dowex HCR-W2-H). The amount of catalyst is not critical to the polymerization,
25  but typically is from about 0.01 to about 20 parts by weight relative to the total weight of
    combined lactic acid and glycolic acid. The polymerization reaction can be conducted
    without solvents at a temperature from about 1000 C. to about 2500 C. for about 48 to
    about 96 hours, preferably under a reduced pressure to facilitate removal of water and by
    products. Poly(lactic/glycolic acid) is then recovered by filtering the molten reaction
30  mixture in an organic solvent, such as dichloromethane or acetone, and then filtering to
    remove the catalyst.
                                                 18

     WO 2007/149438                                                           PCT/US2007/014282
           Suitable plasticizers for use in the sequestering -subunit include, for example,
   acetyl triethyl citrate, acetyl tributyl citrate, triethyl citrate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl
   phthalate (DBP), acetyltri-N-butyl citrate (ATBC), or dibutyl sebacate, which can be
   admixed With the polymer. Other additives such as coloring agents may also be used in
 5 making the present inventive sequestering subunit.
           In certain embodiments, additives may be included in the compositions the
   improve the sequestering characteristics of the sequestering subunit. As described below,
   the ratio of additives or components with respect to other additives or components may
   be modified to enhance or delay iniprov 'sequestration of the agent contained within the
10 subunit. Various amounts of a functional additive (i.e., a charge-neutraliziig additive)
   may be included to vary the release of an antagonist, particularly where a water-soluble
   core (i.e., a sugar sphere) is utilized.    For instance, it has been determined that the
   inclusion of a low amount of charge-neutralizing additive relative to sequestering
   polymer on a weight-by-weight basis may cause decreased release of the antagonist.
15         In certain embodiments, a surfactant may serve as a charge-neutralizing additive.
   Such neutralization may in certain embodiments reduce the swelling of the sequestering
   polymer by hydration of positively charged groups contained therein. Surfactants (ionic
   or non-ionic) may also be used in preparing the sequestering subunit. It-is preferred that
   the surfactant be ionic.      Suitable exemplary agents include, for example, alkylaryl
20 sulphonates, alcohol sulphates, sulphosuccinates, sulphosuccinamates, sarcosinates or
   taurates and others. Additional examples include but are not limited to ethoxylated castor
   oil, benzalkonium chloride, polyglycolyzed glycerides, acetylated monoglycerides,.
   sorbitan fatty acid esters, poloxamers, polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene
   derivatives, monoglycerides        or ethoxylated derivatives       thereof, diglycerides or
25 polyoxyethylene derivatives thereof, sodium docusate, sodium lauryl sulfate, dioctyl
   sodium sulphosuccinatej sodium lauryl sarcosinate and sodium methyl cocoyl taurate,
   magnesium lauryl sulfate, triethanolamine, cetrimide, sucrose laurate and other sucrose
   esters, glucose (dextrose) esters, simethicone, ocoxynol, dioctyl sodiumsulfosuceinate,
   polyglycolyzed         glycerides,      sodiumdodecylbenzene            sulfonate,     dialkyl
30 sodiumsulfosuccinate, fatty alcohols such as lauryl, cetyl, and steryl,glycerylesters, cholic
   acid or derivatives thereof, lecithins, and phospholipids.         These agents are typically
                                                  19

      WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
    characterized as ionic (i.e., anionic or cationic) or nonionic. In certain embodiments
    described herein, an anionic surfactant such as sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is preferably
    used (U.S. Pat. No. 5,725,883; U.S. Pat. No. 7,201,920; EP 502642A1; Shokri, et al.
    Pharm. Sci. 2003. The effect of sodium lauryl sulphate on the release of diazepam from
 5- solid dispersions prepared by cogrinding technique. Wells, et al. Effect of Anionic
    Surfactants on the Release of ChlorpheniramineMaleate From an Inert, Heterogeneous
    Matrix. Drug Development and Industrial Pharmacy 18(2) (1992): 175-186. Rao, et al.
    "Effect of Sodium Lauryl Sulfate on the Release of Rifampicin from Guar Gum Matrix."
    Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Science (2000): 404406; Knop, et al. Influen'e of
10  surfactants'of different charge and concentration on drug release from pellets coated
    with an aqueous dispersion of quaternaryacrylic polymers. STP Pharma Sciences, Vol.
    7, No. 6, (1997) 507-512). Other suitable agents are known in the art.
            As shown herein, SLS is particularly useful in combination with Eudragit RS
    when the sequestering subunit is built upon a sugar sphere substrate. The inclusion of
15   SLS at less than approximately 6.3% on a weight-to-weight basis relative to the
    sequestering polymer (i.e., Eudragit RS) may provide a charge neutralizing function
    (theoretically 26% and 41% neutralization, respectfully), and thereby significantly slow
    the release of the active agent encapsulated thereby (i.e., the antagonist naltrexone).
    Inclusion of more than approximately 6.3% SLS relative to the sequestering polymer
20  appears to increase release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit. With respect
    to SLS used in conjunction with Eudragit* RS, it is preferred that the SLS is present at
     approximately 1%, 2%, 3%, 4% or 5%, and typically less than 6% on a w/w basis relative
    to the sequestering polymer (i.e., Eudragit* RS). In preferred embodiments, SLS may be
    present at approximately 1.6% or approximately 3.3% relative to the sequestering
25  polymer. As discussed above, many agents (i.e., surfactants) may substitute for SLS in
    the compositions disclosed herein.
            Additionally useful agents include those that may physically block migration of
    the antagonist from the subunit and / or enhance the hydrophobicity of the barrier. One
     exemplary agent is talc, which is' commonly used in pharmaceutical compositions
30   (Pawar et al. Agglomeration of Ibuprofen With Talc by Novel Crystallo-Co
    Agglomeration Technique. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2004; 5(4): article 55). As shown in
                                                20

      WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   the Examples, talc is especially useful where the sequestering subunit is built upon a
   sugar sphere core. Any form of talc may be used, so long as it does not detrimentally
   affect the function of the composition. Most talc results from the alteration of dolomite
   (CaMg(C0 3)2 or magnesite (MgO) in the presence of excess dissolved silica (SiO 2) or by
 5 altering serpentine or quartzite.      Talc may be include minerals such as tremolite
    (CaMg 3(SiO 3)4), serpentine (3MgO-2SiO 2 2H 20), anthophyllite (Mg7(OH) 2 -(Si401)2),
    magnesite, mica, chlorite, dolomite, the calcite form of calcium carbonate (CaCO3 ), iron
    oxide, carbon, quartz, and / or manganese oxide. The presence of such impurities may be
    acceptable in the compositions described herein provided the function 'of. the talc is
10 maintained' It is preferred that that talc'be USP grade. As mentioned above, the function
    of talc as described herein is to enhance the hydrophobicity and therefore the.
    functionality of the sequestering polymer.' Many substitutes for talc may be utilized in
    the compositions described herein as may be determined by one of skill in the art.
             It has been determined that the ratio of talc to sequestering polymer may make a
15  dramatic difference in the functionality of the compositions described herein.           For
    instance, the Examples described below demonstrate that the talc to sequestering polymer
    ratio (w/w) is important with respect to compositions designed to prevent the release of
    naltrexone therefrom. It is shown therein that inclusion of an approximately equivalent
    amount (on a weight-by-weight basis) of talc and Eudragit* RS results in a very low
20  naltrexone release profile.. In contrast, significantly lower or higher both a lower (69%
    w/w) and a higher (151% w/w) talc:Eudragit* RS ratios result in increased release of
    naltrexone release. Thus, where talc and Eudragit* RS are utilized, it is preferred that
    talc is present at approximately 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 105%, 110%, 115%,
    120% or 125% w/w relative to Eudragit* RS.          As described above, the most beneficial
25  ratio for other additives or components will vary and may be determined using standard
    experimental procedures.
             In certain embodiments, such as where a water-soluble core is utilized, it is useful
    to include agents that may affect the osmotic pressure of the composition (i.e., an osmotic
    pressure regulating agent) (see, in general, WO 2005/046561 A2 and WO 2005/046649
30  A2 relating to Eudramode*). This agent is preferably applied to the Eudragit RS / talc
    layer described above.      In a pharmaceutical unit comprising a sequestering subunit
                                                  21

       WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
    overlayed by an active agent (i.e., a controlled-release agonist preparation), the osmotic'
    pressure regulating agent is preferably positioned immediately beneath the active agent
     layer.     Suitable. osmotic pressure regulating agents may include,- for instance,
     hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) or chloride ions (i.e., from NaCl), or a
 5   combination of HPMC and chloride ions (i.e., from NaCI). Other ions that may be useful
    include bromide or iodide. The combination of sodium chloride and HPMC may be
    prepared in water or in a mixture of ethanol and water,.for instance. HPMC is.commonly
    utilized in pharmaceutical compositions (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,226,620 and
     7,229,982). In certain embodiments, HPMC may have a molecular weight ranging from
10   about 10,000 to -about 1;500,000; and typically from about 5000 to about 10,000 (low
     molecular weight HPMC). The specific gravity of HPMC is typically from about 1.19 to
     about, 1.31, with an average specific gravity of about 1.26 and a viscosity of about 3600
     to 5600. HPMC may be a water-soluble synthetic polymer. Examples of suitable,
     commercially available hydroxypropyl methylcellulose polymers include Methocel K100
15   LV and Methocel K4M (Dow). Other HPMC additives are known in the art and may be
     suitable in preparing the compositions described herein. As shown in the Examples, the
     inclusion of NaCl (with HPMC) was found to have positively affect sequestration of
     naltrexone by Eudragit* RS. In certain embodiments, it is preferred that the charge
     neutralizing additive (i.e., NaCl) is included at less than approximately 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
20   8,.9, or 10% on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to the sequestering polymer. In
     other preferred embodiments, the charge-neutralizing additive is present at approximately
     4% on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to the sequestering polymer.
              Thus, in one embodiment, a sequestering subunit built upon a sugar sphere
     substrate is provided comprising a sequestering polymer (i.e.,' Eudragit* RS) in
25   combination with several optimizing agents, including sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) as a
     charge-neutralizing agent to reduce swelling of the film by hydration of the positively
   . charged groups on the polymer; talc to create a solid impermeable obstacle to naltrexone
     transport through the film and as a hydrophobicity-enhacing agent; and a chloride ion
    '(i.e., as NaCI) as an osmotic pressure reducing agent. The ratio of each of the additional
30   ingredients relative to the sequestering polymer was surprisingly found to be important to
     the function of the sequestering subunit.          For instance, the Examples provide a
                                                   22

       WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
     sequestering subunit including a sequestering polymer and the optimizing agents SLS at
     less than 6%, preferably 1-4%, and even more preferably 1.6% or 3.3% on a w/w basis
     relative' to Eudragit RS; talc in an amount approximately equal to Eudragit* RS (on a
     w/w basis); and, NaCi present at approximately 4% on a w/w basis relative to Eudragit*
 5   RS.
              Methods of making any of the sequestering subunits of the invention are known in
     the art. See, for example, Remington: The Science and Practiceof Pharmacy,Alfonso R.
     Genaro (ed), 20th edition, and Example 2 set forth below. The sequestering subunits can
     be prepared by any suitable method to provide, for 'example, beads, pellets, granules,
10    spheroids, and the like. Spheroids or beads, doated with an active ingredient can be
     prepared, for example, by dissolving the active ingredient in water and then spraying the
     solution onto a substrate, for example, nu pariel 18/20 beads, using a Wurster insert.
      Optionally, additional ingredients are also added prior to coating the beads in order to
     assist the active ingredient in binding to the substrates, and/or to color the solution; etc.
15 - The resulting substrate-active material optionally can be overcoated with a barrier
     material to separate the therapeutically active agent from the next coat of material, e.g.,
     release-retarding or sequestering material. Preferably, the barrier material is a material
     comprising hydroxypropyl methyleellulose. However, any film-former. known in the art
     can be used. Preferably, the barrier material does not affect-the dissolution rate of the
20   final product.
              Pellets comprising an active ingredient can be prepared, for example, by a melt
     pelletization technique. Typical of such techniques is when the active ingredient in finely
     divided form is combined with a binder (also in particulate form) and other optional inert
     ingredients, and thereafter the mixture is pelletized, e.g., by mechanically working the
25   mixture in a high shear mixer to form the pellets (e.g., pellets, granules, spheres, beads;
     etc., collectively referred to herein as "pellets"). Thereafter, the pellets can be sieved in
     order to.obtain pellets of the requisite size. The binder material is preferably in particulate
     form and has a melting point above about 40* C. Suitable binder substances include, for
     example, hydrogenated castor.oil, hydrogenated vegetable oil, other hydrogenated fats,
30   fatty alcohols, fatty acid esters, fatty acid glycerides, and the like.
                                                     23

      WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
             The diameter of the extruder aperture or exit port also can be adjusted to vary the
    thickness of the extruded strands. Furthermore, the exit part of the extruder need not be
    round; it can be oblong, rectangular; etc. The exiting strands can be reduced to particles
    using a hot wire cutter, guillotine; etc.
 5         .The melt-extruded multiparticulate system can be, for example, in the form of
    granules, spheroids, pellets, or the like, depending upon fhe extruder exit orifice. The
    terms "melt-extruded multiparticulate(s)" and "melt-extruded multiparticulate systemss"
    and "melt-extruded particles" are used interchangeably herein and include a plurality of
     subunits, preferably within a range -. f similar size and/or shape. -The melt-extruded
10  multiparticulates are preferably in a -range of from about 0.1 io about'12 mm in length
    and have a diameter of from about 0.1 to about 5 mm. In addition, the melt-extruded
    multiparticulates can be any geometrical shape within this size range. Alternatively, the
   .extrudate can simply be cut into desired lengths and divided into unit doses of the
    therapeutically active agent without the need of a spheronization step.
15           The substrate'also can be prepared via a granulation technique. Generally, melt
    granulation techniques involve melting a normally solid hydrophobic material, e.g., a
    wax, and incorporating an active ingredient therein. To obtain a sustained-release dosage
    form, it can be necessary to incorporate an additional hydrophobic material.
             A coating composition can be applied onto a substrate by spraying it onto the
20   substrate using any suitable spray equipment. For example, a Wurster fluidized-bed
     system can be used in which an air flow from underneath, fluidizes the coated material
     and effects drying, while the insoluble polymer coating is sprayed on. The thickness of
    the coating will depend on the characteristics of the particular coating composition, and
    can be determined by using routine experimentation.
25           Any manner of preparing a subunit can be employed. By way of example, a
    subunit in the form of a pellet or the like can be prepared by co-extruding a material
     comprising the opioid agonist and a material comprising the opioid antagonist and/or
    antagonist in sequestered form. Optionally, the opioid agonist composition can cover,
     e.g., overcoat, the material comprising the antagonist and/or antagonist in sequestered
30  form. A bead, for example, can be prepared by coating a substrate comprising an opioid
                                                 24.

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    antagonist and/or an antagonist in sequestered form with a solution comprising an opioid
    agonist.
             The sequestering subunits of the invention are particularly well-suited for use in
    compositions comprising the sequestering subunit and a therapeutic agent in releasable
 5  form. In this regard, the invention also provides a composition comprising any of the
    sequestering subunits of the invention and a therapeutic agent in releasable form.. By
    "releasable form" is meant to include immediate release, intermediate release, and
    sustained-release forms. The therapeutic agent can be formulated to provide immediate
    release of the therapeutic, agent. In preferred embodiments, the' composition provides
10  sustained-release of the therapeutic agent.
             The therapeutic agent applied upon the sequestering subunit may be any
    medicament. The therapeutic agent of the present inventive compositions can be any
    medicinal agent used for the treatment of a condition or disease, a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt thereof, or an analogue of either of the foregoing. The therapeutic agent
15  can be, for example, an analgesic (e.g., an opioid agonist, aspirin, acetaminophen, non
    steroidal anti-inflammatory      drugs .("NSAIDS"), N-methyl-D-aspartate        ("NMDA")
    receptor antagonists, cycooxygenase-Il inhibitors ("COX-II inhibitors"), and glycine
    receptor antagonists), an antibacterial agent, an anti-viral agent, an anti-microbial agent,
    anti-infective agent, a chemotherapeutic, an immunosuppressant agent, an antitussive, an
20  expectorant, a decongestant, an antihistamine drugs, a decongestant, antihistamine drugs,
    and the like. Preferably, the therapeutic agent is one that is addictive (physically and/or
    psychologically) upon repeated use and typically leads to abuse of the therapeutic agent.
    In this regard, the therapeutic agent can be any opioid agonist as discussed herein.
             The.therapeutic agent can be an opioid agonist. By "opioid" is meant to include a
25' drug, hormone, or other chemical or biological substance, natural or, synthetic, having a
    sedative, narcotic,. or otherwise similar effect(s) to those containing opium or its natural
    or synthetic derivatives. By "opioid agonist," sometimes used herein interchangeably
    with terms "opioid" and "opioid analgesic," is meant to include one or more opioid
    agonists, either alone or in combination, and is further meant to include the base of the
30  opioid, mixed or combined agonist-antagonists, partial agonists, pharmaceutically
                                                  25

     WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
    acceptable salts thereof, stereoisomers thereof, ethers thereof, esters thereof, and
    combinations thereof.
            Opioid agonists include, for example, alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine,
    anileridine, benzylmorphine, bezitramide, buprenorphine, butorphanol, clonitazene,
 5  codeine,    cyclazocine,   desomorphine,     dextromoramide,       dezocine,    diampromide,
    dihydrocodeine,    dihydroetorphine,   dihydromorphine,      dimenoxadol,     dimdpheptanol,
    dimethylthiambutene,     dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone,       eptazocine, ethoheptazine,
    ethylmethylthiambutene,     ethylmorphine,    etonitazene,    etorphine,   fentanyl,    heroin,
    hydrocodone,     hydromorphone,      hydroxypethidine,      isomethadone,      kefobemidone,
10  levallorphan, levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofentanil, meperidine, mektazinol,
    metazocine,    methadone,    metopon,    morphine,     myrophine,     nalbuphine,    narceine,
    nicomorphine, norlevorphanol, normethadone, nalorphine, normorphine, norpipanone,
    opium,     oxycodone,     oxymorphone,      papaveretum,       pentazocine,     phenadoxone,
    phenazocine, phenomorphan, phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide, propheptazine,
15  promedol,    properidine,   propiram,   propoxyphene,      sufentanil,   tramadol,     tilidine,
    derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
    combinations thereof. Preferably, the opioid agonist is selected from the group consisting
    of     hydrocodone,      hydromorphone,      ~ oxycodone,       dihydrocodeine,       codeine,
    dihydromorphine,     morphine,    buprenorphine,     derivatives    or complexes       thereof,
20  pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and combinations thereof. Most preferably, the
    opioid agonist is morphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone or hydrocodone. In a preferred
    embodiment, the opioid agonist comprises oxycodone or hydrocodone and is present in
    the dosage form in an amount of about 15 to about 45 mg, and the opioid antagonist
    comprises naltrexone and is present in the dosage form in an amount of about 0.5 to
25  about 5 mg.
            Equianalgesic doses of these opioids, in comparison to a 15 mg dose of
   -hydrocodone, are set forth in Table 1 below:
                                              Table I
30                                Equianalgesic Doses of Opioids
                                   Opioid                  Calculated Dose (mg)
                                                 26

    WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
                  Oxycodone                             13.5
                  Codeine                               90.0
                  Hydrocodone                           15.0
        .         Hydromorphone                         3.375
                  Levorphanol                           1.8
                  Meperidine                            135.0
                  Methadone                             9.0
                  Morphine                              27.0
           Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple
   nervous system and gastrointestinal actions. Chemically, hydrocodone is 4,5-epoxy-3
   methoxy-l'7-methylmorphinan-6-one, and is also known as dihydrocodeinone. Like other
 5 opioids, hydrocodone can be habit-forming and can produce drug dependence of the
   morphine type. Like other opium derivatives, excess doses of hydrocodone will depress
   respiration.
           Oral hydrocodone is also available in Europe (e.g., Belgium, Germany, Greece,
   Italy, Luxembourg, Norway and Switzerland) as an antitussive agent. A parenteral
10 formulation is also available in Germany as an antitussive agent. For use as an analgesic,
   hydrocodone bitartrate is commonly available in the United. States only as a fixed
   combination with non-opiate drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, acetaminophen, aspirin; etc.) for
   relief of moderate to moderately severe pain.
           A common dosage form of hydrocodone is in combination with acetaminophen
15 and is commercially available, for example, as Lortab@ in the United States from UCB
   Pharma, Inc. (Brussels, Belgium), as 2.5/500 mg, 51500 mg, 7.5/500 mg and 10/500 mg
   hydrocodone/acetaminophen tablets. Tablets are also available in the ratio of 7.5 mg
   hydrocodone bitartrate and 650 mg acetaminophen and a 7.5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate
   and 750 mg acetaminophen. Hydrocodone, in combination with aspirin, is given in an
20 oral dosage form to adults generally in 1-2 tablets every 4-6 hours as needed to alleviate
   pain. The tablet form is 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 224 mg aspirin with 32 mg
   caffeine; or 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 500 mg aspirin. Another formulation
                                               27

      WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
    comprises hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen. Vicoprofen@, commercially available in
    the U.S. from Knoll Laboratories (Mount Olive, N.J.), is a tablet containing 7.5 mg
    hydrocodone bitartrate and 200 mg ibuprofen. The invention is contemplated to
    encompass all such formulations, with the- inclusion of the opioid antagonist and/or
 5  antagonist in sequestered form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
  .         Oxycodone,     chemically     known - as     4,5-epoxy-14-hydroxy-3-methoxy-17
    methylmorphinan-6-one, is an opioid agonist whose principal therapeutic. action is
    analgesia. Other therapeutic effects of oxycodone include anxiolysis, euphoria and
    feelings of relaxation. The precise mechanism of its analgesic action is not known, but
10  specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opi6id-like activity have
    been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and play a role in the analgesic
    effects of this drug. Oxycodone is commercially available in the United States, e.g., as
    Oxycotin@ from Purdue Pharma L.P. (Stamford, Conn.), as controlled-release tablets for
    oral administration containing 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg or 80 mg oxycodone hydrochloride,
15  and as OxyIRTM, also from Purdue Pharma L.P., -as immediate-release capsules
    containing 5 mg oxycodone hydrochloride. The invention is contemplated to encompass
    all such formulations, with the inclusion of an opioid antagonist and/or antagonist in
    sequestered form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
            Oral hydromorphone is commercially available -in the United States, e.g., as.
20  Dilaudid@ from Abbott Laboratories (Chicago, Ill.). Oral morphine is commercially
    available in the United States, e.g., as Kadian@ from Faulding Laboratories (Piscataway,
    N.J.).
            Exemplary NSAIDS include ibuprofen, diclofenac, naproxen, benoxaprofen,
    flurbiprofen, fenoprofen, flubufen, ketoprofen, indoprofen, piroprofen, carprofen,
25  oxaprozin, pramoprofen, muroprofen, trioxaprofen, suprofen, aminoprofen, tiaprofenic
    acid, fluprofen, bucloxic acid, indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, zomepirac, tiopinac,
    zidometacin, acemetacin, fentiazac, clidanac, oxpinac, mefenamic acid, meclofenamic
    acid, flufenamic acid, niflumic acid, tolfenamic acid, diflurisal, flufenisal, piroxicam,
    sudoxicam or isoxicam, and the like. Useful dosages of these drugs are well-known.
30          Exemplary    NMDA       receptor medicaments      include  morphinans,    such as
    dexotromethorphan     or dextrophan, ketamine, d-methadone,         and pharmaceutically
                                                  28

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   acceptable salts 'thereof, and encompass drugs that block a major intracellular
   consequence of NMDA-receptor activation, e.g., a ganglioside, such as (6-aminothexyl)
   5-chloro-l-naphthalenesulfonamide. These drugs are stated to inhibit the development of
   tolerance to and/or dependence on addictive drugs, e.g., narcotic analgesics, such as
 5 morphine, codeine; etc., in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,321,012.and 5,556,838 (both'to Mayer et al.),
   both of which are incorporated herein by reference, and.to treat chronic pain in U.S. Pat.
   No. 5,502,058 (Mayer et al.), incorporated herein by reference. The NMDA agonist can
   be included alone or in combination with a local anesthetic, such as lidocaine, as
   described in these patents-by Mayeri et al.
10          COX-2 inhibitors have been reported in the art, and many chemical compounds
   are known to produce inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2. COX-2 inhibitors are described,
   for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,616,601; 5,604,260; 5,593,994; 5,550,142; 5,536,752;
   5,521,213; 5,475,995; 5,639,780; 5,604,253; 5,552,422; 5,510,368; 5,436,265; 5,409,944
   and 5,130,311, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Certain preferred COX
15 2 inhibitors     include   celecoxib    (SC-58635),   DUP-697,     flosulide  (CGP-28238),
   meloxicam, 6-methoxy-2-naphthylacetic acid (6-NMA), MK-966 (also known as Vioxx),
   nabumetone (prodrug for 6-MNA), nimesulide, NS-398, SC-5766,. SC-58215, T-614, or
   combinations thereof. Dosage levels of COX-2 inhibitor on the order of from about 0.005
   mg to about 140 mg per kilogram of body weight per day have been shown to be
20 therapeutically effective in combination with an opioid analgesic. Alternatively, about
    0.25 mg to about 7. g per patient per day of a COX-2 inhibitor can be administered in
    combination with an opioid analgesic.
            The treatment of chronic pain via the use of glycine receptor antagonists and the
    identification of such drugs is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,514,680 (Weber et al.), which
25 is incorporated herein by reference.
            In embodiments in which the opioid agonist comprises hydrocodone, the
    sustained-release oral dosage forms can include analgesic doses from about 8 mg to about
    50 mg of hydrocodone per dosage unit. In sustained-release oral dosage forms where
    hydromorphone is the therapeutically active opioid, it is included in an amount from
30  about 2 mg to about 64 mg hydromorphone hydrochloride. In another embodiment, the
    opioid agonist comprises morphine, and the sustained-release oral dosage forms of the
                                                 29

     WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   invention include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg morphine, by weight. In yet
   another embodiment, the opioid agonist comprises oxycodone and the sustained-release
   oral dosage forms include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg oxycodone. In certain
   preferred embodiments,. the sustained-release oral dosage forms include from about 20
 5 mg to about 30 ing oxycodone. Controlled release oxycodone formulations are known ii
   the art. The following documents describe various controlled-release oxycodone
   formulations suitable for use in the invention described herein, and processes for their
   manufacture: U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,266,331; 5,549,912; 5,508,042; and 5,656,295, which are
   incorporated herein by reference. The opioid -agonist can comprise Itrarnadol and the
10 sustained-release oral dosage-fornis can include from about 25 mg to 800 mg tramadol
   per dosage unit.
            The therapeutic agent in sustained-release form is preferably a particle of
   therapeutic agent that is combined with a release-retarding or sequestering material. The
   release-retarding or sequestering material. is preferably a material that permits release of
15 the therapeutic agent at a sustained rate in an aqueous medium. The release-retarding or
    sequestering material can be selectively chosen so as to achieve, in combination with the
    other stated properties, a desired in vitro release rate.
            In a preferred embodiment, the oral dosage form of the invention can be
   formulated to provide for an increased duration of therapeutic action allowing once-daily
20 dosing. In general, a release-retarding or sequestering material is used to provide the
   increased duration of therapeutic action. Preferably, the once-daily dosing-is provided by
   the dosage forms and methods described in U.S. Patent Application No. (unknown) to
   Boehm, entitled "Sustained-Release Opioid Formulations and Method of Use," filed on
   Sep. 22, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.
25          Preferred release-retarding or sequestering materials include acrylic polymers,
   alkylcelluloses, shellac, zein, hydrogenated vegetable oil, hydrogenated castor oil, and
   combinations thereof. In certain preferred embodiments, the release-retarding or
   sequestering material is a pharmaceutically acceptable acrylic polymer, including acrylic
   acid and methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate copolymers, ethoxyethyl
30 methacrylates,     cynaoethyl     methacrylate,      aminoalkyl methacrylate    copolymer,
   poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid alkylamide copolymer,
                                                   30

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   poly(methyl. methacrylate), poly(methacrylic acid anhydride), methyl methacrylate,
   polymethacrylate, poly(methyl methacrylate) copolymer, polyacrylamide, aminoalkyl
   methacrylate copolymer, and glycidyl methacrylate copolymers. In certain preferred
   embodiments, the acrylic polymer comprises one or more ammonio methacrylate
 5 copolymers. Ammonio methacrylate copolymers are well-known in the art, and are
   described in NF21, the     2 1S edition of the National Formulary, published by the United
   States Pharmacopeial Convention Inc. (Rockville, Md.), as fully polymerized copolymers
   of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters with a low content of quaternary ammonium
   groups: In other preferred embodiments, the release-retarding or sequesteringmaterial is
10 an'alkyl cellulosic material, such as ethylcellulose. Those skilled in the art will appreciate
   that other cellulosic polymers, including other alkyl cellulosic polymers, can be
   substituted for part or all of the ethylcellulose.
       .  *Release-modifying agents, which affect the release properties of the release
   retarding or sequestering material, also can be used. In a preferred embodiment, the
15 release-modifying agent functions as a pore-former. The pore-former can be organic or
   inorganic, and include materials that can be dissolved, extracted or leached from the
   coating in the environment of use. The pore-former' can comprise one or more
   hydrophilic polymers, such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. In certain preferred
   embodiments,         the        release-modifying        agent       is   selected       from
20 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, lactose, metal stearates, and combinations thereof.
           The release-retarding or sequestering material can also include an erosion
   promoting agent, such as starch and gums; a release-modifying agent useful for making
   microporous lamina in the environment of use, such as polycarbonates comprised of
   linear polyesters of carbonic acid in which carbonate groups reoccur in the polymer
25 chain; and/or a semi-permeable polymer.
           The release-retarding or sequestering material can also include an exit means
   comprising at least one passageway, orifice, or the like. The passageway can be formed
   by such methods as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,845,770; 3,916,889; 4,063,064;
   and 4,088,864, which are incorporated herein by reference. The passageway can have any
30 shape, such as round, triangular, square, elliptical, irregular; etc.
                                                  31

      WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
            In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent in sustained-release form can
   include a plurality of substrates comprising the active ingredient, which substrates are.
   coated with a sustained-release coating comprising a release-retarding or sequestering
   material.
 5          The sustained-release preparations of the .invention can be made in conjunction
   with any multiparticulate system, such as beads, ion-exchange resin beads, spheroids,
   microspheres, seeds, pellets, granules, and other multiparticulate systems in order to
   obtain a desired sustained-release of the therapeutic agent. The multiparticulate system
   can be presented in a capsule or in any other'suitable unit dosage form.
10          In certain preferred embodiments, more than one multiparticulate system can be
    used, each exhibiting different characteristics, such as pH dependence of release, time for
    release in various media (e.g., acid, base, simulated intestinal fluid), release in vivo, size
    and composition.
            To obtain a sustained-release of the therapeutic agent in a manner sufficient to
15  provide a therapeutic effect for the sustained durations, the therapeutic agent can be
    coated with an amount of release-retarding or sequestering material sufficient to obtain a
    weight gain level from about 2 to about 30%,. although the coat can be greater or lesser
    depending upon the physical properties of the particular therapeutic. agent utilized and the
    desired release rate, among other things. Moreover, there can be more than- one release
20  retarding or sequestering material used in the coat, as. well              .as various other
    pharmaceutical excipients.
             Solvents typically used for the release-retarding or sequestering material include
    pharmaceutically acceptable solvents, such as water, methanol, ethanol, methylene
    chloride and combinations thereof.
25           In certain embodiments of the invention, the release-retarding or sequestering
    material is in the form of a coating comprising an aqueous dispersion of a hydrophobic
    polymer. The inclusion of an effective amount of a plasticizer in the aqueous dispersion
     of hydrophobic polymer will further improve the physical properties of the film. For
     example, because ethylcellulose has a relatively high glass transition temperature and
30  does not form flexible films under normal coating conditions, it is necessary to plasticize
     the ethylcellulose before using the same as a coating material. Generally, the amount of
                                                  32

    WO 2007/149438                                                           PCT/US2007/014282
   plasticizer included in a coating solution is based on the concentration of the film-former,
   e.g., most often from about I to about 50 percent by weight of the film-former.
   Concentrations      of the   plasticizer,  however,     can    be  determined     by routine
   experimentation.
 5          Examples of plasticizers for ethylcellulose and other celluloses include dibutyl
   sebacate, diethyl phthalate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, and triacetin, although it is
   possible that other plasticizers (such as acetylated monoglycerides, phthaiate esters,
   castor oil; etc.) can be used. A plasticizer that is not leached into the aqueous phase such
   as DBS is preferred.
10         'Examples of plasticizers for the acrylic polymers include citric acid esters, such as
   triethyl citrate NF21, tributyl citrate, dibutyl phthalate (DBP), acetyltri-N-butyl citrate
   (ATBC), and possibly 1,2-propylene glycol, polyethylene glycols, propylene glycol,
   diethyl phthalate, castor oil, and triacetin, although it is possible that other plasticizers
   (such as acetylated monoglycerides, phthalate esters, castor oil; etc.) can be used.
15          The sustained-release profile of drug release in the formulations of the invention
   (either in vivo or in vitro) can be altered, for example,. by using more than one release
   retarding or sequestering material, varying the thickness of the release-retarding or
   sequestering material, changing the particular release-retarding or sequestering material
   used, altering the relative amounts of release-retarding or sequestering material, altering
20 the manner in which the plasticizer is added (e.g., when the sustained-release coating is
   derived from an aqueous dispersion of hydrophobic polymer), by varying the amount of
   plasticizer relative to retardant material, by the inclusion of additional ingredients or
   excipients, by altering the method of manufacture; etc.
            In certain other embodiments, the oral dosage form can utilize a multiparticulate
25 sustained-release matrix. In certain embodiments, the sustained-release matrix comprises
   a hydrophilic and/or hydrophobic polymer, such as gums, cellulose ethers, acrylic resins
   and protein-derived materials. Of these polymers, the cellulose ethers, specifically
   hydroxyalkylcelluloses and carboxyalkylcelluloses, are preferred. The oral dosage form
   can contain between about. 1% and about 80% (by weight) of at least one hydrophilic or
30 hydrophobic polymer.
                                                 33

    WO 2007/149438                                                            PCT/US2007/014282
           The hydrophobic material is preferably selected from the group consisting of
   alkylcellulose, acrylic and methacrylic acid polymers and copolymers, shellac, zein,
   hydrogenated castor oil, hydrogenated vegetable oil, or mixtures thereof. Preferably, the
   hydrophobic material is a pharmaceutically acceptable acrylic polymer, including acrylic
 5 acid and methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate
   copolymers,      ethoxyethyl     methacrylates,.     cyanoethyl   methacrylate,    aminoalkyl
   methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylicacid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid
   alkylamine copolymer, poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(methacrylic acid)(anhydride),
   polymethacrylate, polyacrylamide, poly(methacrylic acid anhydride),' and glycidyl
10 methacrylate copolymers. In other. embodiments, the hydrophobic' material pan also
   include hydrooxyalkylcelluloses such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and mixtures of
   the foregoing.
           Preferred hydrophobic       materials are water-insoluble        with more 'or less
   pronounced hydrophobic trends. Preferably, the hydrophobic material has a melting point
15 from about 300 C. to about 200* C., more preferably from about 450 C. to about 900 C.
   The hydrophobic material can include neutral or synthetic waxes, fatty alcohols (such as
   lauryl, myristyl, stearyl, cetyl or preferably cetostearyl alcohol), fatty acids, including
   fatty acid esters, fatty acid glycerides (mono-, di-, and tri-glycefides), hydrogenated fats,
   hydrocarbons, normal waxes, stearic acid, stearyl alcohol and hydrophobic and
20 hydrophilic materials having hydrocarbon backbones. Suitable waxes include beeswax,
   glycowax, castor wax, carnauba wax and wax-like substances, e.g., material normally
   solid at room temperature and having a melting point of from about 30* C. to about 1000
   C.
           Preferably, a combination of two or more hydrophobic materials are included in
25 the matrix formulations. If an additional hydrophobic material is included, it is preferably
   a natural or synthetic wax, a fatty acid, a fatty alcohol, or mixtures thereof. Examples
   include beeswax, carnauba wax, stearic acid and stearyl alcohol.
           In other embodiments, the sustained-release matrix comprises digestible, long
   chain (e.g., C8 -C50 , preferably C12 -C4 0), substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such
30 as fatty acids, fatty alcohols, glyceryl esters of fatty acids, mineral and vegetable oils and
   waxes. Hydrocarbons having a melting point of between about 250 C. and about 900 C.
                                                   34

      WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
    are preferred. Of these long-chain hydrocarbon materials, fatty (aliphatic) alcohols are
    preferred. The oral dosage form can contain up to about 60% (by weight) of at.least one
    digestible, long-chain hydrocarbon. Further, the sustained-release matrix can contain up
    to 60% (by weight) of at least one polyalkylene glycol.
 5     .    In a preferred embodiment, the matrix comprises at least one water-soluble
    hydroxyalkyl cellulose, at least one C12 -C3 6 , preferably C14 -C22 , aliphatic alcohol and,
    optionally, at least one polyalkylene glycol. The at least one hydroxyalkyl cellulose is
    preferably a hydroxy (C-C 6 ) alkyl          cellulose, such as hydroxypropylcellulose,
    hydroxypiopylmethylcellulose and,'preferably,' hydroxyethyl cellulose. The amount of
10  the at least one hydroxyalkyl cellulose in the oral dosage form, will be determined,
    amongst other things, by the precise rate of opioid release required. The amount of the at
    least one aliphatic alcohol in the present oral dosage form will be determined by the
    precise rate of opioid release required. However, it will also depend on whether the at
    least one polyalkylene glycol is absent from the oral dosage form.
15          In certain embodiments, a spheronizing agent, together with the active ingredient,
    can be spheronized to form spheroids. Microcrystalline cellulose and hydrous lactose
    impalpable are examples of such agents. Additionally (or alternatively), the spheroids can
    contain a water-insoluble polymer, preferably an acrylic polymer, an acrylic copolymer,
    such as a methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer, or ethyl cellulose. In such
20  embodiments, the sustained-release coating will generally include a water-insoluble
    material such as (a) a wax, either alone or in admixture with a fatty alcohol, or (b) shellac
    or zein.
            The sustained-release unit can be prepared by any suitable method. For example,
    a plasticized aqueous dispersion of the release-retarding or sequestering material can be
25  applied onto the subunit comprising the opioid agonist. A sufficient amount of the
    aqueous dispersion      of release-retarding     or sequestering    material to obtain      a
    predetermined sustained-release of the opioid agonist when the coated substrate is
   -exposed to aqueous solutions, e.g., gastric fluid, is preferably applied, taking into account
    the physical characteristics of the opioid agonist, the manner of incorporation of the
30  plasticizer; etc. Optionally, a further overcoat of a film-former, such. as Opadry
                                                  35

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   (Colorcon, West Point, Va.), can be applied after coating with the release-retarding or
   sequestering material.
           The subunit can be cured in order to obtain a stabilized release rate of the
   therapeutic agent. In embodiments employing an acrylic coating, a stabilized product can
 5 be preferably obtained by subjecting the subunit to oven curing at a temperature above
   the glass transition temperature of the plasticized acrylic polymer for the required time
   period. The optimum temperature and time for the particular formulation can be
   determined by routine experimentation.
           Once prepared, the subunit can be combined with at least one additional subunit
10 and, optionally; other excipients or drugs to provide an oral dosage form. In addition to
   the above ingredients, a sustained-release matrix also can contain suitable quantities of
   other materials, e.g., diluents, lubricants, binders, granulating aids, colorants; flavorants
    and glidants that are conventional in the pharmaceutical art.
            Optionally and preferably, the mechanical fragility of any of the sequestering
15 subunits described herein is the same as the mechanical -fragility of the therapeutic agent
   in releasable form. In this regard, tampering with the composition of the invention in a
   manner to obtain the therapeutic agent will result in the destruction of the sequestering.
   subunit, such that the antagonist is released and mixed .in with the therapeutic agent.
   Consequently, the antagonist cannot be separated from the therapeutic .agent, and the
20 therapeutic agent cannot be administered in the absence of the antagonist. Methods of
   assaying the mechanical fragility of the sequestering subunit and of a therapeutic agent
   are known in the art.
            The composition of the invention can be in any suitable dosage form or
   formulation, (see, e.g., Pharmaceutics and Pharmacy Practice, J. B. Lippincott
25 Company, Philadelphia, Pa., Banker and Chalmers, eds., pages 238-250 (1982)).
   Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the antagonist or agonist agents discussed herein
   include metal salts, such as sodium salt, potassium salt, cesium salt, and the like; alkaline
   earth metals, such as calcium salt, magnesium salt, and the like; organic amine salts, such
   as triethylamine salt, pyridine salt, picoline salt, ethanolamine salt, triethanolamine salt,
30 *dicyclohexylamine salt, NN'-dibenzylethylenediamine salt, and the like; inorganic acid
   salts, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, and the like; organic acid
                                                 36

     WO 2007/149438                                                            PCT/US2007/014282
   salts, such as formate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, tartrate, and the like; sulfonates,
   such as methanesulfonate, benienesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and the like; amino acid
   salts, such as arginate, asparginate, glutamate, and the like. Formulations suitable for oral
   administration can consist of (a) liquid solutions, such as an effective amount of the
 5 inhibitor dissolved in diluents, such as water, saline, or orange juice; (b) capsules,
   sachets, tablets, lozenges, and troches, each containing a predetermined amount of the
   active ingredient, as solids or granules; (c) powders; (d) suspensions in an appropriate
   liquid; and (e) suitable emulsions. Liquid formulations may include diluents, such as
   water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzyl alcohol, and the polyethylene alcohols,
10 either with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant. Capsule
   forms can be of the ordinary hard- or soft-shelled gelatin type containing, for example,
    surfactants, lubricants, and inert fillers, such as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, and
    corn starch. Tablet forms can include one or more of lactose, sucrose, mannitol, corn
    starch, potato starch, alginic acid, microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum,
15  colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, talc, magnesium stearate, calcium
    stearate, zinc stearate, stearic acid, and other excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering
    agents, disintegrating agents, moistening agents, preservatives, flavoring agents, and
    pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge forms can comprise the active
    ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as well as pastilles
20  comprising the active ingredient in an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose
    and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in addition to the active ingredient,
    such excipients as are known in the art.
             One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the-compositions of the
    invention can be modified in any number of ways, such that the therapeutic efficacy of
25  the. composition is increased through the modification. For instance,. the therapeutic agent
    or sequestering subunit could be conjugated either directly or indirectly through a linker
    to a targeting moiety. The practice of conjugating therapeutic agents or sequestering
    subunits to targeting moieties is known-in the art. See, for instance, Wadwa et al., J Drug
    Targeting 3: 111 (1995), and U.S. Pat. No. 5,087,616. The term "targeting moiety" as
30  used herein, refers to any molecule or agent that specifically recognizes and binds to a
    cell-surface receptor, such that the targeting moiety directs the delivery of the therapeutic
                                                    37

       WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
     agent or sequestering subunit to a population of cells on which the receptor is expressed.
     Targeting moieties include, but are not limited to, antibodies, or fragments thereof,
     peptides, hormones, growth factors, cytokines, and any other naturally- or non-naturally
     existing ligands, which bind to cell-surface receptors. The term "linker" as used .herein,
 5   refers to any agent or molecule that bridges the therapeutic. agent or sequestering subunit
     to the targeting moiety. One of ordinary skill in the art recognizes that, sites on the
     therapeutic agent or sequestering subunit, which are not necessary for the function of the
     agent or sequestering subunit, are ideal sites for attaching a linker and/or a targeting
     moiety, provided that the linker and/or targeting moiety, once attached to the agent or
10    sequestering subunit,'do(es) not interfere with the function of the 'therapeutic agent or
      sequestering subunit.
             With respect to the present inventive compositions, the composition is preferably
      an oral dosage forn. By "oral dosage form" is meant to include a unit dosage form
     prescribed or intended for oral administration comprising subunits. Desirably, the
15 .  composition comprises the sequestering subunit coated with the therapeutic agent in
     releasable form, thereby forming a composite subunit comprising the sequestering
     subunit and the therapeutic agent. Accordingly, the invention further provides a capsule
     suitable for oral administration comprising plurality of such composite subunits.
             Alternatively, the oral dosage form can comprise any of the sequestering subunits
20   of the invention in combination with a therapeutic agent subunit, wherein the therapeutic
     agent subunit comprises the therapeutic agent in releasable form. In this respect; the
     invention provides a capsule suitable for oral administration comprising a plurality of
     sequestering subunits of the invention and a plurality of therapeutic subunits, each of
     which comprises a therapeutic agent in releasable form.
25           The invention further provides tablets comprising a sequestering subunit of the
     invention and a therapeutic agent in releasable form. For instance, the invention provides
     a tablet suitable for oral administration comprising a first layer comprising any of the
     sequestering subunits of the invention and a second layer comprising therapeutic agent in
     releasable form, wherein the first layer is coated with the second layer. The first layer can
30   comprise a plurality of sequestering subunits. Alternatively, the first layer can be or can
     consist of a single sequestering subunit. The therapeutic agent in releasable form can be
                                                   38

      WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    in the form of a therapeutic. agent subunit and the second layer can comprise a plurality of
    therapeutic subunits. Alternatively, the second layer can comprise a single substantially
    homogeneous layer comprising the therapeutic agent in releasable form.
            When the blocking.agent is a system comprising a first antagonist-impermeable
 5  material and a core, the sequestering subunit can be in one of several different -forms. For
    example, the system can further comprise a second antagonist-impermeable material, in
    which case the sequestering unit comprises an antagonist, a first antagonist-impermeable
    material, a second antagonist-impermeable material, and a core. In this instance, the core
    is coated with the first antagonist-impermeable'material, which, in turii, is coated with the
10  antagonist, which, in turn, is coated with the second antagonist-impermeable material.
    The first antagonist-impermeable material and second antagonist-impermeable material
     substantially prevent release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
    gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. In some instances, it
    is preferable that the first antagonist-impermeable material is the same as the second
15  antagonist-impermeable material.. In other instances, the first antagonist-impermeable
   -material is different from the second antagonist-impermeable material. It is within the
    skill of the ordinary artisan to determine whether or not the first and second antagonist
    impermeable materials should be the same or different. Factors that influence the
     decision as to whether the first and second antagonist-impermeable materials should be
20  the same .or different can include whether a layer to be placed over the antagonist
   .impermeable material requires certain properties to prevent dissolving part or all of the
    antagonist-impermeable layer when applying the next. layer or properties to promote
    adhesion of a layer to be applied over' the antagonist-impermeable layer.
            Alternatively, the antagonist can be incorporated into the core, and the core -is
25  coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material. In this case, the invention provides
    a sequestering subunit comprising an antagonist; a core and a first antagonist
    impermeable material, wherein the antagonist is incorporated into the core and the core is
    coated with the first antagonist-imupermeable material, and wherein the first antagonist
    impermeable material substantially prevents release of the antagonist from the
30  sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24
    hours. By "incorporate" and words stemming therefrom, as used herein is meant to
                                                  39

     WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   inchide any means of incorporation, e.g., homogeneous dispersion of the antagonist
   throughout the core, a single layer of the antagonist coated on top of a core, or a multi
   layer system of the antagonist, which comprises the core.
           In another alternative embodiment, the core comprises a water-insoluble material,
 5 and the core is coated with the antagonist, which, in tum, is coated with the first
   antagonist-impermeable material. In this case, the invention further provides a
   sequestering subunit comprising an antagonist, a first antagonist-impermeable material,
   and a core, which comprises a water-insoluble material, wherein the core is coated with
   the antagonist, which, in turn, is coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material,
10 and wherein- the first antagonist-impermeable material substantially'prevents release of
   the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period
   that is greater than 24 hours. The term "water-insoluble material" as used herein means
   any material that is. substantially water-insoluble. The term "substantially water
   insoluble" does not necessarily refer to complete or 100% water-insolubility. Rather,
15 there are varying degrees of water insolubility of which one of ordinary skill in the art
   recognizes as having a potential benefit. Preferred water-insoluble materials include for
   example, microcrystalline cellulose, a calcium salt, and a wax. Calcium salts include, but
   are not limited to, a calcium phosphate (e.g., hydroxyapatite, apatite; etc.), calcium
   carbonate, calcium sulfate, calcium stearate, and the like.'Waxes include, for example,
20 carnuba wax, beeswax, petroleum wax, candelilla wax, and the like.
           In one embodiment, the seqestering subunit includes an antagonist and a seal
   coat where the seal coat forms a layer physically separating the antagonist within the
   sequestering subunit from the agonist which is layered upon the sequestering subunit. In
   one embodiment, the seal coat comprises one or more of an osmotic pressure regulating
25 agent, a charge-neutralizing additive, a sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing
   additive, and a first sequestering polymer (each having been described above). In such
   embodiments, it is preferred that the osmotic pressure regulating agent, charge
   neutralizing additive, and / or sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive,
   respectively where present, are present in proportion to the first sequestering polymer
30 such that no more than 10% of the antagonist is released from the intact dosage form.
   Where an opioid antagonist is used in the sequestering subunit and the intact dosage form
                                               40

     WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   includes an opioid agonist, it is preferred that ratio of the osmotic pressure regulating
   agent, charge-neutralizing additive, and / or sequestering polymer hydrophobicity
   enhancing additive, respectively where present, in relation to the first sequestering
   polymer is such that the physiological effect of the opioid agonist is not diminished when
 5 the composition is in its intact dosage form or during the normal course digestion in the
   patient. Release may be determined as described above using the USP paddle method
   (optionally using a buffer containing a surfactant such as Triton X-100) or measured from
   plasma after administration to a patient in the fed or non-fed state. In one embodiment,
   plasma naltrexone levels are determined; in others, plasma 6-beta naltrexol levels are
10 determined. Standard tests may be utilized to ascertain the antagonist's effect on agonist
   function (i.e., reduction of pain).
           The sequestering subunit of the invention can have a blocking agent that is a
   tether to which the antagonist is attached. The term "tether" as used herein refers to any
   means by which the antagonist is tethered or attached to the interior of the sequestering
15 subunit, such that the antagonist is not released, unless the sequestering subunit is
   tampered with. In this instance, a tether-antagonist complex is formed. The complex is
   coated with a tether-impermeable material, thereby substantially preventing release of the
   antagonist from the subunit. The term "tether-impermeable material" as used herein
   refers to any material that substantially prevents or prevents the tether from permeating
20 through the material. The tether preferably is an ion exchange resin bead.
           The invention further provides a tablet suitable for oral administration comprising
   a single layer comprising a therapeutic agent in releasable form and a plurality of any of
   the sequestering subunits of the invention dispersed throughout the layer of the
   therapeutic agent in releasable form. The invention also provides a tablet in which the
25 therapeutic agent in releasable form is in the form of a therapeutic agent subunit and the
   tablet comprises an at least substantially homogeneous mixture of a plurality of
   sequestering subunits and a plurality of subunits comprising the therapeutic agent.
           In preferred embodiments, oral dosage forms are prepared to include an effective
   amount of melt-extruded subunits in the form of multiparticles within a capsule. For
30 example, a plurality'of the melt-extruded muliparticulates can be placed in a gelatin
                                                41

        WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
      capsule in an amount sufficient to provide an effective release dose when ingested and
      contacted by gastric fluid.
              In another preferred       embodiment,    the subunits, e.g.,    in the form of
      multiparticulates, can be compressed into an oral tablet using conventional tableting
 5    equipment using standard techniques. Techniques and compositions for making tablets
      (compressed and molded), capsules (hard and soft gelatin) and pills are also described in
      Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, (Aurther Osol., editor), 1553-1593 (1980), which
      is incorporated herein by reference. Excipients in tablet formulation can include, for
      example, an inert diluent such as lactose, granulating and disintegrating agents, such as
10    cornstarch, binding agents, such as starch, and lubricating agents, such as -magnesium
      stearate.   In yet another preferred embodiment, the subunits are added during the
      extrusion process and the extrudate can be shaped into tablets as set forth in U.S. Pat. No.
      4,957,681 (Klimesch et al.), which is incorporated herein by reference.
              Optionally, the sustained-release, melt-extruded, multiparticulate systems or
15'   tablets can be coated, or the gelatin capsule can be further coated, with a sustained
      release coating,*such as the sustained-release coatings described herein. Such coatings are
      particularly useful when the subunit comprises an opioid agonist in releasable form, but
      not in sustained-release form. The coatings preferably include a sufficient amount of a
      hydrophobic material to obtain a weight gain level form about 2 to about 30 percent,
20    although the overcoat can be- greater, depending upon the physical properties of the
      particular opioid analgesic utilized and the desired release rate, among other things.
              The melt-extruded dosage forms can further include combinations of melt
      extruded multiparticulates containing one or more of the therapeutically active agents
      before being encapsulated. Furthermore, the dosage forms can also include an amount of
25    an immediate release therapeutic agent for prompt therapeutic effect. The immediate
      release therapeutic agent can be incorporated or coated on the surface of the subunits
      after preparation of the dosage forms (e.g., controlled-release coating or matrix-based).
    - The dosage forms can also contain a combination of controlled-release beads and matrix
  .   multiparticulates to achieve a desired effect.
30            The sustained-release formulations preferably slowly release the therapeutic
      agent, e.g., when ingested and exposed to gastric fluids, and then to intestinal fluids. The
                                                    42

      WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    sustained-release profile of the melt-extruded formulations can be altered, for example,
    by varying the amount of retardant, e.g., hydrophobic material, by varying the amount of
    plasticizer relative to hydrophobic material, by the inclusion of additional ingredients or
    excipients, by altering the method of manufacture; etc.
 5           In other embodiments, the melt-extruded material is prepared without the
    inclusion of the subunits, which are added thereafter to the extrudate. Such formulations
    can have the subunits and other drugs blended together with the extruded matrix material,
    arid then the mixture is tableted in order to provide a slow release of the therapeutic agent
    or other drugs. Such formulations can be particularly advantageous, for example,'when
10 -the therapeutically active agent included in the formulation is sensitive to temperatures
    needed for softening the hydrophobic material and/or the retardant material.
             In certain embodiments, the release of the antagonist of the sequestering subunit
    or composition is expressed in terms of a ratio of the release achieved after tampering,
    e.g., by crushing or chewing, relative to the amount released from the intact formulation.
15  The ratio is, therefore, expressed. as Crushed:Whole, and it is desired that this ratio have a
    numerical range of at least about 4:1 or greater (e.g., crushed release within 1 hour/intact
    release in 24 hours). In certain embodiments, the ratio of the therapeutic agent and the
    antagonist, present in the sequestering subunit, is about 1:1 to about 50:1 by weight,
    preferably about 1:1 to about 20:1 by weight or 15:1 to about 30:1 by weight. The weight
20  ratio of the therapeutic agent to antagonist refers to the weight of the active ingredients.
    Thus, for example, the weight of the therapeutic agent excludes the weight of the coating,
    matrix, or other component that renders the antagonist sequestered, or other possible
    excipients associated with the antagonist particles. In certain preferred embodiments; the
    ratio is about 1:1 to about 10:1 by weight. Because in certain embodiments the antagonist
25  is in a sequestered from, the amount of such antagonist within the dosage form can be
    varied more widely than the therapeutic agent/antagonist combination dosage forms,
    where both are available for release upon administration, as the formulation does not
    depend on differential metabolism or hepatic clearance for proper functioning. For safety
    reasons, the amount of the antagonist present in a substantially non-releasable form is.
30  selected as not to be harmful to humans, even if fully released under conditions of
    tampering.
                                                   43

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
           Thus, in certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
   antagonist in direct contact with a seal coat, an agonist in direct contact with the seal coat
   and a sequestering polymer but not the antagonist, wherein the antagonist and agonist are
   present within a single multilayer pharmaceutical. unit, is provided.              In others,
 5 pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutical dosing unit consisting
   essentially of a multiple layer bead comprising an antagonist and an agonist that are not
   in direct contact with one another are provided.            In yet others, pharmaceutical
   composition comprising a plurality of pharmaceutically active units wherein each unit
   comprises an antagonist, an agonist, a seal coat, and a sequestering polymer wherein the
10 antagonist and the agonist are not'in direct contact with one another. In still others,
   pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically inert support material such
   as a sugar sphere, an antagonist in direct contact with the support material, a seal coat in
   direct contact with the antagonist and an agonist, and a sequestering polymer in direct
   contact with the agonist are provided.          In preferred embodiments, multiple layer
15 pharmaceutical compositions comprising an agonist and an antagonist within distinct
    layers of the composition, wherein at least 90-95% of the antagonist is sequestered for at
    least 24 hours following administration to a human being are provided. In a particularly
   preferred embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition comprising naltrexone within a
    sequestering subunit and morphine in contact with the subunit but not the naltrexone,
20 wherein administration. of the composition to a human being results .in the release of
    substantially all of the morphine from the composition but less than 5-10% of the
    naltrexone from the composition within 24 hours of administration, is provided. Also
    provided are methods for preparing pharmaceutical compositions by, for example,
    adhering an antagonist to a pharmaceutically inert support material, coating the
25  antagonist with a seal coat that includes a sequestering polymer, coating the seal coat
    with an agonist, and coating the agonist.with a release-retarding or sequestering material.
    In another embodiment, a method for measuring the amount of antagonist or derivative
    thereof in a biological sample, the antagonist or derivative having been released from a
    pharmaceutical composition in vivo, the method comprising the USP paddle method at
30  37"C, 100 rpm, but further comprising incubation in a buffer containing a surfactant such
    as Triton X-100, for example.
                                                  44

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
           A particularly preferred embodiment comprises a multiple layer pharmaceutical is
   described in the Examples is multi-layer naltrexone / morphine dosing unit in an abuse
   resistant dosage form. Naltrexone is contained in a sequestering subunit comprising a
   seal coat comprising Eudragit* RS and the optimization agents SLS, talc and chloride
 5 ions that together prevent release of naltrexone upon hydration. Overlayed onto the
   sequestering subunit is a layer comprising morphine that is released upon hydration in pH
   7.5.buffer; the naltrexone, however, remains within the sequestering subunit under these
   conditions. If the unit is modified by, for example, crushing the unit, the sequestering
   subunit is crushed as well causing the release of both morphine and naltrexone therefrom.
10          Thus, the compositions are. particularly well-suited for use in preventing abuse of
   a therapeutic agent. In this regard, the invention also provides a method of preventing
   abuse of a therapeutic agent by a human being. The method comprises incorporating the
   therapeutic agent into any of the compositions of the invention. Upon administration of
   the composition of the invention to the person, the antagonist is substantially prevented
15 from being released in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24
   hours. However,' if a person tampers with the compositions, the sequestering subunit,
   which is mechanically fragile, will break and thereby allow the antagonist to be released.
   Since the mechanical fragility of the sequestering subunit is the same as the therapeutic
   agent in releasable form, the antagonist will be mixed with the therapeutic agent, such
20 that separation between the' two components is virtually impossible.
           A better understanding of the present invention and of its many advantages will
   be had from the following examples, given by way of illustration.
                                                 45

    WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
                                          EXAMPLES
           The preparations and experiments described below were actually performed. In
   certain cases, however, the present tense is utilized.
                                           Example 1
 5                                  Formulation Evaluation
   A.      Exclusion of charge-neutralization additive (SLS)
                                                RB 380-56
                                                   Gram per
                                                     batch         Percent
             Seal-coated sugar spheres
             Sugar spheres                            577.9          51.8
             Ethylcellulose N50                        46.2           4.1
             Talc                                     123.3          11.1
             Dibutyl Sebacate                           4.6           0.4
             Naltrexone cores
             Seal-coatedsugar spheres                (752.0)        (67.4)
             Naltrexone HCl                            27.2           2.4.
             Klucel LF                                  5.2           0.5
             Talc                                      12.8           1.1
             Ascorbic acid                              2.8           0.3
             Naltrexone pellets
             Naltrexone cores                        (800.0)        (71.7)
             Talc                                     150.0          13.5
             Dibutyl Sebacate                          15.0           1.3
             Total                                   1115.0         100.0
   Method of Preparation:
10 1. Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate were dissolved into ethanol and talc dispersed
       into the solution.
   2. The dispersion from 1 was sprayed onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal
       coated sugar spheres.
   3. Klucel LF and ascorbic acid were dissolved into a 20:80 mixture of water and
15     ethanol. Disperse naltrexone HCl and talc into the solution.
                                                 46

     WO 2007/149438                                                     PCT/US2007/014282
   4. The naltrexone dispersion from 3 was sprayed onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2
       in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
   5. Eudragit RS and dibutyl debacate- were dissolved into ethanol and talc dispersed into
       the solution.
 5 6. The dispersion from 5 was sprayed onto the naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to
       form naltrexone pellets.
   7. Pellets were dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
   8. The resulting pellets had a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 47gm.
10 Drug release results
   Dissolution conditions: USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm, I hour in 500mL of.
   0. IN HCI followed by 72 hours in 500mL of 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer.
   Conclusions: The results are shown in Figure 1. The exclusion of SLS from the
15 Naltrexone pellet (Eudragit RS) coat results in rapid release of Naltrexone, with more
   than 90% release in 24 hours.
                                               47

        WO 2007/149438                                              PCT/US2007/014282
B.     Variable amounts of SLS (Eudragit RS coat thickness of 53gm)
 Batch Number             RB 358-88             RB 358-73             RB 358-83
                          Gm per.              Gm per               Gm per
                          batch     Percent    batch       Percent  batch       Percent
 Seal-coated        sugar
  spheres
  Sugar spheres           646.1     50.1         646.1     50.0       646.1     49.8
  Ethylcellulose N50'     48.5      3.8       - 48.5       3.7 - -  -48.5       3.7
  Talc                    126.0     9.8          126.0     9.7        126.0     9.7
  Dibutyl Sebacate        4.9       0.4          4.9       0.4        4.9       0.4
  Magnesium stearate      19.4      1.5          19.4      1.5        19.4       1.5
  Sodium lauryl sulfate   1.9       0.2          1.9       0.1        1.9       0.1
  Naltrexone cores
 Seal-coated        sugar
  spheres                 (846.7)   (65.6)      -(846.7)   (65.5)     (846.7)    (65.2)
 Naltrexone HCI           29.5      2.3          29.5      2.3-       29.5      2.3
  Klucel LF               5.9       0.5          5.9       0.5        5.9       0.5
  Talc                    17.8      1.4          17.8      1.4        17.8       1.4
  Naltrexone pellets
 Naltrexone cores         (900.0)   (69.7)       (900.0)   (69.6)     (900.0)   (69.3).
  Talc                    184.6     14.3         184.3     14.3       183.7      14.2
 Dibutyl Sebacate         18.5      1.4          18.4      1.4        18.4       1.4
  Total                   1290.7    100.0        1293.2    100.0      1298.1    100.0
                                            48

     WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
    Method of preparation:
    1. Ethylcellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate were dissolved into
        ethanol, and then talc and magnesium stearate were dispersed into the solution.
    2. The dispersion from 1 was sprayed onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal
  5     coated sugar spheres.
    3. Klucel LF was dissolved into a 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol. Naltrexone HCI
        and talc were then dispersed into the solution.
    4. The naltrexone dispersion from 3 was then sprayed onto seal-coated sugar*spheres
        from .2 -in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
 10 5. Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate were dissolved into ethanol,
        and talc. dispersed into the solution.
    6. The dispersion from 5 was sprayed onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
        naltrexone pellets.
    7. The pellets were dried at 50*C for 13-16.5 hours.
15  8. The resulting pellets had a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 51-53sm.
    Drug release results
    Dissolution conditions: USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm, 72 hours in 500mL of
    0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
20
    Conclusions: The results are shown in Figure 2. Addition of a small amount of SLS
    (1.6%w/w of Eudragit RS) results in charge neutralization of Eudragit RS (theoretically
    20% neutralization), and significantly slows down the release of naltrexone. Further
    addition of SLS '(3.2%w/w of Eudragit RS) leads to further Eudragit RS charge
25  neutralization (theoretically 41% neutralization), and dramatically slows down release 'of
    naltrexone.    Still higher amount of SLS (6.3%w/w of Eudragit RS), however, results -in
    higher naltrexone release, possibly due to plasticizing effect of SLS.
                                                 49

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
3. Different levels of SLS (Eudragit RS coat thickness of 65stm)
  Batch Number                RB 358-88A                 RB 358-73A             RB 358-83A
                              Gm per                    Gm per                Gm        per
                              batch           Percent   batch       Percent   batch                Percent
  Seal-coated       sugar
  spheres
  Sugar spheres               646.1           45.5        646.1     45.4        646.1              45.1
  EthylcelluloseN50           48:5            3.4         48.5      3.4         48.5               3.4
  Talc                        126.0           8.9         126.0     8.8           126.0            8.8
  Dibutyl Sebacate            4.9             0.3         4.9       0.3         4.9                0.3
  Magnesium stearate          19.4            1.4         19.4       1.4          19.4             1.4
  Sodium lauryl sulfate       1.9             0.1         1.9       0.1           1.9              0.1
  Naltrexone cores
  Seal-coated       sugar
  spheres                     (846.7)         (59.6)      (846.7)   (59.4)      (846.7)            (59.1)
  Naltrexone HCl              29.5            2.1         29.5      2.1         29.5               2.1
  Klucel LF                   5.9             0.4         5.9       0.4         5.9                0.4
  Talc                        17.8            1.3         17.8      1.2           17.8             1.2
  Naltrexone pellets
  Naltrexone cores            (900.0)         (63.4)      (900.0)   (63.2)      (900.0)            (62.8)
                          2)______________
                            4________
                               5 -         17___                               .:           7-"'       -1 -77
                  90lii-1 J~*( VISIKtC                             .6          64                .
  Talc                    245.8            17.3         245.8.    17.3        245.8             17.2
  Dibutyl Sebacate        24.6             1.7          24.6      1.7         24.6             1.7
  Total                   1420.2           100.0        1424.4    100.0       1432.6           10O.0
                                                     50

         WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
Method of preparation
1. Ethylcellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate were dissolved into
     ethanol; talc and magnesium stearate were then dispersed into the solution.
2. The dispersion from I was sprayed onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal
     coated sugar spheres.
3. Klucel LF was dissloved into a 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol; naltrexone HCl
     and talc were then dispersed into the solution.
4. The naltrexone dispersion from 3 was then sprayed onto seal-coated sugar spheres
   - from  2 in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
5. Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyi debacate were dissolved into ethanol;
     talc was then dispersed into the solution.
6. the dispersion from 5 was sprayed onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
     naltrexone pellets.
7. The pellets were dried at 50 0 C for 13-16.5 hours.
8. The resulting pellets had a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 63-67pm.
Drug release results
Dissolution conditions: USP paddle method at 374C and 100rpm, 72 hours in 500mL of
0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
Conclusions:       The results are shown in Figure 3. As described above, there is an
optimal ratio of SLS to Eudragit RS.
B. Talc content relative to Eudragit RS polymer
  Batch Number                 RB 358-93                 RB 358-73A              RB 358-78
                                                          Gm                     Gm
                               Gm per                   per                    per
                             batch          Percent     batch      Percent     batch       Percent
  Seal-coated         sugar
  spheres
                                                     51

       WO 2007/149438                                                      PCT/US2007/014282
  Sugar spheres    .        646.1        46.5           646.1     45.4         646.1      43.9
  Ethylcellulose N50        48.5         3.5            48.5      3.4          48.5       3.3
  Talc                      126.0        9.1            126.0     8.8          126.0      8.6
  Dibutyl Sebacate          4.9          0.4            4.9       0.3          4.9        0.3
  Magnesium stearate         19.4        1.4            19.4      1.4          19.4       1.3
  Sodium lauryl sulfate      1.9         0.1            1.9       0.1          1.9        0.1
  Naltrexone cores
  Seal-coated        sugar                                                     (846.7.
  spheres.....        .        46. 7     (      .
                                              )61.0) 84.6.7)      (59.4)    ).(57.5)
  Naltrexone HCL            29.5         2.1            29.5      2.1          29.5       2.0
  Klucel LF                 5.9          0.4            5.9       0.4          5.9        0.4
  Talc                      17.8     .   1.3            17.8      1.2          17.8       1.2
  Naltrexone pellets
                                                                               (900.0
  Naltrexone cores          (900.0)      (64.8)        -(900.0)   (63.2)                  (61.1)
  Sodium lauryl sulfate   8.8          0.6           8.2        0.6         7.2         0.5
  Dibutyl Sebacate         6.6         1.9           24.6.      1.7         21.7        1.5
  Total                   1388.1       100.0         1424.4     100.0       1471.9      100.0
Method of preparation
1. Dissolve Ethylcellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then
   disperse talc and magnesium stearate into the solution.
2. Spray the dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal-coated sugar
   spheres.
3. Dissolve Klucel LF into. 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse naltrexone
   HCL and talc into the solution.
4. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2 in a
   Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
                                                  52

     WO 2007/149438                                                     PCT/US2007/014282
   5. Dissolve. Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate into ethanol.
      Disperse talc into the solution.
   6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
      naltrexone pellets.
 5 7. Pellets are dried at 50*C for 13-16.5 hours.
   8. Resulting pellets have Eudragit RS coat.thickness of 63-67pm.
   Drug release results
   Dissolution conditions: USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm, 72 hours in 5OOmIL of
10 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
   Conclusions: The results of this assay are shown in Figure 4, and demonstrate that there
   is an optimal ratio of talc to Eudragit RS (approximately 1:1).       Talc increases the
   hydrophobicity of the Eudragit RS coat, but also reduces film integrity at high amount.
15 Figure 5 demonstrates the transition point in the behavior of the film.         Figure 6
   demonstrates that there is a distinct optimum in the relationship between .film
   permeability and talc content when using a sugar sphere core.
   C. Effects of osmotic pressure reducing agents on top of Eudragit RS coat
20
                                     Percent
   Batch Number                      RB 362-28     RB 362-48     RB 362-67   RB 362-65
   Naltrexone cores
   Naltrexone HCl                    1.10          0.93          0.89         1.00
   Sugar (#20-25 mesh)               24.48         20.59         19.80       22.15
   HPC (Klucel LF)                   0.22          0.19
   HPMC, 3 cps                                                 10.18           0
   Citric acid                                               -4-0.004         0.004
   Ascorbic acid                                                 0.004        0.004
   BHA                                                           0.004        0.004
                                               53

   WO 2007/149438                                                    PCT/US2007/014282
  Talc                              0.66          0.56       0.54          0.60
  Naltrexone pellets
  Naltrexone cores                  (26.47)       (22.26)    (21.41)       (23.95)
  Eudragit RS PO                     10.64        8.95       8.62          9.64
  SLS                               0.36          0.30       0.29          0.33
  DBS                                1.06         0.89       0.85          0.95
  Talc                               10.89        9.16       8.62          9.64
  Naltrexone-morphine cores
    altrexonepellets  . ..        .  (49.41).     (41.55)    (39.78) ..    (44.50)
  Morphine sulfate                  26.05         21.70    . 21.70         24.76
  Confectioner's sugar                            13.66      9.32
  Sodium chloride                                            6.43          7.01
  HPMC, 3 cps                       2.32          3.46       3.13          4.10
  Naltrexone-morphine pellets
  Naltrexone-morphinecores           (77.78)      (80.37)    (80.37)       (80.37)
  Ethylcellulose N50                 7.48         7.07       7.07          7.07
  PEG 6000                           3.59         2.88       2.81          2.62
  Eudragit L100-55                  2.10          1.70       1.77          1.96
  DEP                                1.65         1.44       1.44          1.44
  Talc                              7.41          6.54       6.54          6.54
  Total                              100.00       100.00     100.00        100.00
  Method ofpreparation:
  1. Klucel LF or HPMC (with or without citric acid, ascorbic acid and butylated
      hydroxyanisole) was dissolved into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol; naltrexone
5     HCl and talc were dispersed into the solution.
  2. The naltrexone dispersion from I was sprayed onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to
      form naltrexone cores.
  3. Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate were dissolved into ethanol;
      talc was then dispersed into the solution.
                                               54

    WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
   4. The dispersion from 3 was sprayed onto naltrexone cores from 2 in a Wurster to form
       naltrexone pellets.
   5. The Naltrexone pellets were dried at 50*C for either 12 hours (RB 362-28 and RB
       362-48) or 65 hours (RB 362-67 and RB 362-65).
 5 6. The resulting pellets had a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 85-90pm.
   7. Sodium chloride and hypromellose were then dissolved into water.
   8. HPMC was dissolved into either water or mixture of ethanol and water.
   9. Sodium chloride was dissolved into the HPMC solution from 8.
   10. Confectioner's sugar was dispersed into the HPMC solution from 8.
10 11. Morphine sulfate was dispersed into the HPMC solution from 8.
   12.
               a. For RB 362-28, spray onto naltrexone pellets in 5 in a rotor the -solution
                   from 8, followed by the dispersion from 11, to form naltrexone-morphine
                   cores.
15             b. For RB 362-48, spray onto naltrexone pellets in 5 in a rotor the solution
                   from 8, followed by the dispersion from 10, followed by the solution from
                   8, and followed by the dispersion from 11, to form naltrexone-morphine
                   cores.
               c. For RB 362-67, spray onto naltrexone pellets in 5 in a rotor the solution
20                 from 9, followed by the dispersion from 10, followed by the solution from
                   8, and followed by the dispersion from 11, to form naltrexone-morphine
                   cores.
               d. For RB 362-65, spray onto naltrexone pellets in 5 in a rotor the solution
                   from 9, followed by the solution from 8, and followed by the dispersion
25                 from 11, to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
   13. Ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit L100-55 and diethyl phthalate were dissolved
       into ethanol and talc was dispersed into the solution.
   14. The dispersion from 13 was sprayed onto naltrexone-morphine cores in 12 to form
       naltrexone-morphine pellets.
30
                                                55

    WO 2007/149438                                                     PCT/US2007/014282
   Drug release results:
   Dissolution conditions: USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm, 72 hours in 500mL of
 5 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer; or, USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm, I hour in
   0. IN HCI, followed by 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
   Results:
                                      % NT       release' at  the end    of
               Batch Number           dissolution
                                      Naltrexone pellet.             2
               RB 362-28
                                      Naltrexone-morphine pellet     7.9
                                    -Naltrexone pellet               2
               RB 362-48
                                      Naltrexone-morphine pellet     68.5
                                      Naltrexone pellet              0
               RB 362-67
                                      Naltrexone-morphine pellet     25
                                     3Naltrexone pellet              0.2
               RB 362-65      .T
                                     jNaltrexone-morphine pellet     1.4
10
   Conclusions: Sugar has a detrimental effect on NT release. The use of NaCl / HPMC
   provides the desired NT release profile.
                                                56

    WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
   I.     Proof of Concept Study, 16mig Naltrexone HCI (20-727-1N
                                            PI-1460             PI-1461
                                            mg/unt     Percent  mg/unit    Percent
            Naltrexone HCI                  8          2.23     8          2.07
            Sugar sphere (#20-25 mesh) 177.9           49.6
            Cellets (#20-25 mesh)                               228.3      59.1
            HPC (Klucel LF)                 1.6 .      0.4       1.6       0.4
        -   Talc                           .4.8     - 1.3       4.8,       1.2'
            Eudragit RS PQ                  77.3      .21.5     66.2       17.2
            SLS             -2.6                       0.7      2.3        0.6
          -DBS                              7.7        2.1      6.6        1.7
            Tale                            79.1       22.0     68.2       17.7
            Total                           359        100.0    386        100.0
     A. Method of preparation
 5
          1. Dissolve Klucel LF into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol.           Disperse
          .  naltrexone HCL and talc into the solution.
          2. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres (for PI-1460) or
             Cellets (for PI-146 1) in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
10        3. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol.
             Disperse talc. into the solution.
          4. Spray the dispersion from 3 onto naltrexone cores from 2 in a Wurster to form
             naltrexone pellets.
          5. The naltrexone pellets are dried in an oven at 50*C for 12 hours.
15        6. Resulting pellets have Eudragit RS coat thickness of 90ptm (for PI-1460) and
             60pm (for PI-1461).
          7. The pellets are filled into capsules.
                                                 57

    WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
    B. In-vitro drug release
          Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm; 1 hour in 0.1N HCL, then 72
                       hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
 5        Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1460 = 2%
                     Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1461 = 0%
     C. In-vivo biostudy
10         Single-dose, open-label, two-period pilot study in 26 healthy subjects under
           fasting conditions:
                   Period 1: Oral liquid containing 16mg naltrexone (N=26)
                   Period 2: 2 capsules of PI-1460 (N=13) or PI-1461 (N=13)
          Blood samples were withdrawn from prior to dosing and from 0.5 to 72 hours
15        after dosing, and analyzed for plasma naltrexone and 6-beta-Naltrexol levels.
          Limit of quantitation was 20.Opg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250pg/mL for 6-beta
          Naltrex6l. The data is shown in Figures 7-10.
           Summary of pharmacokinetic results
20
                          6-beta-Naltrexol                       Naltrexone
                          NTX-         2   capsules 2 capsules   NTX         2 capsules 2 capsules
                          Solution   - of PI-1460 of PI-1461     Solution'    of PI-1460 of PI-1461
                                                                                          23.21
   Tmax (hr)              0.75         43.02   .     32.01       0.75        24.38 (N=4)
                                                                                          (N= 10)
   Cmax (pg/mL)           24600        298           834         2950        22.4 (N=1) 60.7
                                                                             200.2
   AUCI (pg*h/mL)         205800   .   10460        '32530       8925                      1258
                                                                             (N=11)
                                                                 9569
   AUCIinfr(pg*h/mL)      212700
                                                                 (N=23)
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution:
                                                 58

     WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   Cmax            Ratio
                                       1.21%        3.39%.                     0.76%       2.06%
   (Capsule/Solution)
   AUCast           Ratio
                                       5.08%        15.80%                    2.24%        14.08%
   (Capsule/Solution)
   N=26 for Solution, unless specified otherwise
   N=12 for PI-1460 or PI-1461, unless specified otherwise
   D. Conclusion
 5      L Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels provide a more accurate indicator of bioavailability
           than plasma NT levels, due to its higher plasma levels and higher analytical
           sensitivity.
        2. Using 6-beta-naltrexol AUCast ratio of capsules to solution as indicator of
           cumulative in vivo NT release, significant sequestering of naltrexone is observed
10         to 72 hours under fasting condition. Using Cellets as seed cores resulted in three
           times higher observed in vivo NT release than sugar. However, NT pellets using
           Cellet have lower RS coat thickness than Sugar (60pum versus 90pm), because at
           60pm, Cellet NT pellets have slightly better in vitro dissolution performance than
           Sugar NT pellets at 90pm.
15
   III.    Optimization Study #1, Morphine sulfate and Naltrexone 60mg/2.4mg
               (ALPH-KNT-002)
                                  PI-1462                       PI-1463
                                  mg/unit        Percent        mg/unit          percent
   Naltrexone cores
   Naltrexone HCl                 2.4            0.96           2.4            0.94
   Cellets (#20-25 mesh)          67.1           26.8           59.8           23.4
   HPC (Klucel LF)                0.5            0.2            0.5            0.2
   Citric acid                    0.01           0.0040         0.01           0.004
   Ascorbic acid                  0.01           0.0040         0.01           0.004
                                               59

   WO 2007/149438                                                      PCT/US2007/014282
  BHA                           0.01            0.0040       0.01           .0.004
  Talc                          1.38            0.6          1.57            0.6
  Subtotal                      71.4            28.5         64.3        -25.1
  Naltrexone pellets
  Naltrexone cores              (71.4)          (28.5)       (64.3)          (25.1)
  Eudragit RS PO                19.5            7.8          26              10.2
  SLS                          0.7              0.3          0.9       .     0.4
  DBS                          2                0.8          2.6             1.0
  Tale                         20               8.0.         26.6    .       10.4
  Subtotal                     113.6             5.4         120.4             7.1
  Naltrexone-morphine cores
  Naltrexonepellets            (113.6)          (45.4)       (120.4)         (47.1)
  Morphine sulfate             58.7            23.5          56.3            22.0
  Sodium chloride               16.6           6.6           16.6            6.5
  HPMC, 3 cps                   13.6           5.4           13.5            5.3
  Subtotal                       02.5          80.9          206.8           80.8
  Naltrexone-morphine pellets
  Naltrexone-morphinecores     (202.5)         (80.9)        (206.8)         (80.8)
  Ethylcellulose N50           16              6.4           16.4            6.4
  PEG 6000         .     .     7.4             3.0          7.6              3.0
  Eudragit.L100-55             3.5             1.4          3.6              1.4
  DEP                          3.3             1.3          3.4              1.3
  Talc                         17.5            7.0          18               7.0
  Total                        250.2           100.0          55.8           100.0
   *A. Method of preparation
      1. Dissolve Klucel LF, citric acid, ascorbic acid and butylated hydroxyanisole into
5        20:80 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse naltrexone HCl and tale into the
         solution.
                                             60

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
        2. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 1- onto Cellets in a Wurster to form
            naltrexone .cores.
        3. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate into ethanol.
            Disperse talc into the solution.
  5     4. -Spray the dispersion from 3 onto naltrexone cores from 2 in a Wurster to form
            naltrexone pellets.
        5. The Niltrexone pellets are dried at 500 C for 48 hours.
        6. Resulting pellets have a Eudiagit RS coat thickness of 60prm for PI-1462 and
            9Opim for PI-1463.
 10     7. Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
        8. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
            morphine sulfate into the solution.
        9. Spray the solution from 7 followed by the dispersion from 8 onto naltrexone
            pellets in 5 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
15      10. Dissolve ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit L100-55 and diethyl phthalate into
            ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
        11. Spray the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone-morphine cores in 9 to form
            naltrexone-morphine pellets.
        12. The pellets are filled into capsules.
20
    B. In-vitro drug release
            Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm.
                      - 1 hour in 0.1N HCI, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
25          Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1462= 0%
                      - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1463 = 0%
    C. In-vivo study
            This is a single-dose, open-label, single-period study in which two groups of eight
30  subjects received one dose of either PI-1462 or PI-1463 under fasting condition. Blood
    samples were drawn prior to dose administration and at 0.5 to 168 hours post-dose.
                                                   61

    WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   Limits of quantitation are 4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250 pg/mL for 6-beta
   naltrexol. The data is shown in Figures 11-12.
         2. Summary of pharmacokinetics parameters
 5
                                   6-beta-Naltrexol             Naltrexone
                                   PI-1462       PI-1463        PI-1462         PI-1463
   Tmax (hr)                       49.52         40.53          42.03           37.75 (N=3)
   Cmax'(pg/mL)                    349           285            25.3            35.5
   AUCist(pg*h/mL)                  16850        11130          705.1            835.0
   AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                 17040         11170          1057(Ne4)       1711(N=3)
   T1/2 (hr)                       18.18         14.49          14.15 (N=4)     8.89 (N=3)
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
   Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)      9.46%         7.72%         5.71%            8.02%
   AUCIt Ratio (Test/Solution) 54.58%            36.05%        52.67%           62.37%
   AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution) 53.41%            35.01%        78.95%           119.2%
   N=8, unless specified otherwise
   3. Conclusion
   a. Plasma 6-beta-naltrexol levels provide more consistent indication of bioavailability
10     than Naltrexone.
   b. There is significant release in-vivo in both formulations, as indicated by relative
       bioavailability based on AUCco ratios. 90ptm coat thickness results in less release
       than 60pm.      Comparing PI-1463 (Opt #1) with PI-1461 (POC), the- coating of
       morphine/NaCl/Kadian ER coat on top of Naltrexone pellet causes more than three
15     fold increase in NT release.
   c. 7-day duration of study allows 6-beta-naltrexol to return to baseline.
   d. There is clearly no in vitro / in vivo correlation regarding NT release, using
       conventional buffer system. In vitro dissolution shows 0% NT release at the end of
       72 hours, but in vivo data reveals significant NT release.
                                                 62

 WO 2007/149438                                                PCT/US2007/014282
IV.     Optimization Studies #2 and #3, Morphine sulfate and Naltrexone HCI
        60mg/2.4mg (20-778-1N and 20-779-IN)
                              PI-1465                   PI-1466
                              mg/unit      Percent      mg/unit       Percent
Sealed-coated sugar spheres
Sugar spheres (#20-25 mesh)   52.1         16.0         53.1           14.6
Ethylcellulose N50            3.9          1.2          3.98           1.1
Mag Stearate                  1.6    '     0.5 -   -1.6               0.4'
Dibutyl Sebecate              0.4          0.1          0.4           0.1
Talc                          10           3.1          10.27         2.8
Subtotal                      68.0         20.9         69.4          19.0
Naltrexone cores
Sealed sugar spheres          (68.0)       (20.9)       (69.4)        (19.0)
Naltrexone HCL                2.4          0.74         2.4         . 0.66
HPC (Klucel LF)      .0.5                  0.2          0.5           0.1
Citric acid                   0.01         0.0031       0.01          0.0027
Ascorbic acid                 0.01         0.0031       0.01          0.0027
Butylated Hydroxyanisole      0.01         0.0031       0.01          0.0027
Talc                          1.4          0.4          1.43          0.4
Subtotal                      72.3         22.3         73.7          20.2
Naltrexone pellets
Naltrexone cores              (144.7)      (44.5)       (147.4)       (40.4)
Eudragit RS PO                25.4         7.8          38.7          10.6
Sodium lauryl sulfate         0.9          0.3          1.31          0.4
Dibutyl Sebecate              2.53         0.8         3.87           1.1
Talc                          26           8.0         38.7           10.6
Subtotal                      199.5        61.4        230.0          63.1
Naltrexone-morphine cores
Naltrexonepellets             (199.5)      (61.4)      (230.0)        (63.1)
                                       63

    WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
    Morphine sulfate                   59.3           18.2         59.5         16.3
    Sodium chloride                    17.5           5.4   .      20.1         5.5
.   Hypromellose 2910, 3 cps           14.2           4.4          15.1         4.1
    Subtotal                           290.5          89.4         324.7        89.0
    Naltrexone-morphine pellets
    Naltrexone-morphine cores          (290.5).       (89.4)       (324.7)      (89.0)
    Ethylcellulose N50                 11.51          3.5          13.1         3.6
    Polyethylene glycol 6000           5.3          -1.6           6.1          1.7
    EudragitL100-55..        ...     . 2.1            0.6..   .   .2.85.   .... 0.8
    Diethyl Phthalate                  2.4.           0.7          2.8          0.8
    Talc                               13.23         4.1           15.2         4.2
    Total                              325.0          100.0-      364.8         100.0
      A. Method of preparation
        1. Dissolve Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then disperse talc and
  5        magnesium stearate into'the solution.
        2. Spray the dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal-coated
           sugar spheres (25 pm seal coat thickness).
        3. Dissolve Klucel LF, citric acid, ascorbic acid and butylated hydroxyanisole into
           20:80 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse naltrexone HCl and -talc into the
10         solution.
       4. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2 in a
           Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
       5. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate into ethanol.
           Disperse tale into the solution.
15     6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
           naltrexone pellets.
       7. The Naltrexone. pellets are dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
       8. Resulting pellets have a Eudragit RS cbat thickness of 90gm for PI-1465 and
           120pm for PI-1466.
                                                64-

    WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
       9. Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
       10. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
            morphine sulfate into the solution.
        11. Spray the solution from 9 followed by the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone
 5   .      pellets in 7 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
        12. Dissolve ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit Ll00-55 and diethyl phthalate into
            ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
        13. Spray the dispersion from 12 onto naltrexone-morphine cores in 11 to form
            naltrexone-morphine pellets.
10      14. The pellets are filled into capsules.
      B. In-vitro drug release
        1. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
15                     - 1 hour in 0.1N HCl, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
            Results    - Percent of NT released at 73.hours for PI-1465 = 1%
                       - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1466    0%
        2. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
20                     - 72 hrs in 0.2% Triton X-100/0.2% sodium acetate/0.002N HC , pH 5.5
                       -The data is shown in Figure 13.
    C. In-vivo study #1
           This is a single-dose, open-label, single-period study in which two groups of eight
25  subjects received one dose of either PI-1465 or PI-1466 under. fasting condition. Blood
    samples were drawn prior to dose administration and          at 0.5 to 168 hours post-dose.
    Limits of quantitation are 4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250 pg/mL for 6-beta
    naltrexol. The data is shown in Figures 14-15.
 30
                                                    65

     WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
         2. Summary of pharmacokinetics parameters
                                   6-beta-Naltrexol            Naltrexone
                                   PI-1465       PI-1466       PI-1465           PI-1466
    Tmax (hr)                      58.51         79.50         50.30 (N=7)       45.17 (N=3)..
    Cmax (pg/mL)                   1060          72.6          139.3             46.2
    AUCt (pg*h/mL)                 54693         23473         3713              744
    AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                56260         23940         7213 (N=4)        5943 (N=2)
    T1/2 (hr)                      20.90         15~09         16.47 (N=4)       34.10 (N=2)
    Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
    Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     4.31%          1.97%        4.72%              1.57%
    AUCat Ratio (Test/Solution) 26.58%            11.41%       41.60%            8.34%
    AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution). 26.45%           11.26%       75.38%            62.11%
    N=8, unless specified otherwise
  5 3. Conclusions
            a. Presence of surfactant in the dissolution medium (second in-vitro drug release
               method) provides better in-vitro-in-vivo-correlation than buffer alone (first in
               vitro drug release method).
.10         b. Kadian NT pellets (additional layering of NaCl/morphine/Kadian ER coat on
               top of naltrexone pellets) had a higher release of naltrexone in vivo than
               Naltrexone pellets alone.      PI-1465 containing the seal coat and the same
               naltrexone pellet coat thickness as PI-1460'from POC without seal coat
               (90pm), had more than 5 times more release of naltrexone. Even an increase
 15            in Naltrexone pellet coat thickness- to 120im (PI-1466) still gave twice the
               release of naltrexone.
                                                   66

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    D. In-vivo study #2
            This is -a single-dose, open-label, single-period study in which four groups of four
    healthy subjects received a single dose of either PI-1465 or PI-1466 under either fasting
    or fed conditions. Blood samples were drawn prior to dose administration and at 0.5 to
 5. 168 hours post-dose. Limits of quantitation are 4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250
    pg/mL for 6-beta-naltrexol. The data is shown in Figures 16-17.
        1. Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters
         -a. Naltrexone
10
                                     PI-1465      .              PI-1466
                                     Fast           Fed          Fast                Fed
    Tmax (hr)                        72.00        26.67 (N=3)    60.00 (N=2)       32.00 (N=3)
    Cmax (pg/mL)                     107.3-       279.3          35.73             262
    AUCIat(pg*h/mL)                  2825         4135           1319              4611
    AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                  3593 (N=1) 6787 (N=2)       3651 (N=2)        -
    T1/2 (hr).                       15.26 (N=1) 20.98 (N=2)     24.75 (N=2)       -
    Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution(Dose-adjusted)
    Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)       3.64%        9.47%          1.21%             8.89%
    AUCIat Ratio (Test/Solution) 31.65%           46.33%         14.78%            51.66%
    AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution) 37.55%            70.93%         38.15%            -
    N=4, unless specified otherwise
          b. 6-beta-Naltrexol levels
                                     PI-1465                     PI-1466
                                     Fast           Fed          Fast                Fed
    Tmax (hr)                        69.00        29.00          69.00             36.00
    Cmax (pg/mL)                     1280         3787           873               2680
                                                   67

   WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
   AUCIast(pg*h/mL)                53307        120400       47140             78533
   AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                53547         122533       47920             78867
   T1/2 (hr)                       19.21        18.17        20.69             20.19
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution
   Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     5.20%         15.39%       3.55%             10.89%
   AUCIat Ratio (Test/Solution) 25.90%          58.50%       22.91%            38.16%
   AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution) 25.17%           57.61%  -    22.53%.-          37.08%
   N=4, -unless specified otherwise-
      2. Conclusion
 5        a. There is significant food effect, where the lag time was reduced and NT
              release was increased in the presence of food. There is a two-fold increase in
              NT release for PI-1465 and 1.5-fold increase for PI-1466 in the. presence of
              food.
          b. There is some subject group variability. Comparing PI-1466'in both in-vivo
10            study #1 and #2, although the same product was used, for fasting condition,
              there was a two-fold difference in .AUC. For PI-1465, the AUC was similar
          .   between the two studies.
                                                68

 WO 2007/149438                                               PCT/US2007/014282
V.     Optimization Study #4, Morphine sulfate and Naltrexone HCI 60mg/4.8rn
           (20-780-IN)
                            PI-1495                   PI-1496
                            mg/unit-    -ercent    .mg/unit       Percent
Sealed-coated sugar.spheres
Sugar spheres (#25-30 mesh) 37.2         11.7         37.1        11.9
Ethylcellulose N50          6.2          1.9        .6.2          2.0
Mag Stearate                2.5          0.8          2.5         0.8
DBS                         0.6          0.2          0.6         0.2
Talc                        15.5         4.9          15.5        5.0
Subtotal                    62.0         19.4         61.9        19.9
Naltrexone cores
Sealed sugar spheres          (62.0)        (19.4)    (61.9)      (19.9)
Naltrexone HCI              4.8          1.50         4.8         1.54
HPC (Klucel LF)             0.9          0.3          0.9         0.3
Ascorbic acid               0.5          0.2          0.5         0.2
Talc                        2.27         0.7          2.24        0.7
Subtotal                     70.5          2.1        70.3        22.6
Naltrexone pellets
Naltrexone cores              (70.5)     (22.1)       (70.3)      (22.6)
Eudragit RS PO              53.3         16.7         53.3        17.1
SLS                         1.8          0.6          1.8         0.6
DBS                         5.36         1.7          5.36        1.7
Talc                        52.1         16.3         52.1        16.8
Subtotal                    183.0          7.4        182.9        8.8
Naltrexone-morphine cores
Naltrexone pellets          (183.0)      (57.4)       (182.9)     (58.8)
Morphine sulfate            59.9         18.8.        59.7        19.2
Sodium chloride             11.2         3.5
                                     69

    WO 2007/149438                                                      PCT/US2007/014282
   HPC (Klucel LF)                  7.3          2.3            4.76         1.5
   HPMC, 3 cps                                                  762.4
   Subtotal                         261.4          2.0          255.0       82.0
   Naltrexone-morphine pellets
   Naltrexone-morphinecores         (261.4)       (82.0)        (255.0)     ('82.0)
   Ethylcellulose N50               19.81        6.2            19.31       6.2
   PEG 6000                         9.16         2.9            8.9         2.9
   Eudragit L100-55                 4.3           1.3           4.2          1.4
   DEP                              4.12          1.3  .4                    1.3
   Talc                             20.13         6.3           19.62       6.3
   Total                            319.0         100.0          11.0       100.0
    A. Method of preparation
       1. Dissolve Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then disperse talc and
 5        magnesium stearate into the solution.
      2. Spray the dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal-coated
          sugar spheres (50pim seal coat).
      3. Dissolve Klucel LF and ascorbic acid into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol.
          Disperse naltrexone HCl and talc into the solution.
10    4.  Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2 in a
          Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
      5. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate into ethanol.
          Disperse talc into the solution.
      6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
15        naltrexone pellets.
      7. The Naltrexone pellets are dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
      8. Resulting pellets have a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 150tm for both PI-1495
          PI-1496.
      9. (Only for PI-1495) Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
                                              70

   WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
     10. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
         morphine sulfate into the solution.
     11. (Only for PI-1495) Spray the solution from 9 followed by the dispersion from 10
         onto naltrexone pellets in 7 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
 5   12. (Only for PI-1496) Spray the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone pellets in 7 in a
         rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
     13. Dissolve ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit L100-55 and diethyl phthalate into
         ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
     14. Spray the dispersion from 12 onto naltrexone-morphine 'cores in 11 or 12 to form
10       naltrexone-morphine pellets.
     15. The pellets are filled into capsules.
   B. In-vitro drug release
15        1. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
                     - 1 hour in 0. IN HCI, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
             Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1495 = 0%
                     - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1496= 0%
20       2. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
                      - 72 hrs in 0.2% Triton X-100/0.2% sodium acetate/0.002N HCl, pH
                         5.5
             Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1495 = 0%
                      - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1496    0%
25
   C. In-vivo study
       This is a single-dose, open-label, two period study in which two groups of eight
       subjects received one dose of either PI-1495 or PI-1496. Each subject received an
30     assigned treatment sequence based on a randomization schedule under fasting and
       non-fasting conditions. Blood samples were drawn prior to dose administration and
                                               71

    WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
         at 0.5 to 168 hours post-dose.' Limits of quantitation are 4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone
         and 0.250 pg/mL for 6-beta-naltrexol. The data is shown in Figures 18-19.
       2. Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters
 5       a. Naltrexone
                                  PI-1495                      PI-1496
                                  Fast            Fed          Fast              Fed
   Tmax (hr)                       54.00 (N=2) 14.34 (N=3)     55.20 (N=5)      41.60 (N=5)
   Cmax (pg/mL)                    8.53          6.32 (N=7)    24.23 (N=7)      45.67 (N=7)
   AUCast (pg*b/mL)                100.8         75.9 (N=7)    500.6 (N=7)       1265 (N=7)
   AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                --            --             2105.3 (N=2)     3737 (N=2)
   T1/2 (hr)                      --            --             44.56 (N=2)      33.17 (N=2)
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
   Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     0.29%         0.21%          0.82%            1.55%
   AUCIst Ratio (Test/Solution) 1.13%           0.85%          5.61%            14.17%
   AUCco Ratio (Test/Solution)    --            --            22.0%             39.1%
   N=8, unless specified otherwise
   b. 6-beta-Naltrexol levels
10
                                  PI-1495                      PI-1496
                                  Fast           Fed           Fast              Fed
   Tmax (hr)                      69.00         41.44 (N=7)    70.51            67.63
   Cmax (pg/mL)                   116.3         151.7 (N=7)    303.3            656.7
   AUCIst (pg*h/mL)               5043          7332 (N-7)     14653            27503
   AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                5607          8449 (N=6)    14930             27827
   T1/2 (hr)                      20.97         16.69 (N=7)    16.29            22.59
                                                 72

    WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
   Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     0.47%         0.62%          1.23%             2.67%
   AUCist Ratio (Test/Solution) 2.45%           3.45%         7.12%              13.36%
   AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution) 2.64%            3.97%         7.02%              13.08%
   N=8, unless specified otherwise
   3. Conclusion      ......                                                      .. ...
      a. Kadian NT pellets with naltrexone pellet coat thickness of 150pm had comparable
 5         naltrexone release as NT pellets with 90pm coat thickness. This comparable NT
           release may also be attributed from the presence of 50im seal coat on the sugar
           spheres used in Kadian NT pellets.
      b. Significant NT sequestering was observed, both at fasting (>97%) and fed states
           (>96%);
10    c. Kadian NT pellets containing sodium chloride immediately above the naltrexone
           pellet coat (PI-1495) had half the release of naltrexone compared to Kadian NT
           pellet without sodium chloride (PI-1496), consistent with in vitro results.
      d. There is again food effect observed. Lag time was significantly reduced.
                                                 73

   WO 2007/149438                                              PCT/US2007/014282
  VI.  Optimization Study #5, Morphine sulfate and Naltrexone HCI 60mg/2.4mg
           (20-903-AU)
                                              PI-1510
                                              mg/unit  Percent
                  Sealed sugar spheres
                  Sugar spheres (#25-30 mesh) 39.9     12.2
                  Ethylcellulose N50          6.5      2.0
                  vag Stearate                2.6      0.8
                  DBS                         0.7      0.2
                  Talc                        16.7     5.1
                  Subtotal                    66.4     20.3
                  Naltrexone cores
                  Sealed sugar spheres        (66.4)   (20.3)
                  Naltrexone HCI              2.4      0.73
                  HPC (Klucel LF)             0.5      0.1
                  Ascorbic acid               0.2      0.1
                  Talc                        1.1      0.4
                  Subtotal                    70.6     21.6
                  Naltrexone pellets
                  Waltrexone cores            (70.6)    (21.6)
                  Eudragit RS PO              53.0      16.2
                  SLS                         1.8       0.6.
                  DBS                         5.3       1.6
                  Talc                        53.0      16.2
                  Subtotal                    183.7     56.2
                  Naltrexone-morphine cores
                  Naltrexone pellets          (183.7)   (56.2)
                  Morphine'sulfate            60.1      18.4
                  Sodium chloride             12.5      3.8
                  HPC (Klucel LF)             6.2       1.9
                  Subtotal              --    262.4     80.2
                  Naltrexone-morphine pellets           .
                  Naltrexone-morphine cores   (262.4)   (8 0.2
                  Ethylcellulose N50          22.9      7.0
                .PEG 6000                     10.6      3.2
                 .Eudragit L100-55            5.0       1.5
                  DEP.                        4.7       1.5
                    alc                       21.5    . 6.6
                  Total                       327.1     100.0
5
                                           74

    WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
     B. Method of preparation
          1. Dissolve Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then disperse tale
               and magnesium stearate into the solution.
          2. Spray the dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal
  5            coated sugar spheres (50 jim seal coat).
          3. Dissolve Klucel LF and ascorbic acid into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol.
               Disperse naltrexone HCI and talc into the solution.
          4. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2
               in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
 10       5. Dissolve EudragitlS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol.
               Disperse tale into the solution.
          6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
               naltrexone pellets.
          7. The Naltrexone pellets are dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
 15       8. Resulting pellets have a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 150ptm.
         9. Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
          10. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
              morphine sulfate into the solution.
          11. Spray the solution from 9 followed by the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone
20            pellets in 7 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
          12. Dissolve ethilcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit L100-55 and diethyl phthalate
              into ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
          13. Spray the dispersion from 12 onto naltrexone-morphine cores in 11 or 12 to
              form naltrexone-morphine pellets.
25        14. The pellets are filled into capsules.
    B. In-vitro drug release
         1. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 1OOrpm
                       - 1 hour in 0.lN HCl, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
30           Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for = 0%
                                                 75

     WO 2007/149438                                                       PCT/US2007/014282
             2. Method - USP paddle method at 370 C and 100rpm
                         - 72 hrs in 0.2% Triton X-100/0.2% sodium acetate/0.002N HCI, pH
                             5.5
                Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours    0%
  5
    C. In-vivo study
             This is a single-dose, open-label, two period study in which eight subjects were
    randomized to receive one .dose of PI-1510 under either fasted or fed state during Study
    Period 1 and alternate fasted or f6d state for Study-Period 2. Blood samples were drawn
 10 prior to dose administration and at 0.5 to 16- hours post-dose. Limits of quantitation are
    4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250 pg/mL for 6-beta-naltrexol. The data is shown in
    Figures 20 and 21.
        2. Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters
 15       a.. 6-beta-Naltrexol levels
                                             PI-1510
                                             Fast          Fed
               Tmax (hr)                     45.00 (N=6)  57.29 (N=7)
               Cmax (pg/mL)                  16.1         25.0
               AUCIst (pg*h/mL)              609.2.       1057
               AUCoo (pg*h/mL)               1233         1431 (N=6)
               T1/2 (hr)                     17.36        17.48 (N=6)
               Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose
               adjusted)
               Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution) 0.44%          0.68%
               AUCist Ratio (Test/Solution) 1.97%        3.42*%
               AUCoo Ratio (Test/Sblution) 3.86%         4.49%
                N=8, unless specified otherwise
      3. Conclusion
            a. PI-1510 and PI-1495 are comparable. The reduction in naltrexone loading in
20              the pellets (from 1.5% in PI-1495 to 0.7% in PI-15 10) does not seem to affect
                NT release.
                                                 76

    WO 2007/149438                                                      PCT/US2007/014282
           b. Significant NT sequestering was observed, both at fasting (>96%) and fed
               states (>95%).
           c. The food effect observed was modest in terms of total NT release. However,
               the lag time was significantly reduced in the presence of food. There were
 5             subjects with multiple peaks of release.
   VII. Summary of NT release from all in-vivo studies
   BA (Cmax)     =  Relative bioavailability based on Cmax     Dose-adjusted ratio of Cmax
   (NT/KNT pellet) to Cmax (NT soin)
10 BA (AUC last)-= Relative bioavailability based on AUC last      =  Dose-adjusted ratio of
   AUC last (NT/KNT pellet) to AU
   BA (AUC inf) = Relative bioavailability based on AUC inf = Dose-adjusted ratio of
   AUC inf (NT/KNT pellet)
   Total in-vivo cumulative NT release can be extrapolated from BA (AUC inf) calculations
15 from 6-beta-Naltiexol plasma levels
                                           BA (AUC      last)
                         BA (Cmax)(%) (        )              BA (AUC int) (%)
    POC
   PI-1460 Fast
        Avg SD          1.2 0.9
      . Range            0.32 - 2.99
   PI-1461 Fast
        Avg SD          3.1+2.4           1                                                 -1M
        Range            0.7-10.3
   OPTIM. #1
   PI-1462 Fast
        Avg SD          9.5 2.8          54.6 21.0
        Range            5.7 - 13.0       26.3 - 86.3               8
   PI-1463 Fast
        Avg SD          7.7 3.7          36.1 18.2
        Range            0.8-12.4         3.9-59.2
                                                 77

 WO 2007/149438                                   PCT/US2007/014282
OPTIM.#2 and #3
PI-1465
Fast 1
    Avg SD      4.3   6.2  26.6 35.4      2'13
    Range       0.1 - 18.6 0.1 -111.6     0    14
Fast
    Avg SD      5.2 3.9    25.9+15.7   -w,2
    Range       1.8-10.5   9.6-41.5       }]4-4@
Fed
    Avg SD -    15.4 12.5  58.5 34.6
    Range       1A4-31.2   11.9 -90.6'
                                 78

  WO 2007/149438                                                  PCT/US2007/014282
                          .     .BA      (AUC. last)
                   BA (Cmax).   %                    BA (AUC in       %
 OPTIM. #2 and #3
 PI-1466
 Fast I
     Avg- SD       2.0 +L2.3     11.4: 11.8
     Range         0.2 -5.9 '    1.1 -30.02
 Fast 2
     Avg +SD       3.6 3.9       22.9 -625.6                    9
     Range         0.5 -8.6      1.8 -57.4                  6II                     -I
 Fed
     Avg SD        10.9 12.7     38.240.0               .      9]..
     Range         0.3-28.5      1.2-190.3.
 OPTIM. #4
 PI-1495
 Fat
             Ran~~ 0.1 194402.0    8.
     Avg SD       0.5 0.5      2.5 2.3                  2
     Range         0.1 -1.4      5.9 -0.3                   .7]
 Fed
     Avg =kSD      3.0 6.7       10.219.4                    #
     Range         0. 1 19.4     0.2 -57.0
.Fed (-Subject 1)
     Avgh SD       0.6 :L0.9     3.6 4.9       -      AL
     Range         0.1 -2.5      0.2 -13.8                                 .
 PI-1496
 Fast
     Avg +SD       1.2 0.9       7.14.6
     Range         0.1-2.7       0.6 - 14.2
 Fed.
     Avg d:SD      2.7 2.9,      13.4 12.6
     Range         0.1 -7.6      0.1 -31.6
                                       79

   WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
  OPTIM. #5
  PI-1510
  Fast
      Avg                                       0.4         2.0
  Fed
      Avg-                                      0.7         3.4
           While the present invention has been described in terms of the preferred
  embodiments, it is understood that variations and modifications will occur to those
5 skilled -in the art.  Therefore;, it is intended that. the appended .claims cover all such
  equivalent x'afiations that come within the scope of the invention as claimed.
                                                80

    WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
   CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
   1. A multi-layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an agonist and an antagonist
       thereof, wherein the agonist and antagonist are not in contact with one another in the
 5      intact form of the composition, wherein the agonist is substantially released and the
        antagonist is substantially sequestered upon administration to a human being.
   2. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 1 wherein the agonist and antagonist are
        separated from one another by a seal coat comprising a sequestering polymer:
   3. .A pharmaceutical composition of claim 2 wherein the seal coat comprises a
10      sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive.
   4. A pharmaceutical composition. of claim 2 wherein the seal coat further comprises a
       charge-neutralizing additive.
   5. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 1 wherein the agonist and antagonist are
        separated from one another by seal coat comprising a sequestering polymer, a
15      sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive, and a charge-neutralizing
       additive.
   6. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 2-5 wherein the sequestering
       polymer is Eudragit* RS.
   7. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 3, 5 or 6 wherein the sequestering polymer
20     hydrophobicity-enhancing additive is talc.
   8. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 4, 5 or 6 wherein the charge-neutralizing
       additive is sodium lauryl sulfate.
   9. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-8 wherein the composition
       comprises at least a first layer comprising an agonist and a second layer comprising
25     an antagonist thereof, and wherein the first and second layers are physically separated
       from one another by a third layer.
   10. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 9 wherein the first layer is external to the
       second layer.
   11. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 9 or 10 wherein the third layer includes at
30     least one sequestering polymer, and optionally includes a sequestering polymer
       hydrophobicity-enhancing additive, a charge-neutralizing additive, or both, and
                                                 81

     WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
         wherein the weight-by-weight ratio of sequestering polymer hydrophobicity
         enhancing additive or charge-neutralizing additive to the sequestering polymer in the
         third layer is such that no more than 10% of the antagonist is released from the
         composition as determined using the USP paddle method at 37*C, 100 rpm, with
 5       incubation in a buffer containing a surfactant.
    12. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 9 or 10 wherein the third layer includes at
          least one sequestering polymer, and optionally includes a sequestering polymer
         hydrophobicity-enhancing additive, a charge-neutralizing additive, or both, wherein
          the , weight-by-weight' ratio of sequestering polymer hydropiobicity-enhancing
10.       additive or charge-neutralizing additive to the sequestering polymer in the third layer
          is such that no more than approximately 10% of the antagonist is released from the.
          composition in vivo following administration to a patient.
    13. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 9 or 10 wherein the third layer includes at
          least one sequestering polymer, and optionally includes a sequestering polymer
15     .  hydrophobicity-enhancing additive, a charge-neutralizing additive, or both, wherein
          the weight-by-weight. ratio of sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing
           additive or charge-neutralizing additive to the sequestering polymer in the third layer
           is such that no more than approximately 10% of the antagonist is released from the
           composition in vivo following administration to a patient as determined by measuring
20         plasma 6-beta naltrexol levels:
     14. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claim 9 or 10 wherein the third layer
           includes at least one sequestering polymer, and optionally includes. a sequestering
           polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive, a charge-neutralizing additive, or both,
           wherein the weight-by-weight ratio of sequestering polymer hydrophobicity
25         enhancing additive or charge-neutralizing additive to the sequestering polymer in the
           third layer is such that no more than approximately 10% of the antagonist is released
           from the composition in vivo following administration to a patient in the fed state.
     15. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims claim 9-14 wherein third layer
           comprises a sequestering polymer and a charge-neutralizing additive present at less
 30        than approximately 4% on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to the sequestering
            polymer.
                                                    82

      WO 2007/149438                                                           PCT/US2007/014282
    16. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 9-15 wherein the third layer
        comprises a sequestering polymer and a sequestering polymer hydrophobicity
        enhancing additive present at approximately a 1:1 ratio on a weight-by-weight basis
         with respect to the sequestering polymer.
 5  17. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 9-16 wherein the third layer
         comprises a sequestering polymer, a charge-neutralizing additive and a sequestering
         polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive wherein the charge-neutralizing additive
         is present at less than approximately 4% on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to
         the* sequestering polymer .and the sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing
10       additive is present at approximately a 1:1 'ratio on a weight-by-weight bisis with
         respect to the sequestering polymer.
    18. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 9-17 wherein the third layer
     - comprises the charge-neutralizing additive sodium lauryl sulfate at less than
          approximately 4% on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to the first sequestering
15        polymer.
     19. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 9-18 wherein the third layer
          comprises the sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive talc at
          approximately a 1:1 ratio on a weight-by-weight basis with respect to the sequestering
          polymer.
20   20. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 9-19 further comprising an
          osmotic pressure regulating agent within the first layer.
     21. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 20 wherein the osmotic pressure regulating
          agent is sodium chloride.
     22. A pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-21 further comprising a
25         sustained release carrier which imparts sustained release properties to the agonist.
     23. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 22 wherein the sustained release carrier is
           Eudragit L100-55.
     24. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist in direct contact with a seal
           coat, an agonist in direct contact with the seal coat and a sequestering polymer but not
 30        the antagonist, wherein the antagonist and agonist are present within a single
           multilayer pharmaceutical unit.
                                                     83

      WO 2007/149438                                                          PCT/US2007/014282
    25. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical dosing unit consisting
         essentially of a multilayer bead comprising an antagonist and an agonist that are not
         in direct contact with one another.
    26. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a plurality of pharmaceutically active units
 5       wherein each unit comprises an antagonist, an agonist, a seal coat, and a sequestering
         polymer wherein the antagonist and the agonist are not in direct contact with one
         another.
    27. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically inert support material,
          an antagonist in direct contact with the support ijiat ial; a seal coat in direct contact
10       with the antagonist and an agonist, and a sequestering polymer in direct contact with
          the agonist.
     28. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antagonist indirectly and fixably bound
          to an agonist such that physical disruption of the intact dosage form causes the
          antagonist and agonist to be admixed together.
15.  29. A-pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 2-24 and 26 wherein a charge
          neutralizing additive is in admixture with the sequestering polymer in an amount
           sufficient to decrease the amount of antagonist released from the composition in vivo.
     30. A pharmaceutical composition of claim 29 wherein the charge-neutralizing additive is
           sodium lauryl sulfate.
20   31. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31 wherein the amount of charge
           neutralizing additive relative to the amount of sequestering polymer on a weight-by
           weight basis is approximately 1%, approximately 1.5%, approximately 2%,
           approximately 2.5%, approximately 3%, approximately 3.5%, approximately 4%,
           approximately 4.5%, approximately 5%, approximately 5.5%, approximately 1-2%,
25         approximately 2-3%, approximately 3-4% or approximately 4-5%.
      32. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31 wherein the wherein the amount of
           charge-neutralizing additive relative to the amount of sequestering polymer is
           approximately 1 to approximately 3%.
      33. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31 wherein the wherein the amount of
 30        charge-neutralizing additive relative to the amount of sequestering polymer is
           approximately 3.2%.
                                                    84

    WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    34. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31 wherein .the wherein the amount of
        charge-neutralizing additive relative to the amount of sequestering polymer is.
        approximately 3.4%.
   35. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-34 further comprising a
 5      sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive in an amount sufficient to
        decrease the amount of antagonist released from the composition in vivo.
   36. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 35 wherein *sequestering polymer
        hydrophobicity-enhancing additive is present at greater than approximately 66% and
        less than approximately 150% of the amount of sequestering polymer on a weight-by
10      weight basis.
   37. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 35 ~wherein sequestering polymer
        hydrophobicity-enhancing additive is present at approximately the same amount as
        the sequestering polymer on a weight-by-weight basis.
   38. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 35-37 wherein the sequestering
15      polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive is talc.
   39. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 2-24 and 26 wherein both a
        charge-neutralizing additive and a sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing
        additive -are present in an amount sufficient to decrease the amount of antagonist
       released from the 'composition in vivo.
20 40. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-39 wherein the sequestering
       polymer comprises Eudragit RS.
   41. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-40 wherein the agonist is in a
       controlled-release form.
   42. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 41 wherein the agonist is in contact with a
25     sequestering polymer.
   43. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-42 wherein the antagonist is
       not substantially released in vivo following administration to a patient.
   44. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-42 wherein the antagonist is
       not substantially released in vivo following administered to a patient in the fed state.
30 45. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 43 or 44 wherein less than approximately
        10% of the antagonist is released.
                                                85

        WO 2007/149438                                                        PCT/US2007/014282
       46. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 43 or 44 wherein less than approximately
            5% of the antagonist is released.
      -47. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 43 or 44 wherein less than approximately
            3%of the antagonist is released.
    5  48. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 43 or 44 wherein release of the antagonist
            is determined by measuring plasma levels of naltrexone.
       49. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 43 or 44 wherein release of the antagonist
            is determined by measuring plasma levels of 6-beta-naltrexol.
       50. The pharmaceutical coiiposition -of any 6ne of claims'1 -49'wherein~ the antagonist is
  10        an opioid antagonist.
       51. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 50 wherein the opioid antagonist is selected
            from the group consisting of naltrexone, naloxone, nalmefene, -cyclazacine, and
            levallorphan.
      52. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 51 wherein the opioid antagonist is
-15         naltrexone.
      53. The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-52 wherein the agonist is an
           -opioid agonist.
      54. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 53 wherein the opioid agonist is selected
            from the group consisting         of morphine, hydromorphone,      hydrocodone and
 20        oxycodone.
   -  55. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 54 wherein the opioid agonist is morphine.
      56. A method for correlating the amount of naltrexone released from a pharmaceutical
           composition comprising naltrexone by measuring plasma levels of 6-beta-naltrexol.
      57. A method for measuring the amount of antagonist or derivative thereof in a biological
 25        sample, the antagonist or derivative having been released from a pharmaceutical
           composition in vivo, the method comprising the USP paddle method at 37 0 C, 100
           rpm, but further comprising incubation in a buffer containing a surfactant.
      58. The method of claim 57 wherein the surfactant is Triton X-100.
      59. The method of claim 58 wherein the buffer is 0.2% Triton X-100, 0.2% sodium
 30        acetate, 0.002 N HCI, pH 5.5.
                                                   86

       WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
      60. The method of any one of claims 56-59 wherein the antagonist or derivative is
           naltrexone or 6-beta-naltrexol.
      61. The method of claim 60 wherein the derivative is 6-beta-naltrexol.
      62. A method foi preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising adhering an
  5        antagonist to a pharmaceutically inert support material, coating the antagonist with a
           seal coat, coating the seal coat with an agonist, and coating the agonist with a
           sequestering polymer.
      63. The method of claim 62 wherein the sequestering polymer provides a. controlled
          -release function with respect to the agonist.
 10   64. A method of manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-56
           wherein: an.antagonist is applied to an inert core material to form an inner layer; a
           seal coat is then applied upon the inner layer; and, a composition comprising an
           agonist is then applied upon the seal coat.
      65. The method of claim 64 wherein an additional layer containing a blocking agent is
 15        applied upon the active agent layer.
      66. The method of claim 64 wherein the core is water-soluble.
      67. A multiple layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an agonist and an antagonist
           within distinct layers of the composition, wherein at least 90% of the antagonist is
           sequestered for at least 24 hours following administration to a human being.
20    68. A multiple layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an agonist and an
           antagonist within distinct layers of the composition, wherein at least 95% of the
          antagonist is sequestered for at least 24 hours following administration to a human
          being.
     69. The composition of either of claims 67 or 68 wherein the antagonist is an opioid
25        antagonist.
     70. The composition of claim 69 wherein the antagonist is selected from the group
          consisting of naltrexone, naloxone, nalmefene, cyclazacine, levallorphan, derivatives
          or complexes thereofand pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
     71. The composition of claim 70 wherein the antagonist is naltrexone.
30  .72. The composition of either of claims 67 or 68 wherein the agonist is an opioid.
                                                    87

     WO 2007/149438                                                         PCT/US2007/014282
    73. The composition of claim 72 wherein the opioid is selected from the group consisting
        of alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine,. anileridine, benzylmorphine, bezitramide,
        buprenorphine,    butorphanol,   clonitazene,   codeine,  cyclazocine,   desomorphine,
        dextromoramide,      dezocine,    diampromide,     dihydrocodeine,-   dihydroetorphine,
  5      dihydromorphine, dimenoxadol, dimepheptanol,. dimethylthiambutene, dioxaphetyl
        butyrate,    dipipanone,     eptazocine,     ethoheptazine,   ethylinethylthiambutene,
        ethylmorphine,      etonitazene,     etorphine,   fentanyl,    heroin,    hydrocodone,
        hydromorphone,      hydroxypethidine,    isomethadone,   ketobemidone,     levallorphan,
        levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofentanil, meperidine, meptazinol, metazocine,
 10     methadone, metopon, morphine, myrophine, nalbuphine, narceine, :nicomorphine,
        norlevorphanol, normethadone,        nalorphine, normorphine,    norpipanone, opium,
        oxycodone, oxymorphone, papaveretum, pentazocine, phenadoxone, phenazocine,
        phenomorphan, phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide, .propheptazine,' promedol,
        properidine, propiram, propoxyphene, sufentanil, tramadol, tilidine, derivatives
 15     thereof, complexes thereof, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
    74. The composition of claim 73 wherein the agonist is morphine.
    75. The composition of either of claims 67 or 68 wherein the antagonist is an opioid
        antagonist and the agonist is an opioid.
    76. The composition of claim 75 wherein the antagonist is naltrexone and the a'gonist is
20      morphine.
    77. A pharmaceutical composition comprising naltrexone within a sequestering- subunit
        and morphine in contact with the subunit but not the naltrexone, wherein
        administration of the composition to a human being results in the release of
        substantially all of the morphine from the composition but less than 10% of the
25      naltrexone from the composition within 24 hours of administration.
    78. A pharmaceutical composition comprising naltrexone within a sequestering subunit
        and morphine in contact with the subunit but not -the naltrexone, Wherein
        administration of the composition to a human being results in the release of
        substantially all of the morphine from the composition but less than 5% -of the
30      naltrexone from-the composition within 24 hours of administration.
                                                  88

 WO 2007/149438                                                     PCT/US2007/014282
79. The pharmaceutical composition of either of claims 77 or 78 wherein naltrexone
    release is determined by measuring the amount of 6-beta-naltrexone in the plasma of
    the human being.
                                            89

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
