                   METHODS FOR EFFECTIVELY AND
           RAPIDLY DESENSITIZING ALLERGIC PATIENTS
                            Abstract of the Invention
        Methods and compositions for delivering antigens to the lymphatic
system in doses that desensitize patients to future exposure to antigens have
been developed. Rapid desensitization is achieved by introducing small
quantities of antigen into the lymphatic system. In preferred embodiments, the
compositions are administered to yield therapeutically effective levels of
antigen within the lymph, where macrophages reside in the greatest
concentration, by intradermal administration, using for example, microneedles
or microparticles, oral administration, using for example, enteric coated
capsules or tablets, or autologous transfusion. In some embodiments, the
methods and compositions for delivering antigens orally achieve uptake by the
Peyer's patches of the small intestines.

                   METHODS FOR EFFECTIVELY AND
          RAPIDLY DESENSITIZING ALLERGIC PATIENTS
                   Cross-Reference to Related Application
         This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/529,479 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on
August 31, 2011, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
                             Field of the Invention
         The present invention is generally in the field of compositions to
induce tolerance to allergens.
                         Background of the Invention
         Fifty-five percent of people in the United States test positive to one
or more allergens. According to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation,
allergies are the fifth most common cause of chronic disease in the United
States and third in children. Approximately ten million Americans are
allergic to cat dander. Approximately seven percent of allergy sufferers
have skin allergies, six percent have dietary allergies, and four percent have
insect allergies as of 2007.
         Allergen immunotherapy, also known as allergy shots, is a form of
long-term treatment that decreases symptoms for many people with allergic
rhinitis, allergic asthma, conjunctivitis (eye allergy) or stinging insect
allergy. Allergy shots decrease sensitivity to allergens and often lead to
lasting relief of allergy symptoms even after treatment is stopped. This
makes it a cost-effective, beneficial treatment approach for many people.
         Allergy shots work like a vaccine. The body responds to injected
amounts of a particular allergen, given in gradually increasing doses, by
developing immunity or tolerance to the allergen by producing
immunoglobulin G ("IgG") instead of IgE. Allergy shots are not used to
treat food allergies. The best option for people with food allergies is to
strictly avoid that food.
         There are two phases:
         Build-up phase. This involves receiving injections with increasing
amounts of the allergens about one to two times per week. The length of
this phase depends upon how often the injections are received, but
                                         1

generally ranges from three to six months.
        Maintenance phase. This begins once the effective dose is reached.
The effective maintenance dose depends on the level of allergen sensitivity
and the response to the build-up phase. During the maintenance phase,
there will be longer periods of time between treatments, ranging from two
to four weeks. Symptoms may decrease during the build-up phase, but it
may take as long as 12 months on the maintenance dose to notice an
improvement. If allergy shots are successful, maintenance treatment is
generally continued for three to five years.    Allergy shots have shown to
decrease symptoms of many allergies. It can prevent the development of
new allergies, and in children it can prevent the progression of allergic
disease from allergic rhinitis to asthma. The effectiveness of allergy shots
appears to be related to the length of the treatment program as well as the
dose of the allergen. Some people experience lasting relief from allergy
symptoms, while others may relapse after discontinuing allergy shots.
        Allergy is regarded as a Th2 weighted imbalance, and cytokines
produced by Th2 lymphocytes, including interleukins 4, 5, and 13, have
been associated with the promotion of IgE and eosinophilic responses in
atopy. Berger, BMJ, 321:424.1 (2000). Ways to redirect allergic Th2
responses in favor of ThI responses should be beneficial in reducing
incidences of allergic reactions.
        In summary, better, and less invasive, means for inducing tolerance
to allergens is needed. Rapid, effective desensitization to allergens is a
significant unmet medical need that would alleviate a tremendous burden of
chronic patient suffering.
        It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide methods
and compositions to induce tolerance to allergens.
                          Summary of the Invention
        Methods and compositions for delivering antigens to the lymphatic
system in doses that desensitize patients to future exposure to antigens have
been developed. Rapid desensitization is achieved by introducing small
quantities of antigen into the lymphatic system. In preferred embodiments,
the compositions provide therapeutically effective levels of antigen within
the lymph, where macrophages reside in the greatest concentration. The
                                        2

compositions can be administered by intradermally, for example, via
microneedles or microparticles, orally, for example, via enteric coated
capsules or tablets, or by autologous transfusion.
         In some embodiments, the methods and compositions for delivering
antigens orally achieve uptake by the Peyer's patches of the small intestine.
In some embodiments, a population of macrophages exposed to antigen is
isolated in whole or fractionated blood for autologous transfusion into the
patient.
         In some embodiments compositions preferably increase
immunoglobulin G levels specific to the allergen without significantly
increasing the immunoglobulin E levels specific to the allergen. In other
embodiments, the compositions improve allergic desensitization as
measured by decreased Th2 response (for example, Th2-type cytokines)
and/or increase Th1 responses, for example, Thl-type cytokines.
                     Brief Description of the Drawings
         Figure 1 shows Coulter particle sizing data of ovalbumin-chitosan
microparticles for allergen desensitization.
                   Detailed Description of the Invention
I.       Definitions
         As used herein, "rapid desensitization" refers to increasing the
tolerance to one or a group of allergens more quickly than in the absence of
treatment.
         As used herein, the term "tolerance" refers to the level of allergic
response to a particular quantity of allergen.
         As used herein, the term "antigen" refers to a substance or
substances alone or in combination that when introduced into the lymphatic
system induces production of antibodies that bind to a fraction of the
molecule or molecules.
         As used herein, the term "allergen" refers to a substance that could
cause an allergic reaction in a patient.
         As used herein, the term "allergic reaction" refers to any untoward
response to an allergen.
         As used herein, "lymphatic system" refers to the network of lymph
containing vessels.
                                         3

         As used herein, the term "intradermal" refers to residing within the
dermal layer of skin or between the epidermal and dermal layers.
         As used herein, the term "microneedle" refers to a protrusion
capable of penetrating the human epidermis in which its largest axis is less
than three millimeters in length.
         As used herein, "sharp microneedle" refers to any microneedle that
is capable of penetrating the human epidermis.
         As used herein, the term "microparticle" refers to any shaped
particle that has at least one dimension less than one millimeter in size.
         As used herein, "autologous transfusion" refers to a whole or
fractionated blood sample returned to the patient from whom it was taken
by injection or intravenous infusion.
         As used herein, "equivalent circle diameter" refers to the diameter
of a circle having the same cross-sectional area as the object being
measured.
         As used herein, "reservoir-type delivery system" refers to
formulations containing one or multiple antigen-rich and antigen-poor
regions within each discrete element of the delivery system.
         As used herein, "matrix-type delivery system" refers to
formulations containing a random distribution of antigen within each
discrete element of the delivery system.
         As used herein, the term "biodegradable" refers to a class of
materials that undergo reductions in molecular weight upon introduction
into a cell-containing environment.
         As used herein, the term "bioadhesive" refers to a class of materials
that adheres to one or more biological substrates.
         As used herein, the term "adjuvant" refers to any agent that
increases the immunological response to an antigen.
         As used herein, the term "tip radius" refers to the radius of a circle
equivalent in cross-sectional area to the smallest aspect of a microstructure.
         As used herein, the term "micropillar" refers to any microstructure
that is longer than it is wide and mechanically supports another
microstructure.
                                        4

        As used herein, "enteric coating" refers to any material that can
protect an antigen from acidic degradation within the human stomach for a
sufficiently long period of time such that at least ten percent of the antigen
is delivered on average into the small intestines in an active form. As used
herein, "enteric protective polymer" refers to any polymer that protects an
antigen from acidic degradation within the human stomach for a
sufficiently long period of time such that at least ten percent of the antigen
is delivered on average into the small intestines in an active form.
        As used herein, the term "encapsulant" refers to any material that
encapsulates another substance.
        As used herein, "water soluble polymer" refers to a class of
polymers for which more than ten percent of the mass of the polymer enters
solution in a volume of water or aqueous fluid.
        As used herein, "pH sensitive polymer" refers to a class of polymers
that exhibit a pH dependent solubility profile.
        As used herein, "enzymatically degradable polymer" refers to a
class of polymers containing regions that are chemically altered in the
presence of one or more enzymes.
        As used herein, "enzyme cleavable polymer" refers to a class of
polymers enzymatically degraded to yield a decrease in molecular weight.
        As used herein, the term "peptide" refers to at least two of any
amino acid or amino acid derivative linked by a peptide bond.
        As used herein, the term "phlebotomy" refers to any means of
obtaining a blood sample from a patient.
        As used herein, the term "net charge altering agent" refers to any
compound that alters the net charge of a solution or suspension temporarily
or permanently.
                                      5

II.     Compositions
        A.       Allergens
        Clinically available allergens for inducing tolerance can be utilized.
Examples include peanut allergens, including, but not limited to peanut
flour, Arachis hypogaea 1 (Ara h 1), Arachis hypogaea 1 (Ara h2); cat
allergens, including but not limited to, Felis domesticus allergen 1-4 (Fel
D1, Fel D2, Fel D3, Fel D4), and cat IgA; house dust mite allergens,
including, but not limited to, Dermatophagoidespteronyssinus group 1 and
2 allergens (DER pl and DER p2); other house dust allergens, for example,
house dust endotoxin; pollen allergies, including, but not limited to Bet v
and Bet v2; bee sting allergens, for example, phospholipase A2 (PLA2)
one of the major bee venom allergen, wasp allergens; cockroach calyx,
penicillin, sulfonamides, salicylates, albumen, pollen, or their derivatives.
U.S. Patent No. 8,182,805 to Viskari, et al. discloses enteroviruses useful
for decreasing allergic sensitization, identified by their effect on regulatory
T-cells and/or Thl/Th2-balance and/or production of immunoregulatory
cytokines such as IL-10.
        B.       Formulations
        In certain embodiments, the antigen is delivered in solution. In
other embodiments, the antigen is delivered in suspension.
        Microparticles
        In those embodiments in which the antigen is delivered in
suspension, the antigen is formulated such that at least seventy percent of
the population of microparticles, more preferably at least eighty percent of
the population, and most preferably at lest ninety percent of the population
of microspheres is small enough to phagocytosed by macrophages or
dendritic cells, and too large to be endocytosed in quantities sufficient to
cause an untoward allergic response by other cell types. In specific
embodiments, the microparticles of antigen are in an appropriate size range
for macrophage engulfment, i.e., the microparticles have a mean equivalent
circle diameter of between one and ten, more preferably between two and
nine, and most preferably between three and six microns.
        In certain embodiments, the mean diameter of the population of
microparticles, in the case of irregularly shaped microparticles diameter
                                        6

refers to the diameter of a circle of equivalent cross-sectional area, is
between two and nine microns, more preferably between three and eight
microns, and most preferably between three and six microns. In certain
embodiments, the at least seventy percent of, more preferably eighty
percent of, and most preferably ninety percent of the diameter, or
equivalent circle diameter, distribution within the population of
administered antigen microspheres is within the range of one to ten
microns, more preferably two to nine microns, and most preferably three to
six microns.
         In some embodiments, microparticles of antigen encapsulated in a
polymer are administered orally as a reservoir-type or matrix-type delivery
system. The microparticles are fabricated by one or a combination of the
following techniques including, but not limited to, emulsion solvent
evaporation, double emulsion solvent evaporation, ionic gelation,
coacervation, membrane emulsification, supercritical fluid
microencapsulation, spray drying, and hot melt microencapsulation.
         In some embodiments the antigen is microencapsulated within a
water-soluble polymer, or combination thereof, for example, polyvinyl
alcohol, methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, starch, dextran,
albumin, and sodium alginate. In some embodiments, the antigen is
microencapsulated in a pH-sensitive polymer that is stored at one pH and
dissolves after entering the intradermal environment such as any of the
following, or combination thereof, such as a polymer blend of acrylic acid
and methacrylic acid, modified collagen, and modified crosslinked and un
crosslinked polyacrylic acids. In some embodiments, the antigen is
encapsulated in a biodegradable polymer, or combination thereof, such as a
polyhydroxyacid like polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, or polylactic-co
glycolic acid, polyanhydride, polyorthoester, polyphosphate ester,
polycaprolactone, and polyglycerol sebacate. In some embodiments, the
antigen is encapsulated in a bioadhesive polymer, or combination thereof,
such as polyfumaric-co-sebacic anhydride, chitosan, polyethylene maleic
anhydride, catechol functional polymer, and lectin. In some embodiments,
the antigen is encapsulated in an enzymatically cleavable polymer that is
sensitive to degradation by macrophage lysozomal enzymes. In some
                                        7

embodiments, the enzymatically cleavable polymer contains peptide
sequences cleaved by enzymes found in lysozomes, such as acid hydrolases
and serine proteases. In some embodiments, the antigen is encapsulated in
hydrogel polymers such as calcium alginate, chitosan and chitosan
derivative complexes (e.g. alginate-chitosan), polyethylene glycol, and
poly-2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate. In some embodiments, the antigen is
microencapsulated in polyamino acids or combinations thereof such as
polylysine, polyarginine, polyaspartate, and polyglutamate.
        In some embodiments, the polymer microparticles containing
antigen are administered within an enterically coated capsule or tablet. In
some embodiments, the polymer encapsulant is an enteric protective
polymer such as one or a combination of the following including, but not
limited to, Eudragit*L100, Eudragito L100-55, Eudragit® S10, and
modified collagen. In some embodiments, the antigen is microencapsulated
within a water-soluble polymer. In some embodiments, the antigen is
microencapsulated in a pH-sensitive polymer that is stored at one pH and
dissolves after entering the intradermal environment such as any
combination of the following including, but not limited to polymer blends
of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, modified collagen, and modified
crosslinked and un-crosslinked polyacrylic acids. In some embodiments,
the antigen is encapsulated in a biodegradable polymer such as any
combination of the following including, but not limited to, polylactic acid.,
polyglycolic acid, polylactic-co-glycolic acid, polyanhydrides,
polyorthoesters, polyphosphate esters, polycaprolactone, and polyglycerol
sebacate. In some embodiments, the antigen is encapsulated in a
bioadhesive polymer such as any combination of the following including,
but not limited to polyfumaric-co-sebacic anhydride, chitosan, polyethylene
maleic anhydride, catechol functional polymers, and lectins. In some
embodiments, the antigen is encapsulated in an enzymatically cleavable
polymer that is sensitive to degradation by macrophage lysozomal
enzymes. In some embodiments, the enzymatically cleavable polymer
contains peptide sequences cleaved by enzymes found in lysozomes, such
as any combination of the following including, but not limited to acid
hydrolases and serine proteases.
                                       8

        In some embodiments, release of the antigen from microcapsules
can be accomplished using an encapsulating material that is specifically
degraded by an enzyme or group of enzymes present within the phagocytic
vesicles of a macrophage (e.g. phagosomes and phagolysosomes). In some
embodiments, the antigen containing microparticles exhibit degradation
kinetics tailored to release antigen once the macrophages leave the systemic
circulation on average and return to the lymph after injection, in some
embodiments microparticles release less than twenty five percent of the
antigen within two days after injection, more preferably less than fifteen
percent of the antigen within two days after injection, and most preferably
less than ten percent of the antigen within two days after injection.
        In a specific embodiment, the encapsulating material can contain
chitosan or a chitosan derivative (e.g. alginate-chitosan). Chitosan and
chitosan-derivatives are substrates for degradation by lysozyme within the
macrophage cell body. Lysozyme is present in highest concentrations
within the phagolysosome, where the antigen would be released from
microcapsules over time by degradation of the beta 1,4-beta-linkages along
the backbone of the chitosan or chitosan-derivative polysaccharide after
phagocytosis of microcapsules. These macrophages subsequently release
some of the free antigen within the lymph.
        Hydrogels
        In some embodiments, the antigen is encapsulated in hydrogel
polymers such as any combination of the following including, but not
limited to, calcium alginate, polyethylene glycol, and poly-2-hydroxyethyl
methacrylate. In some embodiments, the antigen is microencapsulated in
polyamino acids. In some embodiments, the antigen is encapsulated within
more than one of the above polymers from a single or multiple groupings
either physically mixed throughout each microparticle, or forming a core
shell morphology. In some embodiments the antigen is delivered along with
an adjuvant excipients. In some embodiments, the adjuvant is a net charge
altering agent such as, but not limited to one or a combination of charged
amino acids including lysine, arginine, histidine, glutamate, and aspartate.
        C.      Adjuvants
                                       9

        Uptake by macrophages can be encouraged by decorating the
surface of the microcapsules with "scavenger receptors", including, but not
limited to, SR-Al and SR-All or CD36, involved in triggering phagocytosis
of apoptotic cells. In another embodiment, functionalizing the microcapsule
surface with an antibody, antibody derivative, antibody fragment, or
aptamer to a macrophage surface protein, e.g. F4/80, Macrosialin (FA- 11),
Sialoadhesin (SER-4, 3D6), Mannose receptors, or Dectin-1, can be used to
enhance phagocytotic uptake of microcapsules.
        In some embodiments the antigen is delivered along with an
adjuvant. Adjuvants include, but are not limited to, highly charged
polymers such as chitosan and polylysine.
        In some embodiments, a net charge altering agent is incorporated
into the allergen suspension or solution such as, but not limited to one or a
combination of, charged amino acids including lysine, arginine, histidine,
glutamate, and aspartate, to encourage macrophage engulfment.
III.    Methods of Administration and Devices for Use Thereof
        A.       Individuals to be Treated and Treatment Regime
        Patients to be Treated
        Individuals to be treated include any patient who suffers from
sensitivity to an allergen. In specific embodiments patients may suffer from
any or a combination of food allergies, environmental allergies, dust mite
allergy, insect bite or sting allergies, and pet allergies.
        Therapeutic Regimen
        Any one or a combination of the above treatment modalities are
administered to a patient once a month for three months, more preferably
twice a month for three to six months, and most preferably every fourteen
days for a period of forty-two days. In some embodiments, the therapeutic
regimen increases the immunoglobulin G levels within the patient, without
significantly increasing the immunoglobulin E levels to induce allergen
tolerance. In other embodiments, the compositions improve allergic
desensitization as measured by decreased Th2 response (for example, Th2
type cytokines) and/or increase Thl responses, for example, Thl-type
cytokines. For example, the therapeutic regimen can reduce Th2 and/or
increase Th1 responses. In these embodiments, the treatment regimen
                                         10

increases Thl- response, for example, by increasing interferon gamma
and/or interleukin 10 and/or 12 production. Gerada, et al., Lancet,
13:355(9216):1680-3 (2000). The treatment regimen can reduce Th2-type
cytokines, for example interleukins 4, 5, and 13, which have been
associated with the promotion of IgE and eosinophilic responses in atopy.
Berger, BMJ, 321:424.1 (2000).
         B.      Routes of Administration
         Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are utilized as appropriate
for the specific route of administration. For example, for injection, the
formulation can be prepared in sterile saline, water or phosphate buffered
saline. Alternatively, hydrogels or dry particles may be injected, implanted
or inserted with microneedles.
         IntraderinalDelivery using Microneedles
         In a preferred embodiment, antigen is delivered by high-pressure
intradermal injection through hollow microneedles. The high pressure is
necessary to create a pocket in the dermis. High-pressure intradermal drug
delivery is known in the art and described for example, in Gupta, et al.,
Biomateials, 32:6823-6831 (2011) and U.S. Publication No. 20090157041,
the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. In some
embodiments, one or a plurality of solid microneedles is used to deliver the
antigen intradermally. In these embodiments, the antigen is formulated as a
matrix-type or reservoir-type delivery system within a biodegradable
polymer microstructure capable of penetrating the epidermis when
supported by a biodegradable or non-degradable backing support layer. To
achieve epidermal penetration at minimal force, the tip radius of the
microstructure is less than or approximately equal to twenty-five, more
preferably ten, and most preferably five microns.
         In these embodiments, the antigen is formulated as a matrix-type or
reservoir-type delivery system within a biodegradable polymer
microstructure capable of penetrating the epidermis when supported by a
biodegradable or non-degradable backing support layer. To achieve
epidermal penetration at minimal force, the tip radius of the microstructure
is less than or approximately equal to twenty-five, more preferably ten, and
most preferably five microns.
                                       11

        In specific embodiments, one or a combination of the following
techniques such as micromolding, wet etching, dry etching, and laser
cutting is used to fabricate the antigen into a biodegradable or water-soluble
polymer in a sharp microstructure. The sharp biodegradable polymer
microstructures are supported either by the same or a similar material, or a
non-degradable support such as an array of metallic micropillar supports.
When the device is placed into the skin, it penetrates the epidermis and
contacts or enters the dermis. Each individual microneedle is approximately
two and one half, more preferably less than one and one half, and most
preferably less than one millimeter in length. In certain embodiments, a
portion of or the entire biodegradable or water-soluble component of the
microneedle array containing the antigen remains within the dermis after
removal of the backing.
        To encourage phagocytosis by macrophages and dendritic cells, the
biodegradable or water-soluble portions remaining in the dermis have an
equivalent circle mean diameter of between one and ten, more preferably
between two and nine, and most preferably between three and six microns.
        In specific embodiments, one or a combination of the following
techniques such as micromolding, wet etching, dry etching, and laser
cutting is used to fabricate the antigen into a biodegradable or water-soluble
polymer in a sharp microstructure. The sharp biodegradable polymer
microstructures are supported either by the same or a similar material, or a
non-degradable support such as an array of metallic micropillar supports.
When the device is placed into the skin, it penetrates the epidermis and
contacts or enters the dermis. Each individual microneedle is approximately
two and one half, more preferably less than one and one half, and most
preferably less than one millimeter in length. In certain embodiments, a
portion of or the entire biodegradable or water-soluble component of the
microneedle array containing the antigen remains within the dermis after
removal of the backing.
        To encourage phagocytosis by macrophages and dendritic cells, the
biodegradable or water-soluble portions remaining in the dermis have an
equivalent circle mean diameter of between one and ten, more preferably
between two and nine, and most preferably between three and six microns.
                                       12

In some embodiments, a net charge altering agent is incorporated into the
allergen suspension or solution such as, but not limited to, one or a
combination of charged amino acids, including lysine, arginine, histidine,
glutamate, and aspartate, to encourage macrophage engulfment.
        Oral delivery
        In some embodiments, microparticles of antigen are delivered orally
in an enterically coated capsule or tablet.
        Autologous Infusion Therapy
        In some embodiments, microparticles of antigen or polymer
encapsulated antigen are delivered to macrophages recruited from blood of
the patient and then returned to the patient by injection or infusion. Whole
blood is obtained from the patient by phlebotomy. In some embodiments,
the macrophages are separated from the whole blood by plating on tissue
culture polystyrene or another material to which macrophages adhere.
Microparticles of antigen or polymer-encapsulated antigen are introduced
in suspension to the macrophages in an appropriate size range for
phagocytosis. After a period of time sufficient for the macrophages to
engulf a therapeutic quantity as part of an allergic desensitization regimen,
the autologous macrophages are re-introduced into the patient by injection
or intravenous infusion.
        A proposed mechanism is that macrophages, dendritic cells in the
skin, and Peyer's patches in the ileum will transport the particles into the
lymph, where the T and B cells can begin antibody production.
        A kit for this purpose could include heparinized vacuum collection
tubes containing antigen encapsulated in particulate form, a heat block for
incubation at physiological temperature (e.g. 37"C), a syringe-coupled filter
to separate the small, freely suspended microcapsules remaining after
incubation from the blood, and a resuspension buffer for injection of the
cells back into the patient. In one embodiment, the heating element is a
Peltier heating and cooling device; in another, the heating element is a
resistive heater. In one embodiment, the separation of macrophages from
freely suspended antigen microparticles occurs by size exclusion. In
another embodiment, the separation of macrophages from freely suspended
                                      13

antigen microparticles occurs based on differences in density between the
microparticles and the macrophages.
        The present invention will be further understood by the following
non-limiting examples.
Example 1:       Chitosan microparticles for antigen delivery
        Low molecular weight chitosan greater than 75 percent deacetylated
was dissolved in 1 percent aqueous glacial acetic acid to create a 5
milligram per milliliter aqueous chitosan solution. 9 milliliters of aqueous
1% ovalbumin, 0.1% sodium tripolyphosphate were added drop-wise into
18 milliliters of the 5 milligram per milliliter aqueous chitosan solution
while vortexing.
        The resultant microparticles were sized by Coulter particle size
analysis as shown in Figure 1. To isolate the population of microparticles
that are approximately 2 microns in apparent diameter, the resultant
population is filtered through a 1 micron filter to produce microparticles
suitable for allergic desensitization to ovalbumin.
        Modifications and variations of the present invention will be
obvious from the foregoing description and are intended to come within the
scope of the following claims.
                                        14

We claim:
1.      A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering one
or more antigens through hollow microneedles by application of high
pressure.
2.      The method of claim 1 wherein the antigen is one or a combination
of peanut flour, Arachis hypogaea 1 (Ara hI), Arachis hypogaea 2 (Ara h2),
Fel D1, Fel D2, Fel D3, Fel D4, cat IgA, DER pl, DER p2, Bet vI, Bet v2,
PLA2, bee sting allergen, wasp allergen, cockroach calyx, penicillin,
enteroviruses, sulfonamides, salicylates, albumen, pollen, house dust
endotoxin or their derivatives.
3.      A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering one
or more antigens in suspension or solution by application of high pressure.
4.      The method of claim I wherein the allergen is delivered as a
population of microparticles wherein at least seventy, more preferably
eighty, and most preferably ninety percent of the microparticles are one to
ten microns in equivalent circle diameter.
5.      The method of claim 1 wherein the allergen is delivered as a
population of microparticles having a mean equivalent circle diameter in
the range of one to ten microns, more preferably two to nine microns, most
preferably three to six microns.
6.      The method of claim 1 wherein the microparticles release less than
twenty five percent, more preferably less than fifteen percent, and most
preferably less than ten percent of the antigen within forty eight hours.
7.      The method of claim 1 comprising delivering one or more
microencapsulated antigens in solution intradermally through hollow
microneedles by application of high pressure.
8.      The method of claim 1 comprising delivering one or more
microencapsulated antigens in suspension intradermally through hollow
microneedles by application of high pressure.
9.      The method of claim I wherein the antigen is microencapsulated in
a polymer matrix or shell, wherein the polymer is water soluble, pH
                                      15

sensitive, biodegradable, bioadhesive, or cleaved by an enzyme or enzymes
found predominantly within the lysosomes of macrophages or dendritic
cells.
10.     The method of claim 9 wherein the polymer is one or a combination
of polyamino acids.
11.     A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering one
or more antigens in biodegradable or water soluble polymer barbs delivered
intradermally via a solid microneedle array, wherein the antigen-containing
barbs are attached to a backing and supporting microstructure.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein at least approximately seventy
percent, more preferably eighty percent, most preferably ninety percent or
the antigen-containing barbs remain in the dermis after the backing and
supporting microstructures have been removed.
13.     The method of claim II wherein at least seventy percent, more
preferably eighty percent, most preferably ninety percent of the population
of barbs that remain in the dermis after application have an equivalent
circle diameter between one and ten microns, more preferably between two
and nine microns, and most preferably between three and six microns.
14.     Method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering one or
more antigens as a dry powder or in suspension orally within an enterically
coated capsule or tablet.
15.     Method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by exposing
macrophages acquired from a patient in whole or fractionated blood to
antigen microparticles then reintroduced into the patient by injection or
intravenous infusion.
16.     Method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by exposing
macrophages acquired from a patient in whole or fractionated blood to
microencapsulated antigen microparticles then reintroduced into the patient
by injection or intravenous infusion.
17.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein a net charge
altering agent is added to promote macrophage engulfment.
                                      16

18.     The method of claim 17 wherein the net charge altering agent is one
or a combination of charged amino acids.
19.     A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering the
antigen to the lymphatic system of any of any one of claims I to 18
comprising administering the allergen once every fourteen days for a period
of 168 days, more preferably 84 days, and most preferably 42 days, or once
monthly for a period of three to twelve months, more preferably three to six
months, and most preferably three months.
20.     A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering the
antigen to the lympatic system of any one of claims 1 to 19 comprising
administering the allergen in a single dose or using a controlled release
formulation that achieves the therapeutic benefit of the multiple dose
scheme.
21.     A method for desensitizing patients to an allergen by delivering the
antigen to the lymphatic system by the method of any one of claims 1 to 20
wherein there is a more than a three fold increase in immunoglobulin G
levels without increasing immunoglobulin E levels by more than two fold.
22.     A composition for use in the any of the methods of claims I to 21.
                                      17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
