ABSTRACT
A fencing panel comprising a core of hardened foam and having an upper
edge and a lower edge, at least one elongate support member in the core and
extending at least from adjacent the upper end of the core to adjacent the
lower end of the core, and at least one footing member extending from the
lower edge of the core.

                5/7
      3 -I30
                             36
                             2
                             35
                             31
                                21
                        37
           FIG 10
                    42          21
                                22
                                23
                      -          24
180an                            20
                           7
           FIG 11

                                 AUSTRALIA
                             PATENTS ACT 1990
                       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
           A BASE BLOCK FOR SUPPORTING A PANEL
The following statement is a description of the invention:

                                           1
               A BASE BLOCK FOR SUPPORTING A PANEL
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention is directed to a base block to support a vertical panel.
 5 The panel may comprise a fence panel or panels, a garden wall, a pool barrier
   and the like. The base block can function as a retaining wall.
    BACKGROUND ART
10 Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to
   be taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form
   part of the common general knowledge.
   Vertical panels comprising hardened foam rendered and painted to provide an
15 aesthetic appearance are popular as garden wall panels, property boundary
   fences, and pool fencing.
   These panels need to be securely fixed in place and this can be achieved by
   pouring a concrete footing to which the panels are attached. One technique
20 has steel posts/rods extending from the bottom of the panel which pass into
   the footing prior to the concrete pour.
   For uneven or sloping ground, this can present a problem as the panels are
   usually rectangular. Infill panels may be required below the bottom of the
25 panel to provide a smooth finish. Sometimes a retaining wall is required on top
   of which the panel sits. Building a retaining wall for the panel can be a slow
   and time consuming process.
   A disadvantage with known panels attached to a retaining wall is the lack of
30 aesthetic appearance. That is, the retaining wall is visually quite separate from
   the panel. There would be an advantage to provide a retaining wall to which a
   panel can be attached and which can provide a smooth flush appearance
   when finished off.

                                             2
   It is an object of the invention to provide a base block to which a panel can be
   attached and which can overcome at least some of the abovementioned
   disadvantages.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   In one form, the invention comprises at least one base block panel adapted to
   support a panel and adapted to be supported by a foundation, the base block
10 panel comprising wall members attached relative to each other to define a
   void adapted to receive concrete.
   The base block panel is typically of special design. The base block panel may
   be substantially hollow to allow for concrete and steel to the required height.
15 The base block panel may be manufactured off site in suitable lengths and
   heights and then fixed into position. The base block panel may comprise a
   panel like block having a length of between 1-6 meters, a height of between
   0.5-2meters, and a thickness of between 100-600mm,               although these
   dimensions may vary to suit. A number of base block panels may be fixed into
20 position to provide a retaining wall of suitable length. The base block panels
   are suitably supported on top of concrete foundations. The base block panel is
   named due to its panel like configuration.
   The wall members may be made from any suitable material or materials which
25 can at least partially withstand the lateral forces of concrete/grout poured into
   the base block panel. The wall members may comprise an expanded foam
   material which can make the block a relatively lightweight structure. The foam
   material may be coated or rendered to provide a tough outer skin. The wall
   members may comprise a building board.
30
   To enable the base block panel to have a relatively thin design and a relatively
   low weight, the wall members, or at least the side wall members may be
   supported against bowing during the concrete pour. A support means may
   therefore be provided. The support means may comprise reinforcement

                                            3
   members which can be temporarily fixed to the wall members to provide
   temporary reinforcement and then removed. The reinforcement members may
   comprise timber formwork such as boards/planks etc.
 5  A fixing means may be provided to fix the support means. The fixing means
   may comprise one or more bolts extendible through the block to fix one or
   more support means to the block. Clamps or other fixing means are also
   envisaged.
10 The support means may also comprise a base support means which can
   support the lower base part of the base block panel against bowing. The base
   support means may comprise a rebate in the footing to accommodate a
   bottom or base part of the block. A non-limiting example of a rebate is
   illustrated in figure 2.
15
   The internal void in the base block panel may have a width of between 40
   100mm. the thickness of the wall members may be between 40-150mm. The
   internal void may have substantially planar walls defining the void, see for
   instance figure 8 as a non-limiting example, or may have non planar walls
20 see for instance figure 9 as a non-limiting example.
   If a fencing panel is to be fixed to the top of the base block panel, the fencing
   panel may have a modified design to facilitate filling of the base block and to
   provide additional strength to the fencing panel. In this form, the invention
25 comprises a fencing panel particularly suited for fixing to the top of a base
   block, the fencing panel being generally as described above but additionally
   comprising at least one passageway extending from a top wall of the panel to
   a bottom wall of the panel to allow cement to be pumped through the
   passageway and into the base block. Suitably, the passageway is adapted to
30 be at least partially filled with cement to provide additional strength to the
   panel.
   In another form, the invention comprises a method to form a retaining wall
   containing at least one fixed fencing panel on top of the retaining wall, the

                                             4
   method comprising providing at least one base block panel which is be
   substantially hollow to allow for concrete and steel to the required height,
   positioning a fencing panel on top of the base block panel, the fencing panel
   comprising hardened foam containing embedded support members, the panel
 5 containing at least one passageway extending from a top wall of the panel to
   a bottom wall of the panel to allow cement to be pumped through the
   passageway, the panel containing at least one extending footing member
   which extends into the hollow of the base block panel, and, pouring/pumping
   concrete or other suitable settable material through the passageway to fill the
10 hollow in the base block panel and then to at least partially fill the
   passageway.
   The base block panel is suitably placed on a foundation. The foundation
   suitably has a rebate to support the lower part of the base block panel.
15
   The fencing panel can comprise part of a fence. The fence may comprise a
   dividing fence, a pool fence, a decorative wall, a partition, or any other type of
   dividing wall, privacy wall and the like, and is typically non load bearing.
20 The fencing panel may have any suitable shape and size. It is expected that a
   common shape for the panel will be substantially rectangular. However, there
   may be circumstances where it is convenient for the panel to have a shape
   other than substantially rectangular. The size of the fencing panel can vary
   however it is envisaged that the size will be such that the panel can be
25 conveniently handled either manually or using a crane or other mechanised
   equipment. As an example, the fencing panel may be substantially rectangular
   and may have a length of between 0.5-6 m and a height of between 0.5-3 m
   although this can vary .The thickness of the panel can also vary but it is
   considered that a suitable thickness will be between 100-500 mm and
30 preferably between 150-300 mm and most preferably about 200 mm.
   It should be appreciated that no unnecessary limitation should be placed on
   the invention merely by exemplification of certain shapes and sizes.

                                           5
   The panel comprises a core of hardened foam. A suitable core material
   comprises expanded polystyrene which is also known as EPS. The expanded
   polystyrene is a commercially available product and typically comprises at
   least three grades being a low density expanded polystyrene (SL grade], a
 5 medium density (M grade] expanded polystyrene and a higher density (H
   grade] expanded polystyrene. The M grade EPS is considered a suitable but
   non-limiting example of a core material. The core may comprise different
   types and/or grades of hardened foam. Preferably the EPS has been treated
   with pest repellant and also is fire resistant. The core may comprise parts or
10 sections which are joined to form the core. The core may comprise a layered
   or laminate structure. The core may comprise voids or cavities if considered
   suitable. It is considered convenient that the core is of substantially uniform
   thickness, but there may be instances where it is useful for the core to have a
   non-uniform     thickness.  For  instance the     core  may   have   a tapered
15 configuration. The core will suitably have a substantially flat outer surface
   especially if a neat seamless finished look is required for the fence. However
   the core may have other configurations such as a corrugated configuration, a
   grooved configuration and the like. It is also envisaged that there may be
   circumstances where the core does not consist entirely of the foam material
20 and may contain areas of other materials which may not comprise expanded
   material. However, it is considered most convenient that the panel is made
   substantially of the expanded material.
   The core contains at least one embedded support member. Suitably, the core
25 has an upper edge and a lower edge and the at least one support member
   extends from at least adjacent the upper edge of the core to at least adjacent
   the lower edge of the core. Preferably, a plurality of support members is
   provided in the core with the number of support members depending, inter
   alia, on the size and shape of the core. The support members may be in a
30 spaced apart side-by-side orientation in the core and the spacing between
   adjacent support members may vary at least between 100-500 mm. Of
   course, no unnecessary limitation should be placed on the invention merely by
   exemplification of certain spacings.

                                               6
   Suitably, at least some of the support members extend below a lower edge of
   the core. Preferably all, or most, of the support members extend from a lower
   edge of the core. The extending part of the support members may comprise at
   least part of the footing members.
 5
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
   discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
10 information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
   Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding
   Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
   reference to a number of drawings as follows:
   Figure 1.         Illustrates a fence
15 Figure 2.         Illustrates a retaining wall in the form of at least one base
                     block panel on which a fence panel can be fixed.
   Figure 3.         Illustrates the fence panel positioned above the retaining wall.
   Figure 4.         Illustrates a cut away view of the fence panel in place on top
                     of the retaining wall with concrete poured in place.
20 Figures 5-7.      Illustrate views of temporary formwork to hold the base block
                     panel    panel    against   unwanted  deformation    during the
                     concrete pour.
   Figures 8-9.      Illustrate two different internal hollow configurations of the
                     base block panel.
25 Figures 10-11.    Illustrate a top fence EPS panel and the panel on a base
                     block panel.
   Figures 11-13. Illustrate a base block panel by itself.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
30 Figure 1 is an illustrative example only of a finished fence which can be
   supported by a base block panel in a manner whereby the base block panel is
   not noticed and becomes part of the overall fence design. Thus in the overall
   design, the lower part (the base block panel 54) is load bearing and the upper

                                             7
   part (the fence 10) is typically non-load bearing, and the two parts are
   designed and finished off to become indistinguishable.
   Reference will now be had to figures 2-4 which illustrate an embodiment of the
   invention where the fencing panel is fixed on top of a retaining wall of special
 5 design. The retaining wall has a special design to make it more convenient to
   install, quick to install, a more lightweight system and requiring less fil (e.g.
   concrete).
   The fencing panel (see figure 3) is provided with at least one passageway 51
   which extends entirely through the panel from a top wall 52 to a bottom wall
10 53. These passageways are hollow sections (also sometimes called droppers)
   to allow cement to be pumped in to fill the retaining wall which is below the
   panel and which can then fill the passageways 51 to provide extra strength to
   the fencing panel.
   The retaining wall comprises at least one hollow base block panel 54. Base
15 block panel 54 can be of any suitable length width and height and in the
   particular embodiment has a length of about 2.5 m, a height of about 1.2 m,
   and a thickness of about 200 mm. The base block panel comprises a pair of
   opposed side wall members 55 which are made of polystyrene, or comprise
   building panels or other suitable material. These side wall members 55 have a
20 thickness of approximately 70 mm and as the panel has a width of about 200
   mm, these results in the panel being substantially hollow with the internal void
   having a width of about 60 mm.
   The base wall panel 54 can be manufactured off site and transported in a
   relatively easy and convenient manner. If the base wall panel 54 is to be a
25 retaining wall, it will be supported on a footing 56 typically dug into the ground.
   Footing 56 can be of any suitable dimension depending on the load
   characteristics. The footing will contain steel reinforcement 57 as is usual. As
   well, vertical steel starters 58 are provided.
   The footing has a particular design which is that a rebate 59 is formed in the
30 top of the footing and this can be done by any convenient means such as by

                                           8
   using formwork. The rebate typically has a depth of between 10-50 mm and a
   width which is sufficient to accommodate the bottom of the base wall panel 54
   into the rebate. This rebate can also be called the "base support means" and
   functions to support the lower edge of each side wall member 55 against
 5 bowing as concrete is poured into the base wall panel 54.
   To position the base block panel, a trench is initially dug into the ground and
   steel is placed into the trench and vertically extending starters 58 are
   positioned in place. Concrete is then poured into the trench and over the steel
   to provide a footing having the required engineering strength requirements.
10 Once the footing has cured sufficiently, the base block panel 54 can be placed
   on top of the footing with the lower end of panel 54 locating within the rebate
   59. The steel starters 58 extend into the hollow inside panel 54.
   Once base block panel 54 is in position, the fencing panel 50 can be placed
   on top of base block panel 54 in the manner illustrated at least in figure 3 and
15 figure 4. The fencing panel 50 has lower extending footing members 60 which
   extend into the hollow inside panel 54. Once fencing panel 50 is in place,
   concrete/grout or other suitable material can be pumped into the hollows.
   Specifically, a concrete pump hose is pushed through the passageway 51 in
   fencing panel 50 such that the end of the hose is in the hollow of base block
20 panel 54. Concrete can then be pumped through the hose to fill the base
   block panel. Vibrators can be used as is normal. The hose can be positioned
   into all the passageways 51 to ensure that the base block panel is completely
   filled with concrete. Each passageway 51 can also be filled with the same
   concrete/suitable material. The finished product is illustrated in section view in
25 figure 4.
   To further assist in supporting the side wall members 55 of base block panel
   54, separate temporary formwork can be provided an example of which is
   illustrated in figures 5-7. The formwork comprises timber planks 61 which can
   be positioned on each side of base block panel 54 prior to the concrete pour.
30 The planks are held together by a fixing means which, in the particular
   embodiment comprises long bolts 62 which extend through and across the
   base block panel 54 to connect a pair of opposed planks 61. A small tube or

                                             9
   pipe 63 can initially be positioned in the base block panel 54 (see particularly
   figure 7) and prior to the concrete pour and the long bolts 62 can pass through
   a respective tube 63 such that the bolts can be removed after the concrete
   has been poured. The tubes 63 are sacrificial and remain in the filled base
 5 block panel 54. Thus, prior to the concrete pour the temporary formwork can
   be bolted in place in the manner illustrated in figures 5-7. After the concrete
   has been poured and gone off, the bolts and the planks can be removed.
   Figure 8 and figure 9 illustrates two embodiments of the internal hollow shape
   of the base block panel. In figure 8, the internal hollow shape is defined by
10 traditional flat plain are internal walls 64 and in figure 9 the internal hollow
   shape is defined by curved "corrugated" internal walls 65.
   Referring to figure 11, there is illustrated a variation. This variation illustrates
   an upper fence panel 20 and a lower base block panel 27. Upper fence panel
   20 includes a number of spaced apart passageways or cavities 21 which are
15 100 mm in diameter and which may be lined with PVC pipe to prevent
   efflorescence and also to provide a measure of internal formwork. Each cavity
   21 contains a N-12 deformed bar steel support member 22 glued in with the
   use of concrete core fill. The base block panel 21 contains a N-12 deformed
   bar frame 23 to support the wall for retaining purposes. The base block panel
20 21 has a corrugated cavity design 24 to reduce the amount of concrete
   needing while still achieving maximum strength.
   Figure 10 illustrates a detail of an upper fence panel 30 which can be fixed to
   a base block panel 21 as described in fig 11, but if the base block panel is not
   required, the fence panel can also be secured to existing concrete footing 31.
25 The panel 30 is an expanded polystyrene panel 200 mm thick of the required
   height (1800 mm in the particular embodiment) and the required length (2500
   mm in the particular embodiment). The thickness of the panel is 200 mm in
   the    particular embodiment.     The panel     contains a    number of hollow
   passageways or cavities 32 extending entirely through the panel from a top
30 face 33 to a bottom face 34. Each cavity 32 contains a 12 mm N bar deformed
   steel 35 which is tied into the concrete footing 31 and which extends below
   bottom face 32 by the required amount which will depend on the footing type

                                             10
   and the anticipated loads on the panel. The cavities 32 can be lined with a
   PVC 37 liner to increase strength and to decrease the possibility of line and
   salts leaching. The PVC liner can also act as internal formwork. Each cavity
   32 also contains a 12 mm N-bar deformed steel rod 36 extending through the
 5 cavity.
   Figures 12-14 illustrate a base block panel by itself and particularly illustrating
   the vertical reinforcing bars 40 embedded in the footing 41 and extending into
   the core void 43 and the horizontal bars 44 tied in or otherwise attached to the
   vertical bars. This assists in providing retaining properties to the wall while still
10 providing a slim cavity design to reduce the amount of corefill concrete
   required.
   An advantage of the arrangement as illustrated in figures is that a fencing
   panel of the present invention can be quite easily attached to a retaining wall
   which itself comprises long relatively lightweight panels that can be concreted.
15 The fencing panel and a retaining wall can form an aesthetically pleasing flush
   finish which can be rendered and painted to form a relatively seamless
   feature.
   If we need to retain soil, up to 1.2 meters high, the EPS block has an internal
   cavity consisting of aspecifically designed corrugated void allowing for a
20 minimum amount of solid re-enforced concrete core fill while maintaing more
   strength that what is traditional available. In engineering tests loads exceed
   that of a traditional concrete block wall by 500kg. We would in that
   circumstance only build the wall to the height needed to retain, and would not
   provide a section that is only selectively corefilled if no more height past what
25 is required for retention of soil is needed.
   If we need to extend the wall past the height of the section to be retained, we
   need to provide a wall on top of the retaining section that allows for a higher
   wall with the same aesthetics. In that circumstance we provide a wall that is
   selectively filled with re-enforced concrete that also allows the base block to
30 be filled all at the same time. Commonly but not always we line the cavity with
   a PVC tube so to prevent any calcification or lime deposits that are present in

                                              11
   the concrete and can leach out should any water ingress or efflorescence
   occur.
   If we provide the system and a customer requires a section of the fence to
   extend over an old existing concrete footing or small existing concrete
 5 retaining wall so that the job
   The retaining wall can be formed with less concrete than previously required
   and, for instance, the internal hollow of the retaining wall (the base block
   panels 54) can be 60 mm wide (thereby requiring much less concrete) than
   traditional "Besser" blocks which have an internal width of about 180 mm and
10 therefore require much more concrete fill.
   In an embodiment, there is provided a unitary piece of M Grade EPS with pre
   made holes ready to accept steel support members. These would be used
   over existing concrete or a strip footing would be poured first in preparation for
   installation. If it is to go over existing concrete, holes would be drilled into the
15 concrete at the same intervals as the holes in the panel and steel support
   member would be chem set into them anchoring them into the footing. If the
   concrete strip footing was to be laid especially for the fence panel there would
   also be the option of placing the steel support members into the wet concrete
   at the same intervals to set with the concrete or you could chem set them in
20 later as above. Next the panel would be placed over the steel, the panel would
   then be braced in place and then the holes in the panel would be filled with
   concrete core fill to fix the steel to the panel.
   The fencing system is cost-effective and lightweight and therefore the footings
   do not need to be as large resulting in a saving in trench mesh and concrete.
25 The fence panels have a very high sound rating and are considered to be
   superior to concrete blocks. The panels can be manufactured at the factory
   and readily assembled on-site. If desired, adjacent panels can be glued
   together and quite easily trimmed or shape prior to rendering. Additional parts
   can be added to the panels such as a decorative top cap which can be glued
30 and screwed in place. The panels can also be bolted to a side support using
   modified footings.

                                           12
   In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
   more or less specific to structural or methodical features. The term
   "comprises" and its variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of" is
 5 used throughout in an inclusive sense and not to the exclusion of any
   additional features. It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to
   specific features shown or described since the means herein described
   comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is,
   therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope
10 of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.
   Throughout the specification and claims (if present), unless the context
   requires otherwise, the term "substantially" or "about" will be understood to
   not be limited to the value for the range qualified by the terms.
   Any embodiment of the invention is meant to be illustrative only and is not
   meant to be limiting to the invention. Therefore, it should be appreciated that
   various other changes and modifications can be made to any embodiment
   described without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                        13
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    A panel for use in fencing, comprising a non-reinforced hardened foam
having two or more spaced apart and unconnected internal voids formed
therein to receive concrete.
2.    The panel according to claim 1, having an upper edge and a lower edge,
with at least one of said internal voids extending from the upper edge through
to the lower edge.
3.    The panel according to claim 1 or claim 2, comprising wall members
attached relative to each other to define said voids.
4.    The panel of claim 1 or claim 2, formed as a single piece.
5.    The panel as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein each
void has a corrugated wall configuration.
6.    The panel as claimed in any one of the preceding claims having a length
of between 0.5-6 meters, a height of between 0.5-2.5 meters, and a thickness
of between 100-600mm.
7.    The panel as claimed in claim 3, wherein the wall members are
supported against bowing during a concrete pour into said voids by a support
means which comprises reinforcement members adapted to be temporarily
fixed to the wall members to provide temporary reinforcement and then
removed.
8.    The panel of claim 7, wherein a fixing means is provided to fix the
support means and which comprises one or more bolts extendible through the
panel to fix one or more support means to the block.

                                        14
9.    The panel as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
void has a width of between 40-120mm and the thickness of the wall
members is between 40-150mm.
10. The panel as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
panel is supported underneath by a base block panel, and the internal voids of
the panel allow cement to be pumped through the internal voids and into the
base block panel.
11.   The panel of claim 10, including at least one reinforcement bar extending
along the internal voids.
12. The panel of claim 10 or claim 11, including a plastic sleeve lining the
internal voids.
13. A method for installing a panel for use in fencing according to any one of
the preceding claims, the method including:
      anchoring the panel to the ground with a reinforced strip footing.
14. A method according to claim 13, further including installing steel support
members for the panel.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the steel support members are
installed by placing them into a footing whilst wet.
16. A method according to claim 14 wherein the steel support members are
installed into a preexisting footing by drilling hole and anchoring said support
members therein with a suitable adhesive.
17. A method according to any one of claims 14 to 1+ further including filling
said voids with concrete to thereby anchor the panel to the support members.
18. A method to form a retaining wall containing at least one fixed fencing
panel on top of the retaining wall, the method comprising providing at least

                                        15
one base block panel which is substantially hollow to allow for concrete and
steel to the required height, positioning a fencing panel on top of the base
block panel, the fencing panel comprising a non-reinforced hardened foam,
the panel containing at least two spaced apart unconnected passageways
extending from a top wall of the panel to a bottom wall of the panel to allow
cement to be pumped through the passageway, the panel containing at least
one extending footing member which extends into the hollow of the base block
panel, and, pouring/pumping concrete or other suitable settable material
through the passageway to fill the hollow in the base block panel and then to
at least partially fill the passageway.

                                        1/7
<removed-date>
                                                    10
<removed-apn>
                                  54
                                       FIG 1
                                               58
              54             55
                   56   57   59           55             59
                                       FIG 2

                                       2/7
<removed-date>
              50   52        51
<removed-apn>
                        54        53         60   58
                                   FIG 3
                                       51
              54   51        50              58        51
              56
                                   FIG 4

                                           3/7
<removed-date>              61           62
<removed-apn>
                    54   61
                                       FIG 5
              62   61    54      61   63         61      62
                         FIG 6                   FIG 7

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        65           64
                                                 4/7
FIG 9        FIG 8

                       5/7
<removed-date>
              33
                                         30
                                        36
                                        32
                                        35
<removed-apn>
                                        31
                                  37
                             34
                   FIG 10
                                             21
                                             22
                                             23
                                             24
                                             20
                                   27
                   FIG 11

                              6/7
<removed-date>
              40   44                 40
                                              43
<removed-apn>
                    44              FIG 12              41
                                                   40
                                    44
                         40
                                             43
                                                   44
                                    FIG 13

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           43
                                7/7
FIG 14

