                                        ABSTRACT
A method for quickly starting a television function is disclosed and includes: in response
to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently displayed
startup page, starting a television function corresponding to the start instruction; updating
the number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction; and
when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number of times,
adding the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to a quick start interface
corresponding to a quick start key of a remote controller. A device for quickly starting a
television function is further disclosed.     Thus, when the user has started a certain
television function multiple times through the start icon in the startup page, the
corresponding start icon will be added to the quick start interface corresponding to the
quick start key. As such, the television functions repeatedly used by the user can be
automatically added to the quick start interface, which reduces the user's operations when
using the corresponding television functions, thus improving the user experience.

       METHOD AND DEVICE FOR QUICKLY STARTING A TELEVISION
                                         FUNCTION
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] This disclosure relates generally to the technical field of televisions, and more
particularly relates to a method and a device for quickly starting a television function.
BACKGROUND
[0002] With the rapid development of smart television technology, televisions today have
increasingly rich functions. In order to meet users' different requirements on televisions,
television manufacturers have created various complicated functions such as personal
video recorder (PVR), Video, Photos, Music, HDMI, Parental Control, and so forth. The
HOME page of the television system thus hosts a large number of television function icons,
and many of these functions may have multiple micro functions in their sub-pages. For
example, there are numerous functions in the Menu that are as many as those in the HOME
page.
[0003] Due to the increasing number of television functions, the user, when needing to use
a certain function, needs to search among numerous functions to find the required function,
resulting in cumbersome operations for the user. For example, each time the user needs to
search for channels, he would always need to first go to the HOME page and then enter the
Menu page to perform the channel search operation.
SUMMARY
[0004] This disclosure provides a method and a device for quickly starting a television
function, which aims to solve the technical problem that the user needs to perform
cumbersome operations to find the required function from among numerous functions.
[0005] In order to achieve the above object, this disclosure provides a method for quickly
starting a television function. The method may include the following operations. After
receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently displayed startup
                                               I

page which contains the corresponding start icons of multiple television functions, the
television function corresponding to the start instruction is started. Then the number of
times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction is updated. When the
updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number of times, the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction is added to a quick start interface corresponding to a
quick start key of a remote controller.
[0006] In some embodiments, adding the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to
the quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key of the remote controller when
the updated number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times includes
the following operations: determining whether the television function corresponding to the
start instruction exists in the quick start interface when the updated number of times of
starts is greater than the preset number of times; and adding the start icon corresponding to
the start instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the
start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
[0007] In some embodiments, the method for quickly starting a television function further
includes the following operations: upon receiving an add instruction triggered based on a
start icon in the currently displayed startup page, determining whether the start icon
corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface; and adding the start
icon corresponding to the add instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
[0008] In some embodiments, the method for quickly starting a television function further
includes the following operations, subsequent to adding the start icon corresponding to the
start instruction to the quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key of the
remote controller: upon receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start
key of the remote controller, displaying the quick start interface in a display interface of
the television; and upon receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, starting the television function corresponding to the start instruction.
[0009] In some embodiments, the method for quickly starting a television function further
includes the following operations, subsequent to displaying the quick start interface in the
display interface of the television: upon receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on
a start icon in the quick start interface, deleting the start icon corresponding to the deleting
                                                  2

instruction from the quick start interface; and updating the corresponding number of times
of starts of the deleted start icon.
[0010] In order to achieve the above object, this disclosure further provides a device for
quickly starting a television function, the device including: a first starting module
configured to, in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a
currently displayed startup page which contains the corresponding start icons of multiple
television functions, start the television function corresponding to the start instruction; a
first updating module configured to update the number of times of starts of the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction; and a first adding module configured to add the start
icon corresponding to the start instruction to a quick start interface corresponding to a
quick start key of a remote controller when the updated number of times of starts is greater
than a preset number of times.
[0011] In some embodiments, the first adding module includes: a determining unit
configured to determine whether the television function corresponding to the start
instruction exists in the quick start interface when the updated number of times of starts is
greater than the preset number of times; and an adding unit configured to add the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
[0012] In some embodiments, the device for quickly starting a television function further
includes: a determining module configured to, in response to receiving an add instruction
triggered based on a start icon in a currently displayed startup page, determine whether the
start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface; and a
second adding module configured to add the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't
exist in the quick start interface.
[0013] In some embodiments, the device for quickly starting a television function further
includes: a display module configured to, in response to receiving a display instruction
triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, display the quick start
interface in a display interface of the television; and a second starting module configured
to, in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick
start interface, start the television function corresponding to the start instruction.
                                                 3

[0014] In some embodiments, the device for quickly starting a television function further
includes: a deleting module configured to, in response to receiving a deleting instruction
triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, delete the start icon
corresponding to the deleting instruction from the quick start interface; and a second
updating module configured to update the corresponding number of times of starts of the
deleted start icon.
[0015] According to this disclosure, after receiving a start instruction triggered based on a
start icon in a currently displayed startup page, the television function corresponding to the
start instruction is started, and the number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding
to the start instruction is updated. Then when the updated number of times of starts is
greater than a preset number of times, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
would be added to a quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote
controller. Thus, when the user has started a certain television function multiple times
through the start icon in the startup page, the corresponding start icon will be added to the
quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key. As such, the television functions
repeatedly used by the user can be automatically added to the quick start interface, which
reduces the user's operations when using the corresponding television functions, thus
improving the user experience.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
[0016] FIG. 1 is an illustrative flowchart of a first embodiment of a method for quickly
starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0017] FIG. 2 is a detailed flowchart illustrating the addition of a start icon corresponding
to a start instruction to a quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote
controller in a second embodiment of the method for quickly starting a television function
according to this disclosure.
[0018] FIG. 3 is an illustrative flowchart of a third embodiment of the method for quickly
starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0019] FIG. 4 is an illustrative flowchart of a fourth embodiment of the method for quickly
starting a television function according to this disclosure.
                                                  4

[0020] FIG. 5 is an illustrative flowchart of a fifth embodiment of the method for quickly
starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0021] FIG. 6 is an illustrative functional block diagram of a first embodiment of a device
for quickly starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0022] FIG. 7 is a detailed functional block diagram of a first adding module in a second
embodiment of the device for quickly starting a television function according to this
disclosure.
[0023] FIG. 8 is an illustrative functional block diagram of a third embodiment of the
device for quickly starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0024] FIG. 9 is an illustrative functional block diagram of a fourth embodiment of the
device for quickly starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0025] FIG. 10 is an illustrative functional block diagram of a fifth embodiment of the
device for quickly starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0026] Various implementations, functional features, and advantages of this disclosure will
now be described in further detail in connection with some illustrative embodiments and
the accompanying drawings.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
[0027] It will be appreciated that the specific embodiments described herein are merely
illustrative of the disclosure and are not intended to limit the disclosure.
[0028] There is provided a method for quickly starting a television function. FIG. 1 is an
illustrative flowchart of a first embodiment of a method for quickly starting a television
function according to this disclosure.
[0029] In this embodiment, the method for quickly starting a television function includes
the following blocks which begin at S10.
[0030] In S10, after receiving a start instruction that is triggered based on a start icon in a
currently displayed startup page, the television function corresponding to the start
instruction is started, where the startup page contains the corresponding start icons of
multiple television functions.
[0031] In this embodiment, the user can enter the startup page through keys of a remote
controller or the television, where the startup page contains the corresponding start icons of
                                                5

all the television functions of the television. The sub-functions of the corresponding
television functions can also be triggered through the above-described start icons. After
receiving a start instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in the currently
displayed startup page, the television function corresponding to the start instruction will be
started to satisfy the user's need. The method then proceeds to S20.
[0032] In S20, the number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction is updated.
[0033] In this embodiment, each time the corresponding television function is started by
using the start icon, the number of times of starts of this start icon will be accumulated.
That is, when the start instruction triggered based on the start icon is received, the number
of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction will be updated in
order to record the current number of times that the user has activated the corresponding
television function through this start icon; specifically, the number of times of starts is
incremented by 1 as the new number of times of starts.
[0034] In one embodiment, an array, i.e., a preset array, in which the number of array
elements is the same as the number of television functions, may be set. Accordingly, when
receiving a start instruction triggered based on the start icon, the value of the array element
in the preset array that corresponds to this start instruction will be updated. The method
then continues to S30.
[0035] In S30, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number
of times, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction is added to a quick start
interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote controller.
[0036] In this embodiment, the remote controller is provided with a quick start key.
Specifically, a quick start key such as an F key can be added to the remote controller. The
user can add the corresponding start icons of the television functions to the quick start
interface corresponding to the F key. Thus, selecting a start icon in the quick start interface
corresponding to the F key, the user can directly jump to the selected function.
Alternatively, in the quick start interface corresponding to the F key, numeric keys from 0
to 9 can also be used to quickly select the desired function.
[0037] In this embodiment, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than the
preset number of times, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction will be added to
                                                6

the quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key of the remote controller, so
that after the user has started a certain television function multiple times through a start
icon in the startup page, the corresponding start icon will be added to the quick start
interface corresponding to the quick start key.
[0038] In one embodiment, while adding the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction to the quick start interface, the status of the number of times of starts is changed;
for example, the status of the number of times of starts may be set to a non-editable status,
so that when the user subsequently starts the corresponding television function again
through the start icon of the startup page, the number of times of starts will no longer be
accumulated. Further, while deleting a start icon from the quick start interface, the user
can set the status of the number of times of starts to an editable state and set the number of
times of starts to its initial value, e.g., 0, so that when the user subsequently starts the
corresponding television function again through the start icon of the startup page, the
number of times of starts will be re-accumulated.
[0039] According to the method for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently
displayed startup page, the television function corresponding to the start instruction is
started, and the number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction is updated. Then when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a
preset number of times, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction is added to a
quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote controller. Thus, when
the user has started a certain television function multiple times through the start icon in the
startup page, the corresponding start icon will be added to the quick start interface
corresponding to the quick start key. As such, the television functions repeatedly used by
the user can be automatically added to the quick start interface, which reduces the user's
operations when using the corresponding television functions and thus improves the user
experience.
[0040] There is provided a second embodiment of the method for quickly starting a
television function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 2, block
S30 may include the following operations S31 and S32.
                                                    7

[0041] In S21, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than the preset
number of times, a determination is performed to make sure whether the television
function corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface.
[0042] In this embodiment, for the convenience of the user, the start icons of some
television functions may be automatically added to the quick start interface when the
television is shipped. In order to avoid adding a start icon that already exists in the quick
start interface again to this quick start interface when the number of times of starts is
greater than the preset number of times thus resulting in two identical start icons appearing
in the startup page, a determination is performed to make sure whether the television
function corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface when the
number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times.
[0043] In S32, when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the
quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction is added to the
quick start interface.
[0044] In this embodiment, when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
is added to the quick start interface. Otherwise when the start icon corresponding to the
start instruction exists in the quick start interface, then the start icon will not be added to
the quick start interface, so as to avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start
interface, which may otherwise result in a waste of system resources.
[0045] According to the method for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than the preset number
of times, a determination is performed to make sure whether the television function
corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface, and then if the start
icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the start
icon corresponding to the start instruction will be added to the quick start interface, so that
when the number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times the start icon
which doesn't exist in the quick start interface can be added to the quick start interface,
which can avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start interface and thus can
avoid the waste of system resources.
                                                  8

[0046] There is provided a third embodiment of the method for quickly starting a
television function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 3, the
method may further include the following blocks S40 and S50.
[0047] In S40, in response to receiving an add instruction triggered based on a start icon in
the currently displayed startup page, a determination is performed to make sure whether
the start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface.
[0048] In this embodiment, the user can actively add the start icons of some television
functions to the quick start interface. Of course, in order to avoid adding the start icon that
already exists in the quick start interface to the quick start interface when the number of
times of starts is greater than the preset number of times thus resulting in two identical start
icons appearing in the quick start interface, a determination is performed to make sure
whether the television function corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start
interface upon receiving the add instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in the
currently displayed startup page.
[0049] In S50, when the start icon corresponding to the add instruction doesn't exist in the
quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction is added to the
quick start interface.
[0050] In this embodiment, when the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
will be added to the quick start interface. Otherwise when the start icon corresponding to
the add instruction exists in the quick start interface, then the start icon will not be added to
the quick start interface, so as to avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start
interface, which may otherwise result in a waste of system resources.
[0051] According to the method for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving an add instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in
the currently displayed startup page, a determination is performed to make sure whether
the start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface, and
then if the start icon corresponding to the add instruction doesn't exist in the quick start
interface, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction will be added to the quick
start interface. Thus, the user can actively add the start icons of some television functions
to the quick start interface, which improves the user experience and meanwhile avoids two
                                                 9

identical start icons present in the quick start interface, thereby avoiding the waste of
system resources.
[0052] There is provided a fourth embodiment of the method for quickly starting a
television function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 4, the
method may further include the following blocks S60 and S70 subsequent to block S30.
[0053] In S60, in response to receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick
start key of the remote controller, the quick start interface is displayed in a display
interface of the television.
[0054] In this embodiment, the user can trigger a display instruction for the quick start
interface through the quick start key of the remote controller; that is, after receiving the
display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, the quick
start interface will be displayed in the television's display interface, where the quick start
interface contains the start icons of all the television functions that have currently been
added.
[0055] In S70, in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon of
the quick start interface, the television function corresponding to the start instruction is
started.
[0056] In this embodiment, the user can trigger a start instruction through, e.g., the remote
controller. For example, the user can select a start icon in the quick start interface by using
the remote controller. After receiving a start instruction triggered based on the start icon in
the quick start interface, the television function corresponding to the start instruction can
then be started. Thus, the user can start the corresponding television functions through the
quick start interface, thereby reducing the operations performed by the user when using the
corresponding television functions.
[0057] According to the method for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of
the remote controller, the quick start interface is displayed in the television's display
interface. Then after receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, the television function corresponding to the start instruction is started.
Thus, the corresponding television functions can be started through the quick start interface,
                                                 10

reducing the operations performed by the user when using the corresponding television
functions, resulting in further improved user experience.
[0058] There is provided a fifth embodiment of the method for quickly starting a television
function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 5, the method may
further include the following blocks S80 and S90 subsequent to block S60.
[0059] In S80, after receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the deleting instruction is deleted from
the quick start interface.
[0060] In this embodiment, the user can actively delete the start icons of some television
functions present in the quick start interface. The deleting instruction for the start icon
may be triggered by a remote controller or the like. For example, the remote controller can
be used to select a corresponding delete option of the start icon in the quick start interface
in order to trigger the deleting instruction for the start icon. Specifically, upon receiving
the deleting instruction which is triggered based on the start icon in the quick start interface,
the start icon corresponding to this deleting instruction will be deleted from the quick start
interface.
[0061] In S90, the corresponding number of times of starts of the deleted start icon is
updated.
[0062] In this embodiment, to facilitate the user to re-add the deleted start icon to the quick
start interface after subsequently using this start icon multiple times, the corresponding
number of times of starts of the deleted start icon is updated. Specifically, the number of
times of starts may be set to its initial value such as 0; in addition, if the status of the
number of times of starts is non-editable, then the status of the number of times of starts
can be modified to an editable status.
[0063] According to the method for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the deleting instruction is deleted from
the quick start interface, and then the corresponding number of times of starts of the
deleted start icon is updated. Thus, the user can delete the start icons in the quick start
interface as needed in order to avoid the start icons of the infrequently used television
functions residing in the quick start interface for a long time, thereby saving system
                                                 11

resources. Meanwhile, updating the number of times of starts can facilitate the user to re
add the deleted start icon to the quick start interface after subsequently repeatedly using the
deleted start icon, thereby further improving the user experience.
[0064] This disclosure further provides a device for quickly starting a television function.
FIG. 6 is an illustrative functional block diagram of a first embodiment of a device for
quickly starting a television function according to this disclosure.
[0065] In this embodiment, the device for quickly starting a television function includes a
first starting module 10, a first updating module 20, and a first adding module 30.
[0066] The first starting module 10 is configured to, in response to receiving a start
instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently displayed startup page, start a
television function corresponding to the start instruction, where the startup page contains
the corresponding start icons of multiple television functions.
[0067] In this embodiment, the user can enter the startup page through keys of a remote
controller or the television, where the startup page contains the corresponding start icons of
all the television functions of the television. The sub-functions of the corresponding
television functions can also be triggered through the above-described start icons. After
receiving a start instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in the currently
displayed startup page, the television function corresponding to the start instruction is
started to satisfy the user's need.
[0068] The first updating module 20 is configured to update the number of times of starts
of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction.
[0069] In this embodiment, each time the corresponding television function is started by
using the start icon, the number of times of starts of this start icon will be accumulated.
That is, when the start instruction triggered based on the start icon is received, the number
of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction will be updated in
order to record the current number of times that the user has activated the corresponding
television function through this start icon; specifically, the number of times of starts is
incremented by 1 as the new number of times of starts.
[0070] In one embodiment, an array, i.e., a preset array, in which the number of array
elements is the same as the number of television functions, may be set. Accordingly, when
                                                12

receiving a start instruction triggered based on the start icon, the value of the array element
in the preset array that corresponds to this start instruction will be updated.
[0071] The first adding module 30 is configured to add the start icon corresponding to the
start instruction to a quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote
controller when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number of
times.
[0072] In this embodiment, the remote controller is provided with a quick start key.
Specifically, a quick start key such as an F key can be added to the remote controller. The
user can add the corresponding start icons of the television functions to the quick start
interface corresponding to the F key. Thus, selecting a start icon in the quick start interface
corresponding to the F key, the user can directly jump to the selected function.
Alternatively, in the quick start interface corresponding to the F key, numeric keys from 0
to 9 can also be used to quickly select the desired function.
[0073] In this embodiment, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than the
preset number of times, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction will be added to
the quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key of the remote controller, so
that after the user has started a certain television function multiple times through a start
icon in the startup page, the corresponding start icon will be added to the quick start
interface corresponding to the quick start key.
[0074] In one embodiment, while adding the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction to the quick start interface, the status of the number of times of starts is changed;
for example, the status of the number of times of starts may be set to a non-editable status,
so that when the user subsequently starts the corresponding television function again
through the start icon of the startup page, the number of times of starts will no longer be
accumulated. Further, while deleting a start icon in the quick start interface, the user can
set the status of the number of times of starts to an editable state and set the number of
times of starts to its initial value, e.g., 0, such that when the user subsequently starts the
corresponding television function again through the start icon of the startup page, the
number of times of starts will be re-accumulated.
[0075] According to the device for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently
                                                   13

displayed startup page, the first adding module 10 starts the television function
corresponding to the start instruction, and then the first updating module 20 updates the
number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start instruction. Then
when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number of times, the
first adding module 30 will add the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to a
quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote controller. Thus, when
the user has started a certain television function multiple times through the start icon in the
startup page, the corresponding start icon will be added to the quick start interface
corresponding to the quick start key. As such, the television functions repeatedly used by
the user can be automatically added to the quick start interface, which reduces the user's
operations when using the corresponding television functions, thus improving the user
experience.
[0076] There is provided a second embodiment of the device for quickly starting a
television function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 7, the first
adding module 30 includes a determining unit 31 and an adding unit 32.
[0077] The determining unit 31 is configured to determine whether the television function
corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface when the updated
number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times.
[0078] In this embodiment, for the convenience of the user, the start icons of some
television functions may be automatically added to the quick start interface when the
television is shipped. In order to avoid adding a start icon that already exists in the quick
start interface again to this quick start interface when the number of times of starts is
greater than the preset number of times thus resulting in two identical start icons appearing
in the startup page, a determination is performed to make sure whether the television
function corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface when the
number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times.
[0079] The adding unit 32 is configured to add the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
[0080] In this embodiment, when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
                                                 14

will be added to the quick start interface. Otherwise when the start icon corresponding to
the start instruction exists in the quick start interface, then the start icon will not be added
to the quick start interface, so as to avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start
interface, which may otherwise lead to a waste of system resources.
[0081] According to the device for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, when the updated number of times of starts is greater than the preset number
of times, the determining unit 31 determines whether the television function corresponding
to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface, and then if the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the adding
unit 32 will add the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start
interface, so that when the number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of
times the start icon which doesn't exist in the quick start interface can be added to the
quick start interface, which can avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start
interface and thus can avoid the waste of system resources.
[0082] There is provided a third embodiment of the device for quickly starting a television
function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 8, the device may
further include a determining module 40 and a second adding module 50.
[0083] The determining module 40 is configured to, in response to receiving an add
instruction triggered based on a start icon in the currently displayed startup page, determine
whether the start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface.
[0084] In this embodiment, the user can actively add the start icons of some television
functions to the quick start interface. Of course, in order to avoid adding the start icon that
already exists in the quick start interface to the quick start interface when the number of
times of starts is greater than the preset number of times thus resulting in two identical start
icons appearing in the quick start interface, a determination is performed to make sure
whether the television function corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start
interface upon receiving the add instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in the
currently displayed startup page.
[0085] The second adding module 50 is configured to add the start icon corresponding to
the add instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
                                                 15

[0086] In this embodiment, when the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
doesn't exist in the quick start interface, the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
is added to the quick start interface. Otherwise when the start icon corresponding to the
add instruction exists in the quick start interface, then the start icon will not be added to the
quick start interface, so as to avoid two identical start icons present in the quick start
interface, which may otherwise result in a waste of system resources.
[0087] According to the device for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, when receiving an add instruction which is triggered based on a start icon in
the currently displayed startup page, the determining module 40 determines whether the
start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface, and then if
the start icon corresponding to the add instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface,
the second adding module 50 will add the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
to the quick start interface, so that the user can actively add the start icons of some
television functions to the quick start interface, which improves the user experience and
meanwhile avoids two identical start icons present in the quick start interface, thereby
avoiding the waste of system resources.
[0088] There is provided a fourth embodiment of the device for quickly starting a
television function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 9, the
device may further include a display module 60 and a second starting module 70.
[0089] The display module 60 is configured to, in response to receiving a display
instruction triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, display the quick
start interface in a display interface of the television.
[0090] In this embodiment, the user can trigger a display instruction for the quick start
interface through the quick start key of the remote controller; that is, after receiving the
display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, the quick
start interface will be displayed in the television's display interface, where the quick start
interface contains the start icons of all the television functions that have currently been
added.
[0091] The second starting module 70 is configured to, in response to receiving a start
instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, start the television
function corresponding to the start instruction.
                                                 16

[0092] In this embodiment, the user can trigger a start instruction through, e.g., the remote
controller. For example, the user can select a start icon in the quick start interface by using
the remote controller. After receiving a start instruction triggered based on the start icon in
the quick start interface, the television function corresponding to the start instruction can
then be started. Thus, the user can start the corresponding television functions through the
quick start interface, thereby reducing the operations performed by the user when using the
corresponding television functions.
[0093] According to the device for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of
the remote controller, the display module 60 displays the quick start interface in the
television's display interface. Then after receiving a start instruction triggered based on a
start icon in the quick start interface, the second starting module 70 will start the television
function corresponding to the start instruction. Thus, the corresponding television
functions can be started through the quick start interface, reducing the operations
performed by the user when using the corresponding television functions, resulting in
further improved user experience.
[0094] There is provided a fifth embodiment of the device for quickly starting a television
function on the basis of the first embodiment. As illustrated in FIG. 10, the device may
further include a deleting module 80 and a second updating module 90.
[0095] The deleting module 80 is configured to, in response to receiving a deleting
instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, delete the start icon
corresponding to the deleting instruction from the quick start interface.
[0096] In this embodiment, the user can actively delete the start icons of some television
functions present in the quick start interface. The deleting instruction for the start icon
may be triggered by a remote controller or the like. For example, the remote controller can
be used to select a corresponding delete option of the start icon in the quick start interface
in order to trigger the deleting instruction for the start icon. Specifically, upon receiving
the deleting instruction which is triggered based on the start icon in the quick start interface,
the start icon corresponding to this deleting instruction will be deleted from the quick start
interface.
                                                 17

[0097] The second updating module 90 is configured to update the corresponding number
of times of starts of the deleted start icon.
[0098] In this embodiment, to facilitate the user to re-add the deleted start icon to the quick
start interface after subsequently using this start icon multiple times, the corresponding
number of times of starts of the deleted start icon will be updated. Specifically, the number
of times of starts may be set to its initial value such as 0; in addition, if the status of the
number of times of starts is non-editable, then the status of the number of times of starts
can be modified to an editable status.
[0099] According to the device for quickly starting a television function provided by this
embodiment, after receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, the deleting module 80 deletes the start icon corresponding to the
deleting instruction from the quick start interface, and then the second updating module 90
updates the corresponding number of times of starts of the deleted start icon. Thus, the
user can delete the start icons in the quick start interface as needed in order to avoid the
start icons of the infrequently used television functions residing in the quick start interface
for a long time, thereby saving system resources. Meanwhile, updating the number of
times of starts can facilitate the user to re-add the deleted start icon to the quick start
interface after subsequently repeatedly using the deleted start icon, thereby further
improving the user experience.
[0100] The foregoing merely portrays some illustrative embodiments according to this
disclosure and therefore is not intended to limit the scope of protection of this disclosure.
Any equivalent structural changes or flow transformations based on the specification and
accompanying drawings of this disclosure and any direct/indirect applications of this
disclosure on other related technical fields shall all be compassed within the scope of
protection of this disclosure.
                                                 18

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
      1. A method for quickly starting a television function, comprising:
      in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in a currently
displayed startup page, starting a function of a television corresponding to the start
instruction, the startup page containing corresponding start icons of a plurality of television
functions;
      updating the number of times of starts of the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction; and
      adding the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to a quick start interface
corresponding to a quick start key of a remote controller when the updated number of
times of starts is greater than a preset number of times.
      2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein adding the start icon corresponding to
the start instruction to the quick start interface corresponding to the quick start key of the
remote controller comprises:
      determining whether the television function corresponding to the start instruction
exists in the quick start interface when the updated number of times of starts is greater than
the preset number of times; and
      adding the start icon corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start interface
when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start
interface.
      3. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:
      in response to receiving an add instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
currently displayed startup page, determining whether the start icon corresponding to the
add instruction exists in the quick start interface; and
                                                19

      adding the start icon corresponding to the add instruction to the quick start interface
when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist in the quick start
interface.
      4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein subsequent to adding the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start interface corresponding to the quick
start key of the remote controller, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of
the remote controller, displaying the quick start interface in a display interface of the
television; and
      in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick
start interface, starting a television function corresponding to the start instruction.
      5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein subsequent to displaying the quick start
interface in the display interface of the television, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, deleting the start icon corresponding to the deleting instruction from
the quick start interface; and
      updating the corresponding number of times of starts of the deleted start icon.
      6. The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein subsequent to adding the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start interface corresponding to the quick
start key of the remote controller, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of
the remote controller, displaying the quick start interface in a display interface of the
television; and
                                                20

      in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick
start interface, starting a television function corresponding to the start instruction.
      7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein subsequent to displaying the quick start
interface in the display interface of the television, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, deleting the start icon corresponding to the deleting instruction from
the quick start interface; and
      updating the corresponding number of times of starts of the deleted start icon.
      8. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein subsequent to adding the start icon
corresponding to the start instruction to the quick start interface corresponding to the quick
start key of the remote controller, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a display instruction triggered based on the quick start key of
the remote controller, displaying the quick start interface in a display interface of the
television; and
      in response to receiving a start instruction triggered based on a start icon in the quick
start interface, starting a television function corresponding to the start instruction.
      9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein subsequent to displaying the quick start
interface in the display interface of the television, the method further comprises:
      in response to receiving a deleting instruction triggered based on a start icon in the
quick start interface, deleting the start icon corresponding to the deleting instruction from
the quick start interface; and
      updating the corresponding number of times of starts of the deleted start icon.
      10. A device for quickly starting a television function, comprising:
                                                21

      a first starting module, configured to, in response to receiving a start instruction
triggered based on a start icon in a currently displayed startup page, start a function of a
television corresponding to the start instruction, wherein the startup page contains
corresponding start icons of plurality of television functions;
      a first updating module, configured to update the number of times of starts of the start
icon corresponding to the start instruction; and
      a first adding module, configured to add the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction to a quick start interface corresponding to a quick start key of a remote
controller when the updated number of times of starts is greater than a preset number of
times.
      11. The device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the first adding module comprises:
      a determining unit, configured to determine whether the television function
corresponding to the start instruction exists in the quick start interface when the updated
number of times of starts is greater than the preset number of times; and
      an adding unit, configured to add the start icon corresponding to the start instruction
to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't
exist in the quick start interface.
      12. The device as claimed in claim 10, further comprising:
      a determining module, configured to, in response to receiving an add instruction
triggered based on a start icon in the currently displayed startup page, determine whether
the start icon corresponding to the add instruction exists in the quick start interface; and
      a second adding module, configured to add the start icon corresponding to the add
instruction to the quick start interface when the start icon corresponding to the start
instruction doesn't exist in the quick start interface.
                                                22

      13. The device as claimed in claim 10, further comprising:
      a display module, configured to, in response to receiving a display instruction
triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, display the quick start
interface in a display interface of the television; and
      a second starting module, configured to, in response to receiving a start instruction
triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, start a television function
corresponding to the start instruction.
      14. The device as claimed in claim 13, further comprising:
      a deleting module, configured to, in response to receiving a deleting instruction
triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, delete the start icon
corresponding to the deleting instruction from the quick start interface; and
      a second updating module, configured to update the corresponding number of times of
starts of the deleted start icon.
      15. The device as claimed in claim 11, further comprising:
      a display module, configured to, in response to receiving a display instruction
triggered based on the quick start key of the remote controller, display the quick start
interface in a display interface of the television; and
      a second starting module, configured to, in response to receiving a start instruction
triggered based on a start icon in the quick start interface, start a television function
corresponding to the start instruction.
                                                23

                                   1/5
S10   In response to receiving a start instruction triggered based
     on a start icon in a currently displayed startup page, starting
      a television function corresponding to the start instruction
S20
             Updating the number of starts of the start icon
                   corresponding to the start instruction
S30   When the updated number of starts is greater than a preset
     number of times, adding the start icon corresponding to the
     start instruction to a quick start interface corresponding to a
                   quick start key of a remote controller
                                FIG. 1
S31
     When the updated number of starts is greater than the preset number
    of times, determining whether the television function corresponding to
              the start instruction exists in the quick start interface
S32 When the start icon corresponding to the start instruction doesn't exist
     in the quick start interface, adding the start icon corresponding to the
                   start instruction to the quick start interface
                                FIG. 2
S40   In response to receiving an add instruction triggered based
         on a start icon in the currently displayed startup page,
     determining whether the start icon corresponding to the add
                instruction exist in the quick start interface
S50    When the start icon corresponding to the add instruction
        doesn't exist in the quick start interface, adding the start
      icon corresponding to the add instruction to the quick start
                                     interface
                                FIG. 3





