                                           ABSTRACT
          An apparatus for providing surface texturing on a punch sleeve used in a metal
   container manufacturing process is disclosed. In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises
   a connection mechanism positioned proximate to a first end of the apparatus, the
 5 connection mechanism configured to interconnect to one end of the punch sleeve, and
   wherein the connection mechanism rotates the punch sleeve around a longitudinal axis of
   the punch sleeve; an arm positioned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve;
   and an etching tool for applying a first surface texture to a first region of an outer surface
   of the punch sleeve, said etching tool moveably interconnected to the arm such that the
10 etching tool can be selectively positioned along the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve.
                                                25

                        PUNCH SURFACE TEXTURING FOR USE IN
                  THE MANUFACTURING OF METALLIC CONTAINERS
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
           This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
 5 <removed-apn> filed on 1 July 2016, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
   reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to punch tooling utilized in
   forming metallic containers, and more specifically to punch tooling with surface texturing
10 utilized in forming metallic food and beverage containers.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Light-weight metal containers, including food and beverage containers, and the
   tooling employed to manufacture and form the metal food and beverage containers are
   generally known in the art.       Typically, it is desired to manufacture metal food and
15 beverage containers with as little material and the highest rates of production as possible,
   while maintaining desired quality characteristics. In typical metal forming processes used
   in metal container manufacturing, the metal is sized through various stages of tooling,
   which forms the desired shape and size of the container. The process often starts cutting a
   circular metal "blank" out of a sheet of metal. Then the metal blank (typically aluminum)
20 placed into a cupping press, where the blank is "drawn" or pulled up into the shape of a
   cup, which has a diameter of about 3.5 inches to 4.0 inches and a height of about 1.3
   inches for traditional 12 oz. cans. The following steps and processes typically work the
   cup (e.g., in a bodymaker machine) through numerous ironing and redrawing operations.
   This process reduces the wall thicknesses of the starting material and elongates the
25 container into the desired final container shape. Here, a sleeve holds the cup in place and
   a punch is lowered swiftly into the cup and redraws the cup to a diameter of about 2.6
   inches and a height of 2.25 inches for traditional 12 oz. cans. The punch (also called a
   punch sleeve) then pushes the cup against multiple ironing rings (typically three, also
   called ironing die), which stretch and thin the cup walls such that the cup for a traditional
                                                  1

   12 oz. can is 5 inches tall. This entire process (the redrawing and ironing) is done in one
   continuous punch stroke.
           The typical process of ironing deforms the metal between an ironing die and a
   punch sleeve. The metal is deformed under ultra-high forming pressures and loads, where
 5 the metal climbs or elongates up the punch surface as the container wall thickness is
   reduced and the container height is increased.       The friction of the tools in the ironing
   process often determines the resultant quality of the ironing process.
           Punch tooling (punch and die) is often made of hardened steel or tungsten carbide.
   A die is located on the opposite side of the workpiece and supports the material around the
10 perimeter of the container. There is a small amount of clearance between the punch and
   the die to prevent the punch from sticking in the die. The amount of clearance needed
   depends on the thickness of the workpiece (i.e., the metallic container), with thicker
   materials requiring more clearance, but the clearance is always less than the thickness of
   the workpiece.
15         Traditional treatments of the punch surface finish have been consistently
   monolithic applications to amend the surface finish in an effort to control friction and
   removability of the can from the tooling once ironed.         The friction of the punch, the
   ironing load, and the speed of the punch often determines the defect rates. Such defects
   are known as tearoffs.    "Tearoffs" are a primary defect observed in the normal ironing
20 process, where metal containers that experience excessive tensile loads have a portion of
   the container which breaks away from the remainder of the cylindrical container. The
   punch finish has a direct effect on the tear off frequency. Traditional treatments of the
   punch surface include polished surfaces or crosshatched surfaces that are applied to the
   entire surface of the punch such that the punch has a single surface treatment.        Punch
25 surface texture supports and improves container "stripability," i.e., removal from the
   punch and ironing die. Thus, punch surface finishes are used to facilitate and improve
   stripability and, as a result, reduce the defect rates of tear-offs during the manufacturing
   process.
           Common treatments of the punch surface include scoring the sidewall of the punch
30 sleeve in crosshatching patterns.      The angle and the coarseness of the crosshatching
   patterns may vary from punch to punch.
           All ductile materials stretch to some extent during punching, which often causes
   the punch to stick in the container. If this happens, the punch must be physically pulled
   back out of the container and the container must be pulled off of the punch. This process
                                                 2

   is known as "stripping" because you are stripping the can from the punch and the defect is
   called "removability." Additionally, the finer the finish on the punch, the more difficult
   the stripability (i.e., the ability to easily remove the can from the punch sleeve without
   excessive damage).
 5         A third defect common in metal container manufacturing is due to the interaction
   of the punch's normal surface treatments in relationship to ironing forces and the actual
   releasing of ironing pressure during discharge of metal from the ironing dies.         These
   defects are often described as "ears," "pinch points," or "feathered edges." Ears are ripples
   at the top of the metal container after the drawing and ironing process. Additionally, ears
10 are elongated regions with an irregular area that causes unequal loading of the ironing die
   and the resultant defects multiply creating feathered edges, pulled ears, or pinch points.
            The material of the punch is often a very durable material, such as carbides,
   ceramics, and/or tool steel. However, due to millions and millions of cycles these finished
   surfaces degrade over time due to friction.           The degradations cause deformation
15 inconsistencies and changes to the sidewall characteristics of the metal container.
   Numerous defects can occur and the container walls may contain defects that require
   removal from the production stream and ultimately reduce the efficiency of the production
   process.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20         Various embodiments and configurations of the present invention relate to a novel
   system, device, and method for providing surface texturing on a punch used to make metal
   food and beverage containers. The novel punch surface texture provided herein reduces
   the defect rate during the punching process. Features of the present invention may be
   employed in a wide range of food and beverage container manufacturing, including
25 metallic cans and metallic bottles.
           It is one aspect of various embodiments of the disclosure to provide a punch sleeve
   with specific surface texturing to facilitate the manufacture of metallic containers,
   including cans and bottles. The metal of the container is ironed over the surface of the
   punch sleeve with significant force and pressure as the metal walls of the container are
30 forced through dies and are compressed and placed into tension. Therefore, deformations
   of the metal occur as a result of the surface treatment of the punch.
                                                   3

            Thus, it is one aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure to provide a
   punch surface treatment that addresses and resolves specific quality defects. For example,
   the present invention can reduce and eliminate the quality defects caused by the ironing
   processes by uniquely designing the surface texture coarseness, finish treatment, and
 5 placement of textured regions on the exterior surface of the punch.
            It is a further aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure to provide
   punch surface texturing that improves container quality, reduces spoilage rates, and
   substantially eliminates the quality defect of slivers.     Slivers are created with normal
   crosshatch patterns as metal flakes and particles (i.e., "slivers") become trapped in the
10 grooves of the crosshatch texture.       These metal particles then become ironed into the
   container walls during post-ironing operations.         For example, a particle or multiple
   particles are created in the first or second ironing operations, then are deposited on or
   attached to the container walls during the third or fourth ironing operations. Embodiments
   of the present invention reduce slivers by reducing the intensity of the debris fields created
15 during the container manufacturing process, which reduces the number of defects. For
   example, using a punch sleeve according to embodiments of the present invention reduces
   the number of defective containers from 50 defects an hour using traditional punch sleeves
   to zero defects an hour using a punch sleeve according to embodiments of the present
   invention.
20         Another aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure is to provide
   punch surface texturing with a crosshatch pattern having a specific angle and roughness
   (micron level) that is designed to reduce the tear off rates and optimize production quality
   and throughput while maintaining stripability.
            The ability of the container to be removed from the punch efficiently at high
25 speeds without damage is critical to lightweight metal container manufacturing. Thus, one
   aspect of various embodiments of the present invention is to provide punch surface
   texturing that improves and enables better stripping on lower wall thicknesses and lighter
   containers at higher rates of production (i.e., speeds).
            One aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure is to provide a punch
30 with various surface textures that also uses at least one normal crosshatch pattern to retain
   the stripability of the surface finish. Therefore, the speed and integrity of the lightweight
   metal container is retained, while the quality defects are eliminated or minimized.
            It is one aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure to provide a metal
   can punch with various surface textures. It is another aspect of various embodiments of
                                                   4

   the present invention to provide a punch surface treatment with specific positional and
   regionalization of the texturing. Thus, in some embodiments, various surface textures are
   applied to the punch surface at critical regions to optimize and improve metal container
   manufacturing quality, reliability, speed, and throughput. Additionally, embodiments of
 5 the present invention retain the draw and iron process bandwidth, retain the capability for
   stripping, improve sliver suppression, and improve optimal edge quality.                In one
   embodiment of the present invention, the food or beverage container punch comprises two
   or more surface textures. Further, the food or beverage container punch can comprise of
   three distinct surface finishes. Alternatively, the punch can comprise four distinct surface
10 finishes.
           It is another aspect of various embodiments of the present disclosure to provide a
   metal bottle punch with various surface textures. The threaded and neck areas of bottles
   are hyper sensitive to deep crosshatch patterns. Therefore, a polished or control surface
   finish in the neck and thread regions of the bottle can be optimized as needed for the
15 desired results. Specifically, in some embodiments, the punch is smooth in the bottle's
   threaded area to reduce the occurrence of false positive curl cracks during machine vision
   inspections. Further, having a smooth punch surface in the bottle's threaded area improves
   the ability to form threads on the bottle during later steps in the bottle manufacturing
   process.
20         In one embodiment of the present invention, the punch surface contains two or
   more regions and each region contains a different predetermined texture.           The surface
   texture is often described herein using the "Ra" value for the surface.       Ra is a common
   roughness (also called surface roughness) parameter used in the art. Ra is the arithmetic
   average of the roughness profile of the surface, meaning that Ra is calculated using an
25 arithmetic average of absolute values from a two-dimensional roughness profile. Further,
   specific finishes and Ra ranges are designed into interactional regions of the punch to
   improve the container quality during the ironing process.         The application of surface
   finishes in specific regions allows the container walls to be less tapered, less oval, and less
   feathered and it also reduces or eliminates slivers.
30         For example, in one embodiment, the punch outer surface comprises polished
   regions or surfaces less than 8 Ra positioned at the corresponding heights of the container
   during the redraw process through the second container progressions such that the cut edge
   movements during ironing are optimized. The specific heights of these regions depend on
   the size of the finished container, which can be anywhere from 3 oz. to 32 oz. to 750 mL.
                                                  5

            In some embodiments, the punch sleeve is made of carbide. In other embodiments,
   the punch sleeve is made of steel or other metal alloy. In still other embodiments, the
   punch sleeve is made of a ceramic material.
            In various embodiments of the present invention, a metal container punch is
 5 provided that is manufactured with conventional manufacturing equipment. Alternatively,
   in some embodiments, the punch surface treatments are applied with a custom machine.
   In other embodiments, the custom surface treatments are applied by hand with skilled
   workmanship. However, the best application of treating/texturing multiple regions of the
   punch surface must remove and maintain constant material thickness and resultant
10 diameters of each of the textured regions. Thus, the machine is designed to remove the
   material of the base carbide, tool steel, or ceramic punch such that the entire surface of the
   punch is concentric, linear, and parallel.     The resultant metal container manufacturing
   process requires a consistent punch surface (meaning, for example, concentric, linear, and
   parallel) to produce consistent wall thickness and container weights.
15         As appreciated by one skilled in the art, the present disclosure could be used to
   manufacture 12 oz. cans, smaller metallic containers between about 3-11.5 oz., and larger
   metallic containers between about 13 oz. and 32 oz.            Embodiments of the present
   disclosure can also be used to manufacture 500 mL, 587 mL, and 750 mL metallic
   containers.
20          In one embodiment of the present disclosure, a punch used in a process to form
   metal containers is provided, the punch comprises a nose positioned on one end of the
   punch; a trailing edge positioned opposite the nose on a second end; a cylindrical portion
   positioned between the nose and the trailing edge; and an outer surface comprising: a first
   region proximate the nose and having a first length and a first surface finish; a second
25 region proximate to the first region and having a second length and a second surface
   finish, wherein the second surface finish is different than the first surface finish; and a
   third region positioned proximate to the second region and to the trailing edge, the third
   region having a third length and a third surface finish, wherein the third surface finish is
   different than the second surface finish.
30          In additional embodiments, the first surface finish comprises a crosshatch pattern
   and the second surface finish is polished between an Ra 2 and an Ra 8 finish. The third
   surface finish can also comprise a crosshatch pattern. In various embodiments, the first
   length of the first region is between about 1.0 inches and 2.0 inches, the second length of
                                                  6

   the second region is between about 1.0 inches and 2.0 inches, and the third length of the
   third region is about 1.0 and 2.5 inches.
           In one embodiment of the present disclosure, a method of texturing an exterior
   surface of a punch sleeve used in metallic container manufacturing is provided,
 5 comprising (a) providing the punch sleeve comprising a nose positioned on one end of the
   punch; a trailing edge positioned opposite the nose on a second end; a cylindrical portion
   positioned between the nose and the trailing edge; and an outer surface comprising a first
   region proximate the nose; a second region positioned proximate to the first region; and a
   third region position proximate to the second region and positioned proximate the trailing
10 edge; (b) applying a first crosshatch pattern to the first region using a first diamond
   impregnated tab with a first micron finish; (c) applying a second crosshatch pattern to the
   third region using a second diamond impregnated tab with a second micron finish; and (d)
   polishing the first region, the second region, and the third region.
           In a further embodiment of the present disclosure, the method further comprises
15 using an air pressure of about 30psi when applying the first crosshatch pattern; and
   positioning the first crosshatch pattern at an angle between about 30 degrees and 60
   degrees relative to a longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve. In various embodiments of the
   present disclosure, at least one of the first crosshatch pattern and the second crosshatch
   pattern is applied by rotating the punch at a first speed while simultaneously contacting an
20 exterior surface of the punch with at least one of the first diamond impregnated tab and the
   second diamond impregnated tab operating at a second speed.
           In one embodiment, a punch used in a manufacturing process to form metal
   containers is provided comprising: a nose positioned on one end of the punch; a trailing
   edge positioned opposite the nose on a second end of the punch; a cylindrical portion
25 positioned between the nose and the trailing edge; and an outer surface comprising: a first
   region positioned proximate to the nose and having a first length and a first surface finish;
   a second region positioned proximate to the trailing edge and having a second length and a
   second surface finish, wherein the second surface finish is different than the first surface
   finish; and a third region positioned proximate to at least one of the first region and the
30 second region and having a third length and a third surface finish, wherein the third
   surface finish is different than the second surface finish. In a further embodiment, the first
   surface finish comprises a first crosshatch pattern, and wherein the second surface finish
   comprises a second crosshatch pattern, the second crosshatch pattern is a 10-60 micron
   level crosshatch pattern and the first crosshatch pattern is a coarser crosshatch pattern than
                                                  7

   the second crosshatch pattern, and the third surface finish is polished between an Ra 2 and
   an Ra 8 finish. In some embodiments, the first region extends from a first point on the
   punch proximate the nose to a second point on the punch, and wherein the first length is
   between about 15 percent and about 35 percent of a total length of the punch, the third
 5 region extends from the second point on the punch to a third point on the punch, and
   wherein the third length is between about 15 percent and about 35 percent of the total
   length of the punch, and the second region extends from the third point on the punch to a
   fourth point on the punch, and wherein the second length is between about 15 percent and
   about 35 percent of the total length of the punch. In still further embodiments, the first
10 length of the first region is between about 1.0 inches and about 2.0 inches, the second
   length of the second region is between about 1.0 inches and about 2.5 inches, and the third
   length of the third region is between about 1.0 inches and about 2.0 inches. In some
   embodiments, the punch has a fourth region positioned between the first region and the
   third region and having a fourth length and a fourth surface finish.
15          In one embodiment, a method of texturing an exterior surface of a punch sleeve
   used in a metallic container manufacturing process is provided comprising: providing the
   punch sleeve, comprising: a nose positioned on one end of the punch sleeve; a trailing
   edge positioned opposite the nose on a second end; a cylindrical portion positioned
   between the nose and the trailing edge; and an outer surface comprising:         a first region
20 proximate the nose; a second region positioned proximate to the trailing edge; and a third
   region positioned between the first region and the second region; applying a first textured
   pattern to at least one of the first region, the second region, and the third region using a
   first etching tool with a first micron finish; applying a second textured pattern to at least
   one of the first region, the second region, and the third region using a second etching tool
25 with a second micron finish, wherein the second textured pattern is applied to a different
   region than the first textured pattern; and polishing the first region, the second region, and
   the third region. In further embodiments, the method includes using a force between about
   10 pounds and about 20 pounds when applying the first textured pattern, and wherein the
   first textured pattern is a crosshatch pattern.      In a further embodiment, the method
30 comprises positioning the first textured pattern at an angle between about 30 degrees and
   about 60 degrees relative to a longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve.              In another
   embodiment, the method comprises positioning the crosshatch pattern at an angle between
   about 30 degrees and about 60 degrees relative to a longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve.
   In some embodiments, at least one of the first textured pattern and the second textured
                                                  8

   pattern is a crosshatch pattern. In one embodiment, at least one of the first textured pattern
   and the second textured pattern is applied by rotating the punch sleeve at a first speed
   while simultaneously contacting an exterior surface of the punch sleeve with at least one
   of the first etching tool and the second etching tool, and wherein the at least one of the first
 5 etching tool and the second etching tool moves along a longitudinal axis of the punch
   sleeve at a second speed while simultaneously contacting the exterior surface of the punch
   sleeve. In one embodiment, wherein the first region has a first length between about 1.0
   inches and about 2.0 inches, the second region has a second length between about 1.0
   inches and about 2.5 inches, and the third region has a third length between about 1.0
10 inches and about 2.0 inches.
            In another embodiment, an apparatus for providing surface texturing on a punch
   sleeve used in a metal container manufacturing process, comprising: a connection
   mechanism positioned proximate to a first end of the apparatus, the connection mechanism
   configured to interconnect to one end of the punch sleeve, and wherein the connection
15 mechanism rotates the punch sleeve around a longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve; an arm
   positioned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve; and an etching tool for
   applying a first surface texture to a first region of an outer surface of the punch sleeve,
   said etching tool moveably interconnected to the arm such that the etching tool can be
   selectively positioned along the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve.             In further
20 embodiments, the apparatus comprises a means to apply a force on the etching tool in a
   direction toward the punch sleeve, wherein the connection mechanism rotates the punch
   sleeve while the etching tool simultaneously moves along the longitudinal axis of the
   punch sleeve. In various embodiments, the apparatus comprises a second etching tool for
   applying a second surface texture to a second region of the outer surface of the punch
25 sleeve, and a programmable logic system which operably communicates with the machine
   to control the positioning of the etching tool with respect to the punch sleeve. In still
   further embodiments, the etching tool comprises a diamond impregnated tab with a micron
   finish and the second etching tool comprises a second diamond impregnated tab with a
   second micron finish. In various embodiments, the etching tool further comprises an
30 etching tool holder or a tab holder, wherein the etching tool holder or the tab holder is
   interconnected to the arm and is configured to hold the etching tool or tab. In some
   embodiments, the apparatus further comprises an electronic display for displaying content,
   a processor, memory, and a communication interface to connect to a communication
   network.
                                                  9

           The phrases "at least one," "one or more," and "and/or," as used herein, are open
   ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example,
   each of the expressions "at least one of A, B and C," "at least one of A, B, or C," "one or
   more of A, B, and C," "one or more of A, B, or C," and "A, B, and/or C" means A alone, B
 5 alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A, B, and C
   together.
           Unless otherwise     indicated, all numbers expressing        quantities, dimensions,
   conditions, and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being
   modified in all instances by the term "about".
10         The term "a" or "an" entity, as used herein, refers to one or more of that entity. As
   such, the terms "a" (or "an"), "one or more," and "at least one" can be used
   interchangeably herein.
           The use of "including," "comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein is
   meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as
15 additional items.    Accordingly, the terms "including," "comprising," or "having" and
   variations thereof can be used interchangeably herein.
           It shall be understood that the term "means" as used herein shall be given its
   broadest   possible   interpretation   in  accordance     with   35  U.S.C.   Section  112(f).
   Accordingly, a claim incorporating the term "means" shall cover all structures, materials,
20 or acts set forth herein, and all of the equivalents thereof.         Further, the structures,
   materials, or acts and the equivalents thereof shall include all those described in the
   summary of the invention, brief description of the drawings, detailed description, abstract,
   and claims themselves.
           These and other advantages will be apparent from the disclosure of the invention(s)
25 contained herein. The above-described embodiments, objectives, and configurations are
   neither complete nor exhaustive. The Summary of the Invention is neither intended nor
   should it be construed as being representative of the full extent and scope of the present
   invention. Moreover, references made herein to "the present invention" or aspects thereof
   should be understood to mean certain embodiments of the present invention and should
30 not necessarily be construed as limiting all embodiments to a particular description. The
   present invention is set forth in various levels of detail in the Summary of the Invention as
   well as in the attached drawings and the Detailed Description and no limitation as to the
   scope of the present invention is intended by either the inclusion or non-inclusion of
   elements, components, etc. in this Summary of the Invention. Additional aspects of the
                                                  10

   present invention will become more readily apparent from the Detailed Description,
   particularly when taken together with the drawings.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the
 5 specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the Summary of
   the Invention given above and the Detailed Description of the drawings given below, serve
   to explain the principles of these embodiments.       In certain instances, details that are not
   necessary for an understanding of the invention or that render other details difficult to
   perceive may have been omitted. It should be understood, of course, that the invention is
10 not necessarily limited to the particular embodiments illustrated herein. Additionally, it
   should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale.
            Fig. 1 is a front perspective view of a punch sleeve generally having a nose, a
   trailing edge, and three distinct textured surfaces therebetween;
            Fig. 2 is a front perspective view of a punch sleeve where a first region and a third
15 region are exaggerated for illustration purposes;
           Fig. 3 is a cross-sectional view of a punch sleeve taken along a longitudinal line of
   the punch sleeve;
           Fig. 4 is a front perspective view of a punch sleeve;
           Fig. 5 is a front perspective view of a punch sleeve where a first region and a third
20 region are exaggerated for illustration purposes; and
           Fig. 6 is a side elevation view of a punch sleeve being manufactured on a machine
   used to produce the punch's surface texture according to embodiments of the present
   invention.
            To assist in the understanding of the embodiments of the present invention the
25 following list of components and associated numbering found in the drawings is provided
   herein:
            Component No.                   Component Name
                    2                      Punch Sleeve
                    6                      Nose
30                   10                    First Region
                     14                     Second Region
                     18                     Third Region
                    22                      Trailing Edge
                                                   11

   26  End Section
   32  Inner Surface
   36  End Portion
   40  Punch Sleeve
 5 44  First Region
   48  Second Region
   52  Third Region
   56  End Section
   70  Punch Sleeve
10 74  Precision Mounting Surface
   90  Punch Sleeve
   94  First Region
   98  Second Region
   102 Third Region
15 106 End Section
   120 Punch Sleeve
   124 First Region
   128 Second Region
   132 Third Region
20 136 End Section
   200 Machine
   204 Punch Sleeve
   208 Marker
   212 Holder
25 216 Arm
   218 Channel or Groove
   220 Connection Piece
   224 Marker Marks
   D1  Diameter
30 D2  Diameter
   D3  Diameter
   LI  Length
   L2  Length
   L3  Length
35 L4  Length
   L5  Length
   L6  Length
   L7  Second Region
              12

           Similar components and/or features may have the same reference label. Further,
   various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference
   label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first
   reference label is used, the description is applicable to any one of the similar components
 5 having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Although the following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different
   embodiments, it should be understood that the legal scope of the description is defined by
   the words of the claims set forth at the end of this disclosure. The detailed description is to
10 be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since
   describing every possible embodiment would be impractical, if not impossible. Numerous
   alternative embodiments could be implemented, using either current technology or
   technology developed after the filing date of this patent, which would still fall within the
   scope of the claims. To the extent that any term recited in the claims at the end of this
15 patent is referred to in this patent in a manner consistent with a single meaning, that is
   done for sake of clarity only so as to not confuse the reader, and it is not intended that such
   claim term be limited, by implication or otherwise, to that single meaning.
           The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the
   specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the summary of
20 the invention given above and the detailed description of the drawings given below, serve
   to explain the principles of the invention.
           It should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale, and various
   dimensions may be altered. In certain instances, details that are not necessary for an
   understanding of the invention or that render other details difficult to perceive may have
25 been omitted. It should be understood, of course, that the invention is not necessarily
   limited to the particular embodiments illustrated herein.
           Various embodiments of the present invention are described herein and as depicted
   in the drawings. It is expressly understood that although the figures depict metal container
   punches, and methods and systems for using and manufacturing the same, the present
30 invention is not limited to these embodiments. It should also be understood that the terms
   "container" and "container body" may be used interchangeably in some instances.
                                                 13

            Referring to Fig. 1, a punch sleeve 2 is shown (also called a "punch" herein). This
   punch sleeve 2 is designed to punch metal cans or other metallic containers.          In one
   embodiment, the punch sleeve 2 is designed to punch lightweight 7.5 oz. metal cans,
   which can be manufactured using only two ironing operations.              However, in some
 5 embodiments, the lightweight 7.5 oz. metal cans are manufactured using three ironing
   operations. Thus, the ideal dimensions and proportions of the various regions for a punch
   2 for manufacturing lightweight 7.5 oz. metal cans are shown in Fig. 1. However, in other
   embodiments, other dimensions and proportions can be used on a punch sleeve to
   manufacture different sized metallic containers, e.g., 12 oz. cans, 16 oz. cans, 24 oz. cans,
10 etc. Additionally, the lengths of the regions 10, 14, 18, 26 may be different in different
   embodiments. Further, additional regions may also be included in other embodiments.
            The punch sleeve 2 has a nose 6, a trailing edge 22, an inner surface 32, an outer
   surface 36, and a mounting transition section 26 proximate the trailing edge 22.         The
   mounting transition section 26 is tapered from the diameter of the third region 18 to the
15 diameter of the ram at the trailing edge 22 of the punch 2. The ram is the part of the punch
   machine to which the punch 2 is mounted or interconnected at the trailing edge 22 of the
   punch 2. The outer surface 36 of the punch sleeve 2 comprises three (or more) regions: a
   first region 10, a second region 14, and a third region 18.     In various embodiments, the
   nose 6 of the punch sleeve 2 does not have crosshatching. Further, the mounting transition
20 section 26 also does not have crosshatching because this portion of the punch 2 is not
   intended to contact the metallic container. The surface of the mounting transition section
   26 is "as ground."
            The first region 10 has a coarse crosshatch pattern and extends from a point above
   the punch nose 6 to the height of the redrawn cup in one embodiment or to about 0.5
25 inches below the height of the redrawn cup in a second embodiment. The redrawn cup is
   the first stage of the drawn and ironing process.      This stage transforms the cup into a
   smaller diameter cylinder, which is then ready for the ironing process. It is a redrawing
   process, and not necessarily an ironing process, but some metal shape and transformation
   takes place. Elimination of wrinkles in the container during the redrawing process is key
30 to optimize performance.      The positioning of the first region 10 enables the edge of the
   cup to clear the first region's 10 crosshatch pattern by a sufficient amount to not hinder
   performance.     Note that the length of the first region 10 may change slightly for each
   specific can size and starting metal gauge. A rougher surface Ra finish coarseness may be
   used in the first region 10 because this is the thickest container wall and the lowest
                                                 14

   compressive loads of the punch processes are experienced in the first region 10.
   Stripability is also maintained by using a surface finish coarseness that facilitates
   stripping.
            In the embodiment shown, the second region 14 extends from the end of the first
 5 region 10 to the top edge of the last progression height, meaning the second region 14
   extends to the height of the container after the last ironing progression, which may be a
   first ironing progression, second ironing progression, third ironing progression, etc. In one
   embodiment, the second region 14 has a surface pattern that is polished to below an Ra 12
   finish. In another embodiment, the second region 14 has a surface pattern that is polished
10 to between an Ra 2 and an Ra 8 finish. The second region 14's surface is relatively smooth
   and without scratches or grooves because scratches and grooves create slivers of small
   metal particles, which cause defects in later processing steps. The surface treatment of the
   second region 14 is designed to suppress particle fragments and sliver generation from the
   ironing process. Each can size has a banded region (which corresponds to the second
15 region 14) that is located at a starting height just below the height of the redrawn cup and
   extends up the punch cylinder 2 to just above the height of the second ironing progression
   height in a normal 3-die tool pack arrangement. On multiple ironing die embodiments, the
   banded section would extend to just above the edge locations of the final ironing height.
   The surface texture and length of the second region 14 is specifically designed to eliminate
20 debris and sliver generation.
            In some embodiments, the second region 14 is broken into multiple regions for
   applications where distances between progression heights dictate some roughness for
   improved stripability. However, the top edge of each progression height would optimize
   sliver or debris suppression with specific surface texturing as described above.        Thus,
25 having a smooth the second region 14 eliminates or reduces the reattachment of the slivers
   created during the metal container manufacturing process.
            The third region 18 may extend from the end of the second region 14 to a point at
   or above the transition from a midwall to a topwall of the container.               In some
   embodiments, the third region 18 is interconnected to the end portion 36.         The desired
30 surface finish for the third region 18 is the lightest micron level required, which aids
   stripability. The surface finish of the third region 18 is generally between a 10-60 micron
   level crosshatch pattern. Thus, the crosshatch pattern on the third region 18 is lighter than
   the crosshatch pattern on the first region 10. The pattern angularity may result in some
   process benefit but ideally the crosshatch pattern in the third region 18 is between about
                                                  15

   30-60 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the punch 2.            Alternatively, the
   crosshatch pattern may be positioned at an angle between 20 degrees and 80 degrees
   relative to the longitudinal axis of the punch 2.
           In some embodiments, the third region 18 is polished prior to crosshatching. Thus,
 5 a polished surface is first produced and then a crosshatch pattern is applied on top of the
   polished surface.     In other embodiments, the order is reversed: a crosshatch pattern is
   applied to the third region 18 and then a polished treatment is applied to the third region
    18 to smooth the surface edges and sharpness.        Further, punches used to manufacture
   bottles can also benefit from a polished the third region 18 because the bottle drawn and
10 ironed container requires smoothness in the neck area for optimal threading. The smooth
   region of the punch used to create the neck portion of the bottle may be the third region 18
   in some embodiments or may be a fourth region (not shown) in other embodiments,
   depending on the height of the bottle and the progression-height correspondence.          The
   region of the punch used to create the neck portion of the bottle must have a surface finish
15 that is specially applied and designed for improved bottle necking, coating adhesion, and
   threading performance. Because the threaded and neck areas of bottles are hyper sensitive
   to deep crosshatch patterns, a polished or control surface finish in the neck and thread
   regions of the bottle is typically used.
            Fig. 2 is another embodiment of a punch sleeve 40 with three regions: a first region
20 44, a second region 48, and a third region 52. The punch sleeve 40 has a nose 6, a trailing
   edge 22, an inner surface 32, an outer surface 36, and a mounting transition section 26
   proximate the trailing edge 22.      The mounting transition section 56 is tapered from the
   diameter of the third region 52 to the diameter of the ram at the trailing edge 22 of the
   punch 40.      Further, the mounting transition section 56 does not have crosshatching
25 because this portion of the punch 40 is not intended to contact the metallic container. The
   surface of the mounting transition section 56 is "as ground."         The crosshatch patterns
   shown on the first region 44 and the second region 48 are exaggerated for illustration
   purposes. Thus, the angle and pattern of the crosshatching applied to the first region 44
   and the second region 48 can clearly be seen in Fig. 2. The locations of the regions 44, 48,
30 52 are determined by the position of the container at each stage of the drawn and ironing
   process, as was discussed in Fig. 1.         Specifically, the first region 44 has a coarse
   crosshatch pattern and extends from a point above the punch nose 6 to the height of the
   redrawn cup or to about 0.5 inches below the height of the redrawn cup.            A rougher
   surface Ra finish coarseness may be used in the first region 44 because this is the thickest
                                                  16

   container wall and the lowest compressive loads of the punch processes are experienced in
   the first region 44. Stripability is also maintained by using a surface finish coarseness that
   facilitates stripping. The second region 48 extends from the end of the first region 44 to
   the top edge of the last progression height, meaning the second region 48 extends to the
 5 height of the container after the first ironing progression. The third region 52 may extend
   from the end of the second region 48 to a point at or above the transition from a midwall to
   a topwall. The desired surface finish for the third region 52 is the lightest micron level
   required, which aids stripability. The surface finish of the third region 52 is generally
   between a 10-60 micron level crosshatch pattern.
10          Fig. 3 shows a cross-section view of the punch sleeve 70 cut down the longitudinal
   axis of the punch sleeve 70. The nose 6 of the punch sleeve 70 is positioned on one end
   and the trailing edge 22 is positioned on the other end. In this embodiment, the punch
   sleeve 70 is designed to punch lightweight 7.5 oz. metal cans, which are manufactured
   using only two ironing operations.        Thus, ideal dimensions for the various regions are
15 provided herein below. However, in other embodiments, other dimensions can be used to
   manufacture different sized metallic containers, e.g., 12 oz. cans, 16 oz. cans, 24 oz. cans,
   etc. Additional regions may also be included in other embodiments. For example, in one
   embodiment a 24 oz. can is manufactured using three ironing operations. Therefore, the
   punch used to make the 24 oz. can may have four regions to accommodate the additional
20 ironing operation. Alternatively, the 24 oz. can punch may only have three regions and
   the length of the second region L7 will be longer than is shown in Fig. 3. One skilled in
   the art will appreciate embodiments of punch sleeves, and methods of producing punch
   sleeves, that have one region, two regions, three regions, four regions, five regions, etc.
   can fall within the scope of the present invention. Each food and beverage container size
25 has specific heights and regions (i.e., locations) for maintaining stripability and optimizing
   performance, which reduces undesirable quality defects.          Further, the patterns of the
   crosshatch areas are adjusted based on the number of ironing steps or die setups in the
   forming process. Additionally, the shape and geometry of the nose 6 of the punch 70
   shown is typical for a metal beverage can. This shape and geometry will likely stay the
30 same for other sized beverage cans. However, this shape and geometry may change for
   metal wine bottles and metal food containers. Furthermore, the nose 6 of the punch 70
   typically will not have crosshatching.
            In Fig. 3, the first region spans length L6 and begins a length L5 from the tip of the
   nose 6 of the punch sleeve 70.       The length L5 is approximately 0.2407 inches (6.114mm)
                                                    17

   in one embodiment. The first region ends approximately 1.75 inches (44.5 mm) from the
   tip of the nose 6 in some embodiments of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can. In the embodiment
   shown in Fig. 3, the first region has a length L6 between about 1 inch and about 2 inches.
   In a preferred embodiment of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can, the first region has a length L6
 5 between about 1.25 inches and about 1.75 inches. In a more preferred embodiment of a
   punch for a 7.5 oz. can, the first region has a length L6 of about 1.5 inches.
            In the embodiment shown in Fig. 3, the second region spans length L7 and begins
   at the end of the first region. The second region ends approximately 3.25 inches (82.6
   mm) from the tip of the nose 6 of the punch sleeve 70. In the embodiment of the 7.5 oz.
10 can punch sleeve 70 shown in Fig. 3, the second region has a length L7 between about 1
   inch and about 2 inches. In a preferred embodiment of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can, the
   second region has a length L7 between about 1.25 inches and about 1.75 inches. In a more
   preferred embodiment of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can, the second region has a length L7 of
   about 1.5 inches.
15          In the embodiment shown in Fig. 3, the third region spans length L8 and begins at
   the end of the second region. The third region ends approximately 5.0 inches (127 mm)
   from the tip of the nose 6 of the punch sleeve 70. In the embodiment of the 7.5 oz. can
   punch sleeve 70 shown in Fig. 3, the third region has a length L8 between about 1 inch
   and about 2.5 inches. In a preferred embodiment of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can, the third
20 region has a length L8 between about 1.5 inches and about 2.0 inches. In a more preferred
   embodiment of a punch 70 for a 7.5 oz. can, the third region has a length L8 of about 1.75
   inches.
            In Fig. 3, the length LI of the punch 70 is about 6.250 inches, the length L2 is
   about 0.700 inches, the length L3 is about 5.550 inches, and the length L4 is about 5.000
25 inches. In this embodiment, the outer diameter D1 of the punch 70 is between about 2.257
   inches and about 2.2630 inches.        In some embodiments, the outer diameter D1 of the
   punch 70 is constant from the point where the first region begins proximate the nose to the
   point where the third regions ends proximate the trailing edge 22. Somewhere beyond the
   point where the third region ends (i.e., a point between the third region and the trailing
30 edge 22) the outer diameter of the punch 70 tapers to a smaller outer diameter. Thus, the
   outer diameter D1 of the first region is the same as the outer diameter D1 of the second
   region, which is the same as the outer diameter D1 of the third region.             In other
   embodiments, the outer diameter D1 of the punch 70 varies along the length LI of the
   punch 70, for example for punches used to manufacture bottles. Thus, the outer diameter
                                                  18

   D1 of the first region can be different than the outer diameter D1 of the second region,
   which can be different than the outer diameter D1 of the third region. The inner diameter
   D2 of the punch 70 proximate the nose 6 is about 1.8112 inches. The inner surface 32 of
   the punch has a raised portion called a journal or a precision mounting surface 74 that is
 5 bolted to the ram of the punching machine.         The inner diameter D3 of the precision
   mounting surface 74 is about 1.501 inches.
            Fig. 4 shows an alternate embodiment of a punch sleeve 90 designed to punch
   metal cans. This punch sleeve may be used to form a 24 oz. can, or as appreciated by one
   skilled in the art any alternative sized container. The punch sleeve 90 has a nose 6, a
10 trailing edge 22, an inner surface 32 with a precision mounting surface 74, a mounting
   transition section 106 proximate the trailing edge 22, and an outer surface 36 with three
   regions: a first region 94, the second region 98, and a third region 102. The locations of
   the regions 94, 98, 102 are determined by the position of the container at each stage of the
   drawn and ironing process, as was discussed in Fig. 1. Specifically, the first region 94 has
15 a coarse crosshatch pattern and extends from a point above the punch nose 6 to the height
   of the redrawn cup or to about 0.5 inches below the height of the redrawn cup. A rougher
   surface Ra finish coarseness may be used in the first region 94 because this is the thickest
   container wall and the lowest compressive loads of the punch processes are experienced in
   the first region 94. Stripability is also maintained by using a surface finish coarseness that
20 facilitates stripping. The second region 98 extends from the end of the first region 94 to
   the top edge of the last progression height, meaning the second region 98 extends to the
   height of the container after the first ironing progression. In one embodiment, the second
   region 98 is polished. The third region 102 may extend from the end of the second region
   98 to a point at or above the transition from a midwall to a topwall. The desired surface
25 finish for the third region 102 is the lightest micron level required, which aids stripability.
   The surface finish of the third region 102 is generally between a 10-60 micron level
   crosshatch pattern.     The mounting transition section 106 does not have crosshatching
   because this portion of the punch 90 is not intended to contact the metallic container. The
   surface of the mounting transition section 106 is "as ground."         Further, the mounting
30 transition section 106 is tapered from the diameter of the third region 102 to the diameter
   of the ram at the trailing edge 22 of the punch 90.
            Fig. 5 is another embodiment of a punch sleeve 120 with three regions: a first
   region 124, a second region 128, and a third region 132. The punch sleeve 120 has a nose
   6, a trailing edge 22, an inner surface 32 with a precision mounting surface 74, an outer
                                                  19

   surface 36, and a mounting transition section 136 proximate the trailing edge 22.       The
   crosshatch patterns used on the first region 124 and the third region 132 are exaggerated
   for illustration purposes. Thus, the angle and pattern of the crosshatching applied to the
   first region 124 and the third region 132 can clearly be seen in Fig. 5. The surface of the
 5 mounting transition section 136 is "as ground." The locations of the regions 124, 128, 132
   and the mounting transition section 136 are determined by the position of the container at
   each stage of the drawn and ironing process, as was discussed in aforementioned figures
   and will not be repeated here.
            Fig. 6 depicts a punch sleeve 204 positioned on the surface finish applying
10 machine 200. The machine 200 adds the surface finish, which can include a crosshatch
   pattern, to the outer surface of the punch sleeve 204. In the drawing, a crosshatch pattern
   has been applied to a portion of the punch sleeve 204 and the positioning of the crosshatch
   pattern is shown via the marker marks 224. The machine 200 includes a connection piece
   220 and the punch sleeve 204 is interconnected to the machine 200 via the connection
15 piece 220. The machine 200 rotates the connection piece 220 such that the punch sleeve
   204 is rotated around its longitudinal axis and the surface finish can be applied in a
   crosshatch pattern. An etching tool, which may be a diamond-impregnated tab or other
   tab or tool, is positioned where the marker 208 is shown in Fig. 6. The etching tool (or
   marker as is the case in the illustrative example in Fig. 6) is held by a holder 212 that
20 slides along the arm 216 of the machine 200 such that the etching tool can move up and
   down the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve 204. In some embodiments, the etching
   tool and holder 212 are one piece and in other embodiments they are separate components
   such that only the etching tool must be changed when a different etching tool is desired to
   create different surface textures on the punch sleeve 204. The arm is substantially linear
25 and oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve 204. The
   arm 216 comprises a groove or channel 218 running along the arm's longitudinal axis.
   The channel 218 is substantially linear and oriented substantially parallel to the
   longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve 204, which allows the holder 212 to travel within the
   channel and along the length of the arm 216. The holder 212 is interconnected to the arm
30 216 via the channel or groove 218 such that the holder 212 can move along the arm 216
   and along the punch sleeve 204. The crosshatch pattern or other texturing pattern is
   created by the punch sleeve 204 rotating at a predetermined speed as the etching tool
   moves up and down the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve 204 (by moving along the
   arm 216 of the machine 200) while the etching tool is touching the outer surface of the
                                                 20

   punch sleeve 204. A predetermined pressure or force is applied to the external surface of
   the punch sleeve 204 via the etching tool to create a finish with the desired characteristics,
   e.g., the depths of the grooves of the crosshatch pattern. In one embodiment, the amount
   of force applied to the punch sleeve 204 outer surface by the etching tool is between about
 5  10 pounds and about 20 pounds. In one embodiment, the amount of force applied to the
   punch sleeve 204 outer surface by the etching tool is about 15 pounds. The distance the
   etching tool moves up and down the outer surface of the punch sleeve 204 is
   predetermined by the user and set as a parameter for the machine 200. Thus, the surface
   texture can be applied to the desired portion (e.g., a first region, a second region, a third
10 region, etc.) of the punch sleeve 204 outer surface. Further, as appreciated by one skilled
   in the art, the crosshatch pattern can be modified in an almost endless number of patterns,
   including being modified to be more or less dense, to be at different angles, to have
   alternative geometric patterns, and to have different lengths of texturing.
            In some embodiments, the machine comprises a processor, memory, an input
15 device (which can be a touch-screen display surface configured to receive touch input), a
   display to display content, and a power source (which can be a battery). The machine can
   further include data storage, software, a user interface, an input device, an output device, a
   communication network, such as Bluetooth or WiFi, and/or a communication interface for
   communicating with another smart phone or computing device and/or the communication
20 network.     In further embodiments, the processor can include any processor capable of
   performing instructions encoded in software or firmware. Further, the processor can be
   provided to execute instructions contained within the memory and/or data storage. The
   processor can comprise a controller or application specific integrated circuit (ASIC)
   having or capable of performing instructions encoded in logic circuits. The memory may
25 be used to store programs or data, including data comprising content. As examples, the
   memory may comprise RAM, SDRAM, or other solid state memory. Alternatively or in
   addition, data storage may be provided. The data storage may generally include storage
   for programs and data. In one embodiment, the machine comprises a programmable logic
   system that operably communicates with the machine to control the positioning of the
30 etching tool with respect to the punch sleeve. As such, a user can program the machine to
   create any number of desired surface textures on the desired regions of the punch sleeve.
   The machine then will automatically texture and polish the desired portions of the punch
   sleeve.
                                                 21

            In some embodiments, the method of providing surface texture on the punch sleeve
   comprises applying a first textured pattern to the first region using a first etching tool with
   a first micron finish, applying a force between about 10 pounds and 20 pounds on the
   punch sleeve to scratch the punch sleeve, and positioning the textured pattern at between
 5 about 30 degrees and 60 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the punch. In one
   embodiment, the first etching tool is a first diamond impregnated tab.                In some
   embodiments, the textured pattern is a crosshatch pattern.        In some embodiments, the
   machine used to apply the textured pattern and other surface finishes to the outer surface
   of the punch sleeve uses a pneumatic cylinder and an adjustable air pressure to apply the
10 force on the etching tool on the punch sleeve. In one embodiment, this force is applied by
   using an air pressure of about 30psi. In other embodiments, the machine used to apply the
   textured pattern and other surface finishes to the outer surface of the punch sleeve uses
   mechanical or hydraulic means of creating pressure or force on the etching tool on the
   punch sleeve. Next, applying a third textured pattern to the third region using a second
15 etching tool with a second micron finish, using an air pressure of about 30psi, and
   positioning the third textured pattern at between about 30 degrees and 60 degrees relative
   to the longitudinal axis of the punch. In one embodiment, the second etching tool is a
   second diamond impregnated tab. Then polish the first, second, and third regions of the
   punch sleeve. Alternatively, the punch may be polished before the textured patterns or
20 crosshatch patterns are applied to the first and third regions. To crosshatch punch sleeves
   according to embodiments of the present invention, the crosshatching machine will use
   special cams and special attachments (e.g., working heads) for different surfacing
   technologies.
            Each food and beverage container size has specific heights and regions (i.e.,
25 locations) of greater value for maintaining stripability and optimizing performance, which
   reduces undesirable quality defects.     The patterns of the textured area (including the
   crosshatched areas) are adjusted based on the number of ironing steps or die setups in the
   forming process.
            While various embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail,
30 it is apparent that modifications and alterations of those embodiments will occur to those
   skilled in the art. However, it is to be expressly understood that such modifications and
   alterations are within the scope and spirit of the present invention, as set forth in the
   following claims. Further, the invention(s) described herein is capable of other
   embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. It is to be
                                                 22

  understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of
  description and should not be regarded as limiting. It will be understood that the term
  "comprise" and any of its derivatives (eg comprises, comprising) as used in this
  specification is to be taken to be inclusive of features to which it refers, and is not meant to
5 exclude the presence of any additional features unless otherwise stated or implied.
          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
  as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the
  common general knowledge.
                                                23

                                              CLAIMS
            1.     An apparatus for providing surface texturing on a punch sleeve used in a
   metal container manufacturing process, comprising:
           a connection mechanism positioned proximate to a first end of the apparatus, the
 5 connection mechanism configured to interconnect to one end of the punch sleeve, and
   wherein the connection mechanism rotates the punch sleeve around a longitudinal axis of
   the punch sleeve;
           an arm positioned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the punch sleeve; and
           an etching tool for applying a first surface texture to a first region of an outer
10 surface of the punch sleeve, said etching tool moveably interconnected to the arm such
   that the etching tool can be selectively positioned along the longitudinal axis of the punch
   sleeve.
           2.      The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a means to apply a force on
15 the etching tool in a direction toward the punch sleeve.
           3.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the connection mechanism rotates the
   punch sleeve while the etching tool simultaneously moves along the longitudinal axis of
   the punch sleeve.
20
           4.      The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a second etching tool for
   applying a second surface texture to a second region of the outer surface of the punch
   sleeve.
25         5.      The apparatus of Claim 1, further comprising a programmable logic system
   which operably communicates with the apparatus to control the positioning of the etching
   tool with respect to the punch sleeve.
           6.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the etching tool comprises a diamond
30 impregnated tab with a micron finish.
                                                  24

                                     <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                        <U+261B>
                                                          <U+261B><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+2706><U+271D>
                                                     <U+261B><U+271D>
                                                <U+271E><U+2721>
                                           <U+271E><U+2720>
                                <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706><U+261B>
                            <U+271D>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

                                 <U+2702><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+261B><U+261B>
                   <U+2706><U+271D>
                                                 <U+2701><U+271D>
                                            <U+2701><U+261B>
                                       <U+2720><U+2721>
                            <U+2720><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+261B>
                        <U+271D>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                            <U+270F><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                            <U+2721><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                                                                     <U+270C><U+271F>
                                       <U+270E><U+261B>
                             <U+271F><U+261B>
                                                                          <U+260E><U+2704>
                   <U+2720><U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2702><U+2701>
                                       <U+2706><U+261B>
                        <U+261E><U+261B>
                                       <U+270C><U+261B>         <U+261E><U+2706>
                                             <U+271F><U+271E>
                             <U+2721><U+261B>
                                                       <U+2721><U+271F>
                                  <U+270D><U+261B>
                                             <U+2721><U+271E>                  <U+270C>
                                             <U+2720><U+271E>
              <U+271D><U+2706>

<removed-date>
                                  <U+2702><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2721>
                          <U+270C>
                          <U+271D>
                          <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                        <U+2721>
                                        <U+271D>
                                        <U+2720>
                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                                            <U+270E>
                                                <U+2701>
                                                    <U+261E>
                                                        <U+2701>
                              <U+270C>
                              <U+271F>
                                                                    <U+261E>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                    <U+2706>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                <U+270C>
                                                            <U+2721>
                                                            <U+271F>

<removed-date>
                              <U+2701><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2721>
                      <U+270C>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+2720>
<removed-apn>                          <U+2721>
                                    <U+271F>
                                    <U+2720>
                                                        <U+2704>
                                                        <U+2702>
                                                        <U+2701>
                                        <U+270E>
                                        <U+2721>
                                        <U+2720>
                                            <U+261E>
                                            <U+2721>
                                            <U+2720>
                          <U+270C>
                          <U+271F>
                                                        <U+261E>
                                                        <U+2706>
                  <U+271D>
                  <U+2721>
                  <U+2720>
                                                    <U+270C>
                                                <U+2721>
                                                <U+271F>

                                  <U+270D><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                                                          <U+261B><U+271F><U+271F>
<removed-apn>          <U+261B><U+271E><U+2721>         <U+261B><U+271E><U+271D>                 <U+261B><U+271F><U+2721>
                                              <U+261B><U+271E><U+261B>
              <U+261B><U+261B><U+271F>         <U+261B><U+271F><U+2720>           <U+261B><U+261B><U+2720>
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

