STORE AND SHARE SHED
SPECIFICATION
The Invention is described in the following statement
SECTION 3/ page 1.
ABSTRACT
Since time began, local, and globally, people, individuals, families, government have bought, owned,
acquired, for short, daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, use, varied sport, leisure, recreation items and
then parked them. Much of this equipment has been privately bought, and is diverse, and some bought
at considerable, cost. When residents die much of their lifetime collected equipment is lost. And they
are limited to use what they can personally afford.
This invention provides for all local residents, of any income, having any equipment , being able,
with their Community Store and Share Shed, to contribute their individual equipment of any type
to the managed, leisure equipment, storage, shed that provides all equipment contributor, with priority
access to their own gear , and allow it at other times for shared use, through this 7 day accessible ,
facility. It will provide a secure storage shed , and one able to be extended, where, all resident diverse
sport, recreation, leisure, hobby, health improvement equipment, weights, wheel chairs, and the like
can be stored, managed, maintained, insured and while in the storage have all equipment be accessible
as individual use items by all contributors, for periods and conditions as decided by their elected
governing committee to represent all equipment owner, contributors. It will include items like
tennis rackets, video cameras, cricket equipment, free standing basketball hoops, telescopes, artists
easels, skateboards, billy carts, water ski boats, hiking back packs, camping gear, magnifying glasses,
portable canoes, gardening tools, and other gear.
It is an invention to improve the quality of life of all contributing residents, and for them to enable, as
they may want, via their elected contributors governing committee's arrangements , to attract increased
long stay visitors, both domestic, and from overseas, to their Town, or village that has the Community
owned and run Store and Share Shed. It is different to other cooperatives in that it gives ongoing 1"
priority equipment use via their elected governing committee, to each items contributor, then to other
equipment contributors, then to near community residents then to inbound Australia wide domestic
and international visitors. It is the Ultimate Community , every aspect enhancing asset.
VIZ: Resident's quality of life, and as an attraction for otherwise parked, non used multi type recreation
equipment, to sustain and grow their town.

STORE AND SHARE SHED
SPECIFICATION
The Invention is described in the following statement
SECTION 1/ page 1.
DESCRIPTION
COMMUNITY INDIVIDUAL'S, POOLED EQUIPMENT, STORE & SHARE SHED FACILITIY
This is a large secure, contributor accessible, managed, storage Shed,
located within, or near to a community, where any, or all, community residents,
can decide to locate one or all of their available, privately owned, privately kept, but not
limited to, working, sports, research, special interest reading book collections, ,
transport, hiking, camping , house and garden maintenance, gymnastic, photographic,
sports gear, ski boats, and all other diverse equipment, as provided for the ongoing
contributor's use of each item , & for its use by another contributing owner, and others,
as an elected governing committee, representing all contributing owners, may decide.
The contributing user, elected governing committee, facility management, bring
responsible for all contributed equipment's, security, access, maintenance, insurance,
term of use, minimal non profit usage charges, and who may use each item.

STORE AND SHARE SHED
SPECIFICATION
The Invention is described in the following statement
SECTION 2/ page 1.
CLAIMS
   1. The Shed may be of a first size, that can be increased in size to enable greater capacity for
       added equipment, and for its best storage for all contributors easy access of items.
   2.  The Shed will overcome the problem for a resident, to provide public access and use to their
       privately owned, not being always used, privately parked, stored, shelved, leisure and other
       equipment as defined in the description Section 1 Page 1.
   3.  The Shed, with its multiple stored items, representing all different types of equipment,
       that are bought separately by individuals and families, and kept at their private residence,
       in order to occasionally access them, will provide a wide variety, and large amount of
       accessible equipment that a Governing Committee may use, to further progress
       a Community's ability to attract, and only as the contributors may decide:
           A. To attract more new community residents , who seek access to the contents of their
                Store & Share Shed to take up local residence
           B. To increase the numbers of vistors and tourists to their community
           C. To increase the length of stay of present and future visitors to their community
           D. To allow Council to promote new residential, retirement dwellers to their community
               with planned new subdivisions.
   4.  The Shed will overcome the age interest in bought equipment, such that equipment bought
       for one age , such as yard swings , that are contributed to the Shared Use Storage Facility,
       can allow the contributors subsequent access to older age appealing equipment such as,
       portable billiard tables, and dart boards, chess and checkers sets, card table and moveable,
       stand alone basketball hoops.
   5. The Shed will allow contributing older residents , keeping early model vintage cars , to access
       use of many other, different type, vintage cars.
   6. The Shed will allow a contributing, equipment owner, "with limited funds",
       of all ages, for no further expenditure, to access 100's more of varied equipment,
       that no longer requires their further expenditure, and overcomes the, rich, poor, conundrum
       of who can access a great variety of sports, leisure, hobby, health, research, study, equipment
   7. The Store and Share Shed will provide secure, management, maintenance, insurance,
       and priority access to an individual contributor's equipment, and that of others, as they would
       like or need it, in accord with its governing commiittee's management and rules.
   8.   The Store and Share Shed includes the housing for all "special interest book, DVD,
       collections," such that a person who has collected through their life , famous writer novels,
       gardening , art, magic, history, sport, health books, and the likes, may have a place to leave
       their private collections stored, & accessible 7 days, in their community Store and Share Shed.


   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There is one page of drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
