A bracket made from galvanized steel that will wrap around the instantaneous or continuous flow
hot water service (HWS) that will prevent it from being stolen. The bracket goes around the HWS
horizontally and vertically. The bracket is screwed into the wall using dyna bolts. Once in place, the
top of the dyna bolt is hammered so that the nut will not be able to be removed and thereby
preventing the bracket from being taken off.


    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

My invention,
My invention is a bracket made from galvanized steel that will wrap around the instantaneous or
continuous flow hot water service (HWS) that will prevent it from being stolen.
The reason for this invention is because when new houses get built and once the appliances are
installed, the houses get broken into and the appliances get stolen. My bracket assists in the
protection of the hot water service. On many occasions, the hot water service/unit gets taken
because it is quick to remove from the wall, easy to carry away and given the crime level around, it is
not regarded by police as being important enough to follow up. It is near impossible for the police to
investigate it because there may never be anything to investigate. The owner of the property is then
forced to either replace it at their own cost or lodge an insurance claim where they get charged the
excess and their premiums go up the following year.
The advantages of my bracket:
    -    Made from durable galvanized steel measuring in at 40mm wide and 3 mm thick.
    -    Galvanised steel does not rust.
    -    It is silver in colour so thieves will notice that it is there before they attempt to damage the
         unit
    -    The bracket goes around the HWS horizontally and vertically.
    -    The bracket is screwed into the wall using dyna bolts. Once in place, the top of the dyna bolt
         is hammered so that the nut will not be able to be removed and thereby preventing the
         bracket from being taken off.
    -    HWS replacement units can cost in excess of $1600.00 and it is therefore in the home
         owners' interest to have my bracket protecting their HWS.
Products already on the market:
    -    Galvanised bracket that fits on the bottom of the HWS unit. They only fit on Rinnai models
         because they are normally mounted to the wall on the top and bottom of the unit. Their
         bracket only protects the bottom of the unit
    -    Rinnai also has a metal cage that fits over the whole HWS unit. I could not find a sample of
         that anymore.
    -    There are no other products on the market.
Thank you,
Craig Baatjes

                   Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
