A system for geo-targeted inter-mobile communication device data transmissions is
disclosed. The system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices and a
database of the mobile communication devices. The system is configured for
monitoring real-time locations of the mobile communication devices across a data
network by receiving location update data notifications from the mobile
communication devices and updating the database accordingly. The system is also
configured for receiving a data request from a requester mobile communication
device for data, resolving the data request into a target region, identifying one of the
plurality of mobile communication devices as a target mobile communication device
in accordance with the target region and current location of the target mobile
communication device; and transmitting the data from the target mobile
communication device to the requester mobile communication device.

                       1/3
0)
CO                               C1
                             x
                         a)    E      _
                      ED     cu
                           cua)       c
                                    CUC
                      CDLCD                 CD
    o
       0
   NZ)
   00
                         0              ~
                      0                   0    7L
             CD       CD
                   :0
         o---- ---
          00   CD

    A system for geotargeted inter-mobile communication device data
                                            transmissions
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to mobile communication messaging systems and in particular, but not
necessarily entirely, to a system for geotargeted inter-mobile communication device data
transmissions.
Summary of the Disclosure
[1]      According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for geotargeted
inter-mobile communication device data transmissions, the system comprising: a plurality of mobile
communication devices, a database of the mobile communication devices and wherein the system is
configured for monitoring real-time locations of the mobile communication devices across a data
network by receiving location update data notifications from the mobile communication devices and
updating the database accordingly, wherein the system isconfigured for receiving a data request from
a requester mobile communication device for data, resolving the data request into a target region,
identifying one of the plurality of mobile communication devices as a target mobile communication
device in accordance with the target region and current location of the target mobile communication
device; and transmitting the data from the target mobile communication device to the requester
mobile communication device.
[2]      The data request may comprise natural language.
[3]      The data request may comprise a natural language specified landmark.
[4]      The system may be configured for resolving the natural language specified region into a
landmark.
[5]      The system may be configured for searching a landmark database using the natural language
specified landmark.
[6]      The system uses supervised machine learning for resolving the natural language specified
landmark into the landmark.
[7]      The supervised machine learning may comprise a training module having as input training
natural language and landmark data.
[8]      The machine learning module may be configured for outputting optimisation parameters.
[9]      The optimisation parameters are utilised to configure an artificial neural network, the artificial
neural network having as input the natural and which specified landmark and outputting the
landmark.
                                                      1

[10]     The system may be configured for inferring travel speeds for one or more of the mobile
communication devices using the location update data notifications and filtering the mobile
communication devices for selection in accordance with a travel speed threshold.
[11]     The system may be configured for inferring travel directions for one or more of the mobile
communication devices using the location update data notifications and filtering the mobile
communication devices for selection in accordance with a direction of travel.
[12]     The request data may comprise image data.
[13]     The system may be configured for receiving the image data from a camera device of the target
mobile can indication device.
[14]     The request data may comprise video data.
[15]     The system may be configured for setting up video streaming between the target mobile
communication device and the requester mobile communication device.
[16]     The system may be further configured for inferring a future request time and predicting,
utilising historical location data, mobile communication devices that are likely to fall within the region
at the future request time.
[17]     The system may be configured for the automated retrieval of the requested data from the
target mobile communication device.
[18]     The requested data represents a travel speed of the target mobile communication device.
[19]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[20]      Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[21]      Figure 1 shows a system for geotargeted inter-mobile communication device data
transmissions;
[22]      Figure 2 shows a further detailed view of the computer actors of the system in accordance
with an embodiment; and
[23]      Figure 3 shows an exemplary model view controller (MVC) of a server of the system in
accordance with an embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[24]      For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles in accordance with the
disclosure, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific
language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of
                                                    2

the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications of the
inventive features illustrated herein, and any additional applications of the principles of the disclosure
as illustrated herein, which would normally occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having
possession of this disclosure, are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure.
[25]      Before the structures, systems and associated methods relating to the system for geotargeted
inter-mobile communication device data transmissions are disclosed and described, it is to be
understood that this disclosure is not limited to the particular configurations, process steps, and
materials disclosed herein as such may vary somewhat. It is also to be understood that the terminology
employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not
intended to be limiting since the scope of the disclosure will be limited only by the claims and
equivalents thereof.
[26]      In describing and claiming the subject matter of the disclosure, the following terminology will
be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
[27]      It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
''a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
[28]      As used herein, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing," "characterised by," and
grammatical equivalents thereof are inclusive or open-ended terms that do not exclude additional,
unrecited elements or method steps.
[29]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[30]      In the embodiments that follow, there is provided a system 100 for geo-targeted inter-mobile
communication device data transmission.
[31]      Specifically, turning to figure 1, there is shown the system 100 in exemplary form wherein, in
the embodiment shown, the system 100 comprises a server 107 in operable communication with a
plurality of mobile communication devices 101 across a data network.
[32]      The server 107 maintains a database 109 of the mobile communication devices 101.
[33]      Furthermore, the system 100 is configured for monitoring real-time locations of the mobile
communication devices 101 across a data network and updating the database 109 accordingly.
[34]      Specifically, as can be seen, each mobile communication device 101 comprises a GPS receiver
102 for ascertaining the real-time location of the relevant mobile communication device 101 which
may periodically be transmitted to the server 107 for recordal within the mobile communication
device database 109.
[35]      Of the plurality of mobile communication devices 101, for illustrative convenience, there is
shown one of the mobile communication devices 101 as the "requester" mobile communication
                                                        3

device and one of the mobile communication devices 101 as an associated "target" mobile
communication device.
[36]     As such, in use, the system 100 is configured for receiving a data request from the requester
mobile communication device 101 for data.
[37]     As such, the server 107 is configured for resolving the data request into a target region 112.
As can be seen from figure 1, and further for illustrative purposes, certain of the mobile
communication devices 101 located within a target region 112 and other mobile communication
devices 101 are located within other regions 113.
[38]     As such, having resolved the target region 112, the server 107 is configured for identifying one
of the plurality of mobile communication devices as the target mobile communication device 101 in
accordance with the target region 112 and the current location of the target mobile communication
device 101.
[39]     As such, the server 107 is then able to transmit data from the target mobile communication
device 101 to the requester mobile communication device 101.
[40]     As is shown in figure 1, the requester mobile communication device 101 may comprise a
request module 105 configured for making the data request. The data request specifies a target region
(such as a natural language or other format as is described in further detail below) which may be
resolved by a geo-lookup module 108 of the server 107 into geo-coordinates.
[41]     The geo-coordinates      are then cross-referenced      with the locations of the mobile
communication devices 101 within the database 109 to identify a plurality of mobile communication
devices 101 currently within the target region 112. Furthermore, the server 107 comprises a
notification module 101 configured for sending a data notification request to the plurality of mobile
communication devices 101 in the target region 112.
[42]     Thereafter, one of the mobile communication devices 101 within the target region 112, having
received such notification, either automatically, or under user instruction, may transmit the requested
data to the server 107.
[43]     In embodiments, the request data is image and/or video data and therefore the requested
image and/or video data may be captured utilising a camera device 103 of the target mobile
communication device 101 for transmission to the server 107.
[44]     In   this  regard,    the   target   mobile   communication       device   101    comprises    a
streaming/transmission module 104 for uploading/streaming the image/video dated to the server 107
and the server 107 further comprises a streaming and/or transmission module 101 for transmitting
the image/video data to the requester mobile communication device 101 which may then be
displayed or rendered utilising a display/rendering module 106.
                                                    4

[45]     Turning now to figure 2, there is shown a further detailed exemplary computer architecture
further illustrating the nature and/or configuration of the server 107 in operable communication with
the plurality of mobile communication devices 101 across a data network, such as the Internet 212.
[46]     Specifically, as can be seen, each computer actor comprises a processor 209 for processing
digital data. In operable communication with the processor 209 across a data base 208 is a memory
device 223.
[47]     The memory device 223 is configured for storing digital data including computer program
code. As such, during use, the processor 209 retrieves such computer code instructions from the
memory device 223 for execution and wherein data results may be stored back in the memory device
223. In embodiments, the memory device 223 may take the form of differing memory devices
including RAM or HDD storage or a combination thereof.
[48]     Each computer device may further comprise an 1/O module 210 for interfacing with various
computer peripherals such as user interface and data storage peripherals. For the latter, the
aforementioned computer code instructions may be stored within a computer readable medium
which may read from the computer readable medium by the 1/O interface 210.
[49]     Figure 2 illustrates the mobile communication device 101 1/O interface 210 interfacing with
various computer peripherals including a digital display 218, GPS 216 and camera 222.
[50]     The display 218 may take the form of a digital display device which may further comprise a
touch sensitive overlay so as to receive associated user instructions.
[51]     Furthermore, the GPS 216 may ascertain the location of the mobile communication device
101 which, as alluded to above, may be periodically transmitted to the server 107 for recordal within
the database 109. Furthermore, where the requested data comprises image or video data, such may
be captured via the camera 222 of the mobile communication device 101.
[52]     Furthermore, each computer device comprises a network interface 211 for sending and
receiving data across the data network 212. The network interface 211 of the mobile communication
device 101 may take the form of a cellular network interface for the purposes of sending and receiving
data across the cellular network.
[53]     The memory device 223 of each computer device may comprise software modules configured
for implementing the computational functionality described herein.
[54]     Specifically, considering the server 107, there is shown the memory device 223 comprising an
operating system 207, such as the Linux kernel or the like which may be fetched and executed by the
processor 209 during the bootstrap phase.
[55]     Furthermore,      the  software   modules     of   the server   107  may    be  divided  into
model/controller/view (MVC) modules as will be described in further detail below with reference to
                                                     5

figure 3 wherein the model module 201 comprises the structure of the database and the data stored
therein, the view module 203 controls aspects of the user interfaces and the controller module 202
interfaces the view controller 203 and the model module 201.
[56]      Furthermore, the memory device 223 of the mobile communication device 101 may be
provided with various software modules including a request module 219 for utilisation when making
data request from other mobile communication devices 101, a streaming/transmission module 2204
sending requested data to other mobile communication devices and a display/rendering module 221
for the purposes of displaying and/or rendering data received from other mobile communication
devices.
[57]      The software modules of the mobile communication device 101 may be provided by way of a
downloadable software application "app" which may be downloaded across the Internet 212 from a
software application store, such as the Apple App Store or the like.
[58]      In embodiments, the server 107 may take the form of a physical rack mounted server or
alternatively a virtualised server instance such as which may be implemented by Amazon web services
(AWS). Furthermore, and as alluded to above, the mobile communication device 101 may take the
form of a smartphone device, such as an Apple iPhone, Android mobile communication device 101 or
the like.
[59]      Turning now to figure 3, there is shown the exemplary model view controller 300 alluded to
above. Specifically, the controller 300 is divided into columns representing the model module 201,
controller module 202 and view module 203 respectively.
[60]      Considering initially the model 201, which as alluded to above may represent the data
structure and data within the database of the server 107, the model 201 may comprise a data table
representing the mobile communication devices 301. As alluded to above, the server 107 is configured
for maintaining the data table 301 of mobile communication devices 101 and monitoring the locations
of the mobile communication devices 101. As such, the locations ascertained for each mobile
communication device 101 may be stored within a locations data table 303 in relation to the mobile
communication devices table 301. As such, the server 107 is able to ascertain the locations of each
mobile communication device 101 in substantial real time. Furthermore, the model 201 may comprise
a credit's data table 302 configured for being incremented or decremented for each data
request/transmission.
[61]      Furthermore, the model 201 may comprise a data datatable 304 which, in embodiments, may
store the requested data which may take the form of image and/or video data.
[62]      Furthermore, the view module 203 may comprise a request interface 311 allowing each
mobile communication device 101 to request data from other mobile communication devices.
                                                     6

[63]     Furthermore, the view 203 may comprise an accept interface 312 allow a user of another
mobile communication device to accept the data transmission request.
[64]     Furthermore, the view 203 may comprise a display/render module 313 configured for
displaying the received requested data.
[65]     Considering now the controller 202, the controller 202 may comprise a tracking module 305
for tracking the locations of the mobile communication devices 101 for the purposes of updating the
locations data table 303 and the model 201.
[66]     Furthermore, the controller 202 may comprise a request processor module 306 for the
purposes of receiving data transmission request from a mobile communication device 101.
[67]     Furthermore, in embodiments, the controller 202 may comprise a geo-lookup module 307 for
resolving the data transmission request into a target region 112.
[68]     Furthermore, the controller 202 may comprise a notify module 308 for the purposes of
notifying a plurality of mobile communication devices 101 within the targeted region 112 such as, for
example, by way of push notification.
[69]     Furthermore, the controller 202 may comprise a transmit/streaming module 309 for the
purposes of transmitting and/or streaming data between the target mobile communication device
101 and the requester mobile communication device 101.
[70]     Furthermore, the controller 202 may comprise a real-time chat (RCT) module 310 for the
purposes of facilitating real-time chat communications between the target mobile communication
device 101 and the requester mobile communication device 101.
[71]     Having described the above technical architecture, there will now be provided one or more
exemplary embodiments for illustrating the functionality of the system 100. It should be noted that
these embodiments are exemplary only and that no technical limitation should necessarily be imputed
to all embodiments accordingly.
[72]     Now, the exemplary embodiment initiates with a plurality of mobile communication devices
101 registering with the server 107. Specifically, users of each mobile communication device 101 may
download a software application for installation and execution of the mobile communication device
101. During the initial start-up, the software application contacts the server 107 and initiates a user
registration process wherein the user may input relevant information such as preferences, contact
information, billing preferences, settings and the like.
[73]     Thereafter, once registered, the server 107 is configured for monitoring the locations of the
plurality of mobile communication devices 101. Specifically, at periodic intervals, the software
application of each mobile communication device 101 may ascertain the location of the mobile
communication device 101 using the GPS receiver 102 so as to be able to transmit location updates to
                                                    7

the server 107 in substantial real-time. As such, at any time, the server may be able to ascertain the
location of each mobile communication device 101 and substantial real-time.
[74]      Now, in this exemplary embodiment, a user, referred to herein as a requester user using the
requester mobile communication device 101, wishes to receive data from one or more other mobile
communication devices 101 about the current traffic situation of the M1 highway.
[75]     As such, using the request interface 311 of the requester mobile communication device 101,
the requester user makes a such a request.
[76]     There are differing manners in which the request may be made. In one embodiment, the
request interface 311 steps the user through a wizard interface which follows a decision tree structure
so as to allow the requester user to specify the type of data requested, the location and other relevant
information.
[77]      In embodiments, the request interface 311 may utilise "intellisense" text protection especially
for allowing the user to start typing a target location and wherein potentially matching target locations
are retrieved from a target location name database for suggestion for selection by the user.
[78]      In other embodiments, the user may input the request in natural language wherein the mobile
communication device 101 or the server 107 comprises a natural language processor to infer the
meaning of the request. For example, the requester user may input text "what is the traffic the like on
the M1 right now?".
[79]      Having received such protects, the natural language processor of the server 107 may resolve
the text into meaningful data.
[80]     Specifically, the server 107 is configured for identifying a targeted region in accordance with
the request.
[81]     As such, in this embodiment, the server 107 is configured for resolving the natural language
specified region "M1" into a geolocation targeted region.
[82]     Specifically, the server 107 may comprise a plurality of landmarks against which the natural
language query is referenced to identify a potential match. Any potential match the may be confirmed
by the user. Alternatively, should no match be found, the user may be re-prompted to further specify
the natural language landmark specified.
[83]     Alternatively, the server 109 were utilised supervised machine learning for resolving natural
language provided landmarks into geo-coordinates. Specifically, the supervised machine learning may
utilise a training module having as input historical training natural language and geo-fence/landmark
training data which may be utilised to generate an optimised model or parameters which I use to
configure, for example, an artificial neural network configured using the optimised parameters as
                                                      8

neural net weightings. As such, such a trained neural network may take as input the natural language
text and output landmarks/geo-fence coordinates.
[84]      Having at least identified a landmark, the server 107 utilises the geo-look up module 307 for
resolving the landmark into geo-coordinates representing a target region 101.
[85]      Specifically, for the specified natural landmark "Ml", the server may retrieve geo-fence
coordinates representing the extent of the M1 highway.
[86]      In alternative embodiments, street addresses, suburb names and the like may be resolved into
geo-fence coordinates wherein, for example, the natural language query may comprise "I need a
photograph of the solar eclipse in Adelaide, Australia" wherein the natural landmark "Adelaide" is
resolved interior geo-fence representing the Adelaide region.
[87]      Having identified the targeted region 101 the server is configured for sending notifications to
the plurality of mobile communication devices 101 within the target region 112.
[88]      In one embodiment, the server 107 is configured for sending notifications to mobile
communication devices 101 currently within the target region 112 such as, for example, those mobile
communication devices 101 for users currently on the M1 highway. In further embodiments, the
mobile communication devices 101 within the target region 112 may be further filtered by, for
example, velocity as is ascertained by the GPS receiver 102 so as to be able to, for example, filter only
those mobile communication devices 101 actually travelling on the highway (as is indicative of the
speed of the mobile communication device 101 so as to discriminate against, for example, users who
live adjacent the highway) or alternatively the direction of travel so as to further resolve the mobile
communication devices 101 according to a particular direction of travel.
[89]      In alternative embodiments, the server 107 may identify mobile communication devices 101
who habitually locate within the targeted region 112, such as other users who routinely travel on the
M1 highway. As such, users may receive notifications who may subsequently be travelling on the M1
highway on a particular day.
[90]      In one embodiment, the server 107 is configured for ascertaining the natural language request
into a particular time period wherein, for example, the natural language request may comprise "what
is the traffic like on the Ml highway at 9 AM today" wherein the time of the request is currently 8 AM.
[91]      As such, by analysing the historical locations of the mobile communication devices 101, the
server 107 is able to identify mobile communication devices 101 that are likely to be on the M1
highway at the specified time. As such, the notifications may be sent to the relevant mobile
communication devices 101 in advance.
[92]      As alluded to above, in embodiments, the notification 101 may be sent by way of push
notification for display and confirmation.
                                                     9

[93]     As also alluded to above, in one embodiment, the provision of data is performed at the user's
consent wherein, upon receiving such a notification, the user is able to accept or reject the request.
[94]      In alternative embodiments, the user may specify user setting so as to allow the automated
retrieval and/or transmission of data. For example, for traffic requests, the user may have configured
a user setting allowing the mobile communication device 101 to autonomously transmit velocity data
to the server 107 without user intervention such that when the requester user asks for the current
traffic status of the M1, the system 101 is able to automatically retrieve velocity data from the mobile
communication devices 101 within the targeted region one 112 without further user intervention so
as to be able to, for example, display an average travel speed to the requester.
[95]     As alluded to above, the requested data may take on differing formats including the above
described velocity data. Other data may be retrieved also from the mobile communication device 101
including data which may be sensed by one of the sensors of the mobile communication device 101,
such as ambient temperature, audio information in the like.
[96]      However, in one embodiment, the requested data may represent image and/or video data.
For example, whether natural language request comprises the text "what is the traffic currently look
like on the M1?', The target user may utilise the camera 103 to transmit such information back to the
user. For example, the target user may capture an image of the highway which is then transmitted via
the server 107 to the requester mobile communication device 101.
[97]      However, for video data, the system 101 may set up a live stream between the target mobile
communication device 101 in the requester mobile communication device 101 wherein video data is
continuously streamed in substantial real time to the requester mobile communication device 101.
[98]     As alluded to above, the server 107 may maintain a database of credits 302 wherein, for
example, for the purposes of making a request and/or receiving request data, a credit amount is
decremented with respect to the requester mobile communication device 101 and also incremented
for the target mobile communication device 101. As such, users providing requested data gain credits
which may then be utilised for requesting data from other users. In embodiment, the requester may
confirm the provided data as satisfactory prior to the incrementing/decremented of credits.
[99]      In embodiments, as also alluded to above, the server 101 may be configured for setting up
RTC communications between the target mobile communication device 101 and the requester mobile
communication device 101 wherein, at the time of making the data request, the respective users may
chat for a limited time. As such, utilising the real-time chat, the target user may pose clarifying
questions and the like. In embodiment, the real-time chat 101 may take the form of a textbased chat
but, in other embodiments, voice data may be transmitted, such as by utilising VoIP so as to allow the
users of the respective mobile communication devices 1012 verbally communicate.
                                                    10

Interpretation
Wireless:
[100] The invention may be embodied using devices conforming to other network standards and for
other applications, including, for example other WLAN standards and other wireless standards.
Applications that can be accommodated include IEEE 802.11 wireless LANs and links, and wireless
Ethernet.
[101]    In the context of this document, the term "wireless" and its derivatives may be used to
describe circuits, devices, systems, methods, techniques, communications channels, etc., that may
communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non-solid
medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires, although in
some embodiments they might not. In the context of this document, the term "wired" and its
derivatives may be used to describe circuits, devices, systems, methods, techniques, communications
channels, etc., that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation
through a solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices are coupled by
electrically conductive wires.
Processes:
[102] Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions, it is
appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as "processing",
"computing", "calculating", "determining", "analysing" or the like, refer to the action and/or processes
of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or
transform data represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities into other data similarly
represented as physical quantities.
Processor:
[103] In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or portion of a device that
processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or memory to transform that electronic data into
other electronic data that, e.g., may be stored in registers and/or memory. A "computer" or a
"computing device" or a "computing machine" or a "computing platform" may include one or more
processors.
[104]    The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable by one or more
processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine-readable) code containing a set of
instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors carry out at least one of the
methods described herein. Any processor capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or
otherwise) that specify actions to be taken are included. Thus, one example is a typical processing
                                                   11

system that includes one or more processors. The processing system further may include a memory
subsystem including main RAM and/or a static RAM, and/or ROM.
Computer-Readable Medium:
[105] Furthermore, a computer-readable carrier medium may form, or be included in a computer
program product. A computer program product can be stored on a computer usable carrier medium,
the computer program product comprising a computer readable program means for causing a
processor to perform a method as described herein.
Networked or Multiple Processors:
[106] In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a standalone device or
may be connected, e.g., networked to other processor(s), in a networked deployment, the one or
more processors may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server-client network
environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer or distributed network environment. The one or
more processors may form a web appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any machine
capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by
that machine.
[107]    Note that while some diagram(s) only show(s) a single processor and a single memory that
carries the computer-readable code, those in the art will understand that many of the components
described above are included, but not explicitly shown or described in order not to obscure the
inventive aspect. For example, while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also
be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple
sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
Additional Embodiments:
[108] Thus, one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the form of a computer
readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions, e.g., a computer program that are for execution
on one or more processors. Thus, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, embodiments of
the present invention may be embodied as a method, an apparatus such as a special purpose
apparatus, an apparatus such as a data processing system, or a computer-readable carrier medium.
The computer-readable carrier medium carries computer readable code including a set of instructions
that when executed on one or more processors cause a processor or processors to implement a
method. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a method, an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and
hardware aspects. Furthermore, the present invention may take the form of carrier medium (e.g., a
                                                   12

computer program product on a computer-readable storage medium) carrying computer-readable
program code embodied in the medium.
Carrier Medium:
[109] The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via a network interface
device. While the carrier medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the
term "carrier medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a
centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more
sets of instructions. The term "carrier medium" shall also be taken to include any medium that is
capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by one or more of the
processors and that cause the one or more processors to perform any one or more of the
methodologies of the present invention. A carrier medium may take many forms, including but not
limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media.
Implementation:
[110] It will be understood that the steps of methods discussed are performed in one embodiment
by an appropriate processor (or processors) of a processing (i.e., computer) system executing
instructions (computer-readable code) stored in storage. It will also be understood that the invention
is not limited to any particular implementation or programming technique and that the invention may
be implemented using any appropriate techniques for implementing the functionality described
herein. The invention is not limited to any particular programming language or operating system.
Means For Carrying out a Method or Function
[111] Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method or combination of
elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a processor device, computer
system, or by other means of carrying out the function.        Thus, a processor with the necessary
instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a means for carrying out
the method or element of a method. Furthermore, an element described herein of an apparatus
embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out the function performed by the element for the
purpose of carrying out the invention.
Connected
[112] Similarly, it is to be noticed that the term connected, when used in the claims, should not be
interpreted as being limitative to direct connections only. Thus, the scope of the expression a device
A connected to a device B should not be limited to devices or systems wherein an output of device A
is directly connected to an input of device B. It means that there exists a path between an output of
A and an input of B which may be a path including other devices or means. "Connected" may mean
                                                   13

that two or more elements are either in direct physical or electrical contact, or that two or more
elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
Embodiments:
[113] Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in
one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one
of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[114]    Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example embodiments of
the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding
in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure,
however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more
features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into
this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
embodiment of this invention.
[115]    Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features
included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be
within the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be understood by those
in the art. For example, in the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
combination.
Different Instances of Objects
[116] As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first", "second",
"third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different instances of like objects are
being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given
sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
[117]    In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In
                                                      14

other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in
order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
Terminology
[118] In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings, specific
terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended to be
limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific term includes all
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose.
Terms such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the
like are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
[119] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[120]    Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an
open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
Scope of Invention
[121] Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of
the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made
thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes
and modifications as fall within the scope of the invention. For example, any formulas given above
are merely representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
[122]    Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other forms.
                                                      15

Claims
1.       A system for geotargeted inter-mobile communication device data transmissions, the system
comprising:
         a plurality of mobile communication devices,
         a database of the mobile communication devices and wherein the system is configured for
monitoring real-time locations of the mobile communication devices across a data network by
receiving location update data notifications from the mobile communication devices and updating
the database accordingly,
         wherein the system is configured for receiving a data request from a requester mobile
communication device for data,
         resolving the data request into a target region,
         identifying one of the plurality of mobile communication devices as a target mobile
communication device in accordance with the target region and current location of the target
mobile communication device; and
         transmitting the data from the target mobile communication device to the requester mobile
communication device.
2.       A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data request comprises natural language.
3.       A system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the data request comprises a natural language
specified landmark.
4.       A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the system is configured for resolving the natural
language specified region into a landmark.
5.       A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the system is configure for searching a landmark
database using the natural language specified landmark.
6.       A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the system uses supervised machine learning for
resolving the natural language specified landmark into the landmark.
7.       A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the supervised machine learning comprises a
training module having as input training natural language and landmark data.
8.       A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the machine learning module is configured for
outputting optimisation parameters.
9.       A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the optimisation parameters are utilised to
configure an artificial neural network, the artificial neural network having as input the natural and
which specified landmark and outputting the landmark.
10.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system is configured for inferring travel speeds
for one or more of the mobile communication devices using the location update data notifications
                                                     16

and filtering the mobile communication devices for selection in accordance with a travel speed
threshold.
11.      A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the system is configured for inferring travel
directions for one or more of the mobile communication devices using the location update data
notifications and filtering the mobile communication devices for selection in accordance with a
direction of travel.
12.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the request data comprises image data.
13.      A system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the system is configured for receiving the image
data from a camera device of the target mobile can indication device.
14.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the request data comprises video data.
15.      A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the system is configured for setting up video
streaming between the target mobile communication device and the requester mobile
communication device.
16.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system is further configured for inferring a
future request time and predicting, utilising historical location data, mobile communication devices
that are likely to fall within the region at the future request time.
17.      A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system is configured for the automated retrieval
of the requested data from the target mobile communication device.
18.      A system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the requested data represents a travel speed of
the target mobile communication device.
                                                      17

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         +
                             *
'
                                 ,
    "#
                 !                                      '
                                                                1/3
                                                        (
             %                   )
             !       &           $
         %

                                                             <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                         +
'
                     &
    '               0 /
            /            &
                "
    +
            !
                                                                                                       2/3
*
                                 /       .
,       -            ."                                                                            $
                             .       -
                                                             !       &
                                                                                          !        *
                                             ,               %
                                                                                     ."
                                             '
                                                             !
                                                 *
                                                                     /                             ,
                                                                                     -
                                                                 .       -
                                                     1   -           -       &   -

                                        <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                                      '
      &                                    0 /    '
                          -                       %
'                   ' )           '
                          %
                &                                3--
'                   ' $   -       '
                                                        !
          2 -
' '                 ' +           ' '                  &
                              !
' (                 ' *                                                   3/3
                    ' ,
                    '
                          '

