Abstract
Disclosed herein are methods of treating conditions, which may be associated with elevated
levels  of plasma cells and/or B-cells, with a therapeutically       effective amount    of
dexpramipexole or pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof. See Figs 6A and 6B.

WO1 2015/023786                                                          PCT/US2014/050943
                                      6/6
                                      Liiieage- Sca 11111 cKitl
                 joy  .x03
                         -J
                              CONTROL            30 rng/kg      10 0m glko
                                           Sigle&cF0O l~uhi
                  21006
                    0~10 6                              *
                           LU                         -
              LU
                               CONTROL             30 r akg       100 rng/kg

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING PLASMA CELL DISORDERS
                     AND B-CELL PROLYMPHOCYTIC DISORDERS
         [0001]      This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/865,592 filed August 13, 2013 and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/987,117 filed
on May 1, 2014 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                         SUMMARY
         [0002]      Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of treating a
plasma cell disorder characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells in the bone marrow in a
subject by administering to a subject in need thereof, a therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole. In some embodiments, the condition is further characterized by the presence
of serum monoclonal proteins in the subject. The condition may be further characterized by
an increase in monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood of the subject. The condition may
be even further characterized by bone and kidney dysfunction. In some embodiments, the
condition is monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. In other embodiments,
the condition is multiple myeloma.
         [0003]     Various embodiments may relate to a method of treating a plasma cell
disorder where the elevated levels of plasma cells may be characterized as greater than 10%
of total cells in the bone marrow. In other embodiments, the elevated levels of plasma cells
may be characterized as greater than 30% of total cells in the bone marrow.
         [0004]      In  some   embodiments,    the   therapeutically   effective amount    of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is from about 1 mg to about
1,000 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount may be from
about 50 mg to about 600 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount may be from about 150 mg to about 300 mg per day. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 150 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 300 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 150 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 1200 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 1500 mg.
         [0005]      In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering a daily dose as a fraction of the daily dose (as described herein) two
or more times per day. In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective
amount comprises administering a dose equal to about half of a daily dose twice per day. In
some embodiments, the dose may be administered every about 12 hours. In some
                                             -1-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount comprises administering
about 150 mg two times per day.
         [0006]     Some embodiments further comprise administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of one or more secondary agents selected from a
corticosteroid,    a    non-steroidal   anti-inflammatory    drug     (NSAID),     intravenous
immunoglobulin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a monoclonal antibody directed
against one or more pro-inflammatory cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent, or a combination
thereof.
         [0007]     Some embodiments further comprise administering simultaneously or
concurrently with one or more other treatments.
         [0008]     Various embodiments may also comprise an induction step. In some
embodiments, said induction step comprises administering to said subject a therapeutically
effective amount of a secondary agent capable of decreasing levels of plasma cells and/or B
cell prolymphocytes in the subject prior to administration of a therapeutically effective
amount of dexpramipexole. In some embodiments, the secondary agent is dexpramipexole. In
some embodiments, the secondary agent is selected from a corticosteroid, a non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a monoclonal
antibody directed against one or more pro-inflammatory cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent,
or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, said induction step comprises administering
a therapeutically effective amount of a secondary agent for a period of about 1 day to about 6
months. In some embodiments, said induction step comprises administering a therapeutically
effective amount of a secondary agent for a period of about 1 week to about 4 months.
         [0009]     Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of treating a B
cell disorder characterized by elevated levels of B-cells in a subject by administering to a
subject in need thereof, a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole. In some
embodiments, the condition may be further characterized by elevated levels of B-cell
prolymphocytes in the peripheral blood. In further embodiments, the elevated levels of B-cell
prolymphocytes may be greater than 15% in the peripheral blood.
         [0010]     In   some   embodiments,      the therapeutically   effective amount    of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is from about 1 mg to about
1,000 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount may be from
about 50 mg to about 600 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount may be from about 150 mg to about 300 mg per day. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 150 mg. In some embodiments, the
                                               -2-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 300 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 150 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 1200 mg. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount may be at least about 1500 mg.
         [0011]     In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering a daily dose as a fraction of the daily dose (as described herein) two
or more times per day. In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective
amount comprises administering a dose equal to about half of a daily dose twice per day. In
some embodiments, the dose may be administered every about 12 hours. In some
embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount comprises administering
about 150 mg two times per day.
         [0012]     Some embodiments further comprise administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of one or more secondary agents selected from a
corticosteroid,    a    non-steroidal   anti-inflammatory     drug    (NSAID),     intravenous
immunoglobulin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a monoclonal antibody directed
against one or more pro-inflammatory cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent, or a combination
thereof
         [0013]     Some embodiments further comprise administering simultaneously or
concurrently with one or more other treatments.
         [0014]     Various embodiments may also comprise an induction step. In some
embodiments, said induction step comprises administering to said subject a therapeutically
effective amount of a secondary agent capable of decreasing levels of plasma cells and/or B
cell prolymphocytes in the subject prior to administration of a therapeutically effective
amount of dexpramipexole. In some embodiments, the secondary agent is dexpramipexole. In
some embodiments, the secondary agent is selected from a corticosteroid, a non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a monoclonal
antibody directed against one or more pro-inflammatory cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent,
or a combination thereof In some embodiments, said induction step comprises administering
a therapeutically effective amount of a secondary agent for a period of about 1 day to about 6
months. In some embodiments, said induction step comprises administering a therapeutically
effective amount of a secondary agent for a period of about 1 week to about 4 months.
                                               -3-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         [0015]    FIG. 1 depicts the dose- and time-dependent effects of dexpramipexole on
eosinophil counts from minipigs. The reduction of eosinophils was observed in minipigs in
long-term toxicity studies (n=5-9 dose group/treatment interval).
         [0016]    FIG. 2 depicts the dose- and time-dependent effects of dexpramipexole on
eosinophil counts in Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials. FIG. 2A depicts the effect in the
Phase 2 trial CL201 (n=22-25 per group). In FIG. 2A the time period marked "W" represents
the end of the 4-week washout following the month 3 time point. FIG. 2B depicts the effect
in the Phase 3 trial EMPOWER. (Mean ± SEM, N=474 at baseline, N=328 at 12 months in
dexpramipexole group, 467 and 340 in placebo group).
         [0017]    FIG. 3 depicts the effects of dexpramipexole on basophils and neutrophils
in the Phase 3 trial. (Mean ± SEM, N=474 at baseline in dexpramipexole group, 468 in
placebo group). FIG. 3A depicts the time-dependent effects on basophils. FIG. 3B depicts the
effects on neutrophils.
         [0018]    FIG. 4 shows that dexpramipexole decreases eosinophils even when the
baseline counts are elevated. FIG. 4A shows the effects on a subject in the Phase 2 study with
a high baseline eosinophil count. FIG. 4B shows the effects on a subject in the Phase 3 trial
with a high baseline eosinophil count.
         [0019]    FIG.   5 shows     the  change   in  complete     blood counts    (CBC)    in
dexpramipexole and placebo groups from baseline to month 6 in the Phase 3 trial.
         [0020]    FIG. 6 shows the effects of dexpramipexole on multipotent hematopoietic
stem cells and lineage cells in the bone marrow of BalbC wild type mice. FIG. 6A shows the
cell numbers for cell surface marker ScalY c-Kit( cells that are lineage negative for the three
study groups. FIG. 6B shows the Siglec-F     IL5RL    positive cell numbers for the three study
groups.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0021]    Plasma cell diseases have various characteristics used to classify each
disease. For example, multiple myeloma (also known as myeloma or plasma cell myeloma) is
a progressive hematologic disease, characterized by excessive levels of abnormal plasma
cells (multiple myeloma plasma cells) in the bone marrow and overproduction of intact
monoclonal immunoglobulin. It is thought that multiple myeloma may arise from a common
benign plasma cell tumor called Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance
(MGUS). Multiple myeloma accounts for 1% of all cancers and 10% of all hematologic
                                              -4-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
malignancies (making it the second most common hematological malignancy) and 2% of all
cancer deaths. In multiple myeloma patients, mutated plasma cells grow unregulated by the
processes that normally control cell division and death. The interaction of cytokines such as
interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), stimulate the growth of myeloma cells
and inhibit apoptosis, leading to proliferation of myeloma cells. Myeloma plasma cells have
specific adhesion molecules on their surface allowing them to attach to bone marrow stromal
cells. Thus, myeloma cells traveling through the bloodstream can collect in the bone marrow
where they interfere with cells in the bone that produce white and red blood cells and
platelets, often causing anemia and a decreased immune function. The overgrowth of plasma
cells in the bone marrow often leads to structural bone damage, resulting in bone pain and
fractures. Myeloma cells also produce abnormal antibodies that cannot effectively fight
infection. As tumors grow they invade the hard, outer part of the bone, eventually spreading
into the bone marrow of all the large bones of the body, with myeloma cells found in multiple
sites throughout the bone marrow. The diagnosis of multiple myeloma requires (i) 10% or
more clonal plasma cells on bone marrow examination or a biopsy-proven plasmacytoma,
plus (ii) evidence of end- organ damage felt to be related to the underlying plasma cell
disorder. Multiple myeloma is characterized by marked genetic heterogeneity with two broad
genetic subtypes defined by chromosome number, namely, hyperdiploid multiple myeloma
and nonhyperdiploid multiple myeloma. The latter is associated with primary IgH
translocations including (I 1;14)(ql3;q32) and t(4;14)(pl6;q32), respectively representing 20%
and 15% of multiple myeloma cases. It has been shown that multiple myeloma patients with
the chromosomal abnormality t(4; 14) have a poor prognosis and poor overall survival with
aggressive relapse and short remission times even following a positive response to stem cell
transplantation.
         [0022]     As described above, in multiple myeloma, multiple myeloma plasma cells
are cradled within the bone marrow microenvironment by an array of adhesive interactions
between the bone marrow cellular residents, the surrounding extracellular matrix components
such as fibronectin, lamin, vascular cell adhesion molecule-i (VCAM-1), proteoglycans,
collagens, and hyaluron as well as a variety of adhesion molecules on the surface of the
multiple myeloma plasma cells including integrins, hyaluron receptors (CD44 and RHAMM)
and heparin sulfate proteoglycans. Several signaling responses are activated in these
interactions, affecting the survival, proliferation and migration of multiple myeloma plasma
cells. An important consequence of these direct adhesive interactions between the bone
marrow and/or the extracellular matrix and the multiple myeloma plasma cells is the
                                                -5-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
development of drug resistance. This phenomenon is termed "cell adhesion-mediated drug
resistance" (CAM-DR) and it is thought to be one of the major mechanisms by which
multiple myeloma plasma cells escape the cytotoxic effects of therapeutic agents.
         [0023]    Eosinophils are white blood cells of mycloid lineage shown to reside in
bone marrow niches in which plasma cells develop. In co-cultures of human tissues,
eosinophils have been shown to enhance the proliferation of malignant plasma cells. Bone
marrow biopsies from multiple myeloma patients show that the percentage of eosinophils in
close proximity to multiple myeloma cells in the bone marrow increases with disease
progression. In eosinophil deficient mice, plasma cell accumulation in the bone marrow is
impaired and eosinophil depletion induces plasma cell apoptosis.
         [00241    NJ1638    IL-5   transgenic    hypereosinophilic   mice    have   a   B-cell
lymphocytosis that is nearly abolished following genetic deletion of their eosinophils. In vitro
studies using human tissues have demonstrated eosinophils' proximity to B-cell follicles and
their ability to promote B-cell survival, proliferation, and Ig secretion via a contact
independent mechanism. In hypereosinophilic patients, there is direct correlation between
peripheral blood eosinophil levels and B-cell numbers.
         [0025]    Basophils are also white blood cells of myeloid lineage that reside in the
bone marrow. In addition to supporting B-cell responses, basophils have been shown to
support the survival of plasma cells. In vitro, the absence of basophils has been shown to
cause the rapid death of isolated plasma cells, while the addition of basophils enabled their
survival. In mice, the presence of basophils in bone marrow has been shown to support
plasma call survival.
         [0026]    Plasma cells are antibody-secreting cells found in lymphoid tissue and
derived from B-cells upon lymphokine stimulation and reaction with a specific antigen.
Without wishing to be bound to theory, it is believed that decreasing eosinophils may result
in a decrease in plasma cell levels, B-cell levels, or a combination thereof. It has recently
been demonstrated that eosinophils have the ability to induce malignant human plasma cells
proliferation. It has also been reported that hypereosinophilic (NJ1638) mice, which
constitutively express the IL-5 transgene, exhibit B-cell lymphocytosis that can be
ameliorated via removal of eosinophils from these mice. Human in vitro studies have shown
that purified eosinophils can enhance B-cell proliferation which may involve both contact
dependent and -independent mechanisms. The requirement of only a transient interaction
between eosinophils and B-cells to result in augmented B-cell proliferation mimics the in
                                              -6-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
vivo departure of B-cells from the eosinophils at the T-B border upon activation followed by
germinal center formation.
         [0027]     Agents that selectively reduce plasma cell count and/or function, B-cell
count and/or function, or a combination thereof might be expected to benefit patients with
multiple myeloma and other conditions associated with elevated levels of plasma cells, B
cells or a combination thereof.
         [0028]     Accordingly, a major need exists for a small molecule agent with
established preclinical and clinical safety experience for the treatment of conditions
associated with elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells.
         [0029]     Dexpramipexole           ((6R)-2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-6-(propylamino)
benzothiazole), is a synthetic aminobenzothiazole derivative with the following structure:
                          N
                H2N     /   IN
                                      "
                                   H
As used herein, dexpramipexole may be administered as a free base of a pharmaceutical
acceptable salt. Pharmaceutical acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, any acid
addition salt, preferably a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt, including, but not
limited to, halogenic acid salts such as hydrobromic, hydrochloric, hydrofloric and
hydroiodic acid salt; an inorganic acid salt such as, for example, nitric, perchloric, sulfuric
and phosphoric acid salt; an organic acid salt such as, for example, sulfonic acid salts
(methanesulfonic,     trifluoromethan   sulfonic,   ethanesulfonic,   benzenesulfonic    or   p
toluenesufonic, acetic, malic, fumaric, succinic, citric, benzonic gluconic, lactic, mandelic,
mucic, pamoic, pantothenic, oxalic and maleic acid salts; and an amino acid salt such as
aspartic or glutamic acid salt. The acid addition salt may be a mono- or di-acid addition salt,
such as a di-hydrohalogic, di-sulfuric, di-phosphoric or di-organic acid salt. In all cases, the
acid addition salt is used as an achiral reagent which is not selected on the basis of any
expected or known preference for the interaction with or precipitation of a specific optical
isomer of the products of this disclosure.
         [0030]     As dexpramipexole was well-tolerated in humans following exposures up
to 18 months, it may represent a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of conditions
associated with elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells.
                                               -7-

 WO 2015/023786                                                                PCT/US2014/050943
        [0031]      Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present
invention, the exemplary methods, devices, and materials are now described.
        [0032]      In each of the embodiments described herein, the method may comprise
administering a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof In each of the embodiments described herein, the method may consist
essentially of administering a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In each of the embodiments described herein, the
method may consist of administering a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof The term "comprising" means "including, but not
limited to." The term "consisting essentially of' means the method or composition includes
the steps or components specifically recited, and may also include those that do not
materially affect the basic and novel characteristics of the present invention. The term
"consisting of' means the method or composition includes only the steps or components
specifically recited.
        [0033]      In each of the embodiments disclosed herein, the compounds and methods
may be utilized with or on a subject in need of such treatment, which may also be referred to
as "in need thereof." As used herein, the phrase "in need thereof" means that the subject has
been identified as having a need for the particular method or treatment and that the treatment
has been given to the subject for that particular purpose.
        [0034]      As used herein, the term "patient" and "subject" are interchangeable and
may be taken to mean any living organism, which may be treated with compounds of the
present invention. As such, the terms "patient" and "subject" may include, but is not limited
to, any non-human mammal, primate or human. In some embodiments, the "patient" or
"subject" is an adult, child, infant, or fetus. In some embodiments, the "patient" or "subject"
is a human. In some embodiments, the "patient" or "subject" is a mammal, such as mice, rats,
other rodents, rabbits, dogs, cats, swine, cattle, sheep, horses, primates, or humans.
        [0035]      As used herein, the term "plasma cell" refers to an antibody-secreting cell
that is derived from a B-cell. In some embodiments, the term "plasma cell" refers to an
antibody-secreting cell that reacts with an antigen. In some embodiments, the term "plasma
cell" refers to a plasma B-cell. In some embodiments, the term "plasma cell" refers to an
effector B-cell. In some embodiments, the term "plasma cell" refers to a plasmocyte. In some
embodiments, the term "plasma cell" refers to a plasma cell or clonal plasma cell residing in
                                                 -8-

 WO 2015/023786                                                              PCT/US2014/050943
the bone marrow, in the systemic circulatory system, and/or in organ tissues. In some
embodiments, the organ tissue is the bone, the kidney, lymph nodes, or combinations thereof.
         [0036]      As used herein, the term "B-cell" refers to a lymphocyte. In some
embodiments, the term "B-cell" refers B lymphocytes. In some embodiments, the term "B
cell" refers to a B-cell residing in the bone marrow, in the systemic circulatory system, and/or
in organ tissues. In some embodiments, the organ tissue is the bone, the kidney, lymph nodes,
or combinations thereof
         [0037]      As used herein, a condition characterized by elevated levels of plasma
cells and/or B-cells in a subject refers to a condition in which the numbers of plasma cells
and/or B-cells, as the case may be, are increased or raised compared with a normal subject or
are increased or raised compared to another subject with the same condition.
         [0038]      As used herein, the terms "adjunctive administration" and "adjunctively"
may be used interchangeably, and refer to simultaneous administration of more than one
compound in the same dosage form, simultaneous administration in separate dosage forms,
and separate administration of more than one compound as part of a single therapeutic
regimen.
         [0039]    As used herein, the term "antibody" may be used to include antibody and
antibody fragments such as, Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, scFv, dsFv, ds-scFv, dimers, minibodies,
diabodies, bispecific antibody fragments, multimers, and any combination thereof, and
fragments from recombinant sources and/or produced in transgenic animals. The antibody or
fragment may be from any species including mice, rats, rabbits, hamsters and humans.
Chimeric antibody derivatives, i.e., antibody molecules that combine a non-human animal
variable region and a human constant region are also contemplated within the scope of the
invention. Chimeric antibody molecules may include, for example, humanized antibodies
which comprise the antigen binding domain from an antibody of a mouse, rat, or other
species, with human constant regions. Conventional methods may be used to make chimeric
antibodies. It is expected that chimeric antibodies would be less immunogenic in a human
subject than the corresponding non-chimeric antibody.
         [0040]    As used herein, the term "a no observable adverse effect level" (NOAEL)
dose refers to an amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that produces no
statistically, clinically or biologically significant increases in the frequency or severity of
adverse effects between an exposed population and its appropriate control; some effects may
be produced at this level, but they are not considered as adverse, or as precursors to adverse
                                                 -9-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
effects. The exposed population may be a system, tissue, animal, individual or human being
treated by a researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor, or other clinician.
         [0041]   Before the present compositions and methods are described, it is to be
understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes, compositions, or
methodologies described, as these may vary. Moreover, the processes, compositions, and
methodologies described in particular embodiments are interchangeable. Therefore, for
example, a composition, dosages regimen, route of administration, and so on described in a
particular embodiments may be used in any of the methods described in other particular
embodiments. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for
the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only, and is not intended to
the limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended
claims. Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meanings as commonly understood by one of the ordinary skill in the art. Although any
methods similar or equivalent to those describe herein can be used in the practice or testing of
embodiments of the present invention, the preferred methods are now described. All
publications and references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is
to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure
by virtue of prior invention.
         [0042]   It must be noted that, as used herein, and in the appended claims, the
singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
         [0043]   As used herein, the term "about" means plus or minus 10% of the numerical
value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore, about 50% means in the range of
45%-55%.
         [0044]   "Optional" or "optionally" may be taken to mean that the subsequently
described structure, event or circumstance may or may not occur, and that the described
includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.
         [0045]   "Administering" when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to
administer a therapeutic directly or indirectly into or onto a target tissue to administer a
therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is
targeted. "Administering" a composition may be accomplished by oral administration,
injection, infusion, inhalation, absorption or by any method in combination with other known
techniques. "Administering" may include the act of self-administration or administration by
another person such as a health care provider.
                                               -10-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
         [0046]   The term "improves" is used to convey that the present invention changes
either the appearance, form, characteristics, structure, function and/or physical attributes of
the tissue to which it is being provided, applied or administered. "Improves" may also refer to
the overall physical state of an individual to whom an active agent has been administered. For
example, the overall physical state of an individual may "improve" if one or more symptoms
of the disease, condition or disorder are alleviated by administration of an active agent.
         [0047]   As used here, the term "therapeutic" means an agent utilized to treat,
combat, ameliorate or prevent an unwanted disease, condition or disorder of a patient.
         [0048]   The terms "therapeutically effective amount" or "therapeutic dose" is used
herein are interchangeable and may refer to the amount of an active agent or pharmaceutical
compound or composition that elicits a clinical, biological or medicinal response in a tissue,
system, animal, individual or human that is being sought by a researcher, veterinarian,
medical doctor or other clinical professional. A clinical, biological or medical response may
include, for example, one or more of the following: (1) preventing a disease, condition or
disorder in an individual that may be predisposed to the disease, condition or disorder but
does not yet experience or display pathology or symptoms of the disease, condition or
disorder, (2) inhibiting a disease, condition or disorder in an individual that is experiencing or
displaying the pathology or symptoms of the disease, condition or disorder or arresting
further development of the pathology and/or symptoms of the disease, condition or disorder,
and (3) ameliorating a disease, condition or disorder in an individual that is experiencing or
exhibiting the pathology or symptoms of the disease, condition or disorder or reversing the
pathology and/or symptoms experience or exhibited by the individual.
         [0049]   The term "treating" may be taken to mean prophylaxis of a specific disorder,
disease or condition, alleviation of the symptoms associated with a specific disorder, disease
or condition and/or prevention of the symptoms associated with a specific disorder, disease or
condition. In some embodiments, the term refers to slowing the progression of the disorder,
disease or condition or alleviating the symptoms associated with the specific disorder, disease
or condition. In some embodiments, the term refers to alleviating the symptoms associated
with the specific disorder, disease or condition. In some embodiments, the term refers to
alleviating the symptoms associated with the specific disorder, disease or condition. In some
embodiments, the term refers to restoring function which was impaired or lost due to a
specific disorder, disorder or condition.
         [0050]   As used herein, the terms "enantiomers,"        "stereoisomers," and "optical
isomers may be used interchangeably and refer to molecules which contain an asymmetric or
                                               -11-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
chiral center and are mirror images of one another. Further, the terms "enantiomers,"
"stereoisomers," or "optical isomers" describe a molecule which, in a given configuration,
cannot be superimposed on its mirror images.
         [0051]   As used herein, the terms "optically pure" or "enantiomerically pure" may
be taken to indicate that a composition contains at least 99.95% of a single optical isomer of a
compound. The term "enantiomerically enriched" may be taken to indicate that a least 510%
of a composition in a single optical isomer or enantiomer. The term "enantiomeric
enrichment" as used herein refer to an increase in the amount of one enantiomer as compared
to the other. A "racemic" mixture is a mixture of about equal amounts of (6R) and (6S)
enantiomers of a chiral molecule.
         [0052]   Throughout this disclosure, the word "pramipexole" will refer to (6S)
enantiomer of 2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-6-(propylamino)benzothiazole         unless otherwise
specified.
         [0053]   The term "pharmaceutical composition" shall mean a composition including
at least one active ingredient, whereby the composition is amenable to investigation for a
specified, efficacious outcome in a mammal (for example, without limitation, a human).
Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand and appreciate the techniques appropriate
for determining whether an active ingredient has a desired efficacious outcome based upon
the needs of the artisan. A pharmaceutical composition may, for example, contain
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of dexpramipexole as the active
ingredient. Alternatively, a pharmaceutical composition may contain dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of dexpramipexole as the active ingredient.
         [0054]   "Pharmaceutially acceptable salt" is meant to indicate those salts which are,
within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of a
patient without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response and the like, and are
commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well
known in the art. For example, Berge et al. (1977) J. Pharm. Sciences, Vol 6., 1-19, describes
pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail. A pharmaceutical acceptable "salt" is any acid
addition salt, preferably a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt, including, but not
limited to, halogenic acid salts such as hydrobromic, hydrochloric, hydrofloric and
hydroiodic acid salt; an inorganic acid salt such as, for example, nitric, perchloric, sulfuric
and phosphoric acid salt; an organic acid salt such as, for example, sulfonic acid salts
(methanesulfonic,      trifluoromethan   sulfonic,     ethanesulfonic,   benzenesulfonic      or
p-toluenesufonic, acetic, malic, fumaric, succinic, citric, benzonic gluconic, lactic, mandelic,
                                             -12-

 WO 2015/023786                                                              PCT/US2014/050943
mucic, pamoic, pantothenic, oxalic and maleic acid salts; and an amino acid salt such as
aspartic or glutamic acid salt. The acid addition salt may be a mono- or di-acid addition salt,
such as a di-hydrohalogic, di-sulfuric, di-phosphoric or di-organic acid salt. In all cases, the
acid addition salt is used as an achiral reagent which is not selected on the basis of any
expected or known preference for the interaction with or precipitation of a specific optical
isomer of the products of this disclosure.
        [0055]     As used herein, the term "daily dose amount" refers to the amount of
dexpramipexole per day that is administered or prescribed to a patient. This amount can be
administered in multiple unit doses or in a single unit does, in a single time during the day or
at multiple times during the day.
        [0056]   A "dose amount" as used herein, is generally equal to the dosage of the
active ingredient which may be administered once per day, or may be administered several
times a day (e.g., the unit dose is a fraction of the desired daily dose). For example, a non
effective dose amount of 0.5 mg/day of pramipexole may be administered as 1 dose of 0.5
mg, 2 doses of 0.25 mg each or 4 doses of 0.125 mg. The term "unit dose" as used herein
may be taken to indicate a discrete amount of the therapeutic composition which comprises a
predetermined amount of the active compound in a single composition, or multiple
compositions that are administered at substantially the same time. A unit dose may represent
the daily dose or may be a fraction of the daily dose.
        [0057]     Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of treating a
condition in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein the condition is treated. In some embodiments, the levels of plasma cells, B
cell prolymphocytes or a combination thereof in the subject is reduced following
administration to the subject of a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        [0058]     Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of treating a
condition in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein the subject's level of myeloproliferative cells is reduced. In certain
embodiments, the myeloproliferative         cells are  selected   from plasma      cells, B-cell
prolymphocytes and a combination thereof.
        [0059]     Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of treating plasma
cell disorders and B-cell disorders in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to
                                               -13-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein the condition is treated. In some embodiments, the levels of
plasma cells, B-cells or a combination thereof in the subject is reduced following
administration to the subject of a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        [0060]      Various embodiments described herein are directed to a method of treating
a condition characterized by normal levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells or elevated levels of
plasma cells and/or B-cells in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to the
subject a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, wherein the levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells are reduced. In some
embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells.
In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by normal levels of plasma cells and/or
B-cells in tissues including, but not limited to bone marrow, bone, kidney, lymph nodes, and
combinations thereof. In yet other embodiments, the condition is characterized by normal
levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells in the peripheral blood and tissues. In some
embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells
in tissues including, but not limited to bone marrow, bone, kidney, lymph nodes, and
combinations thereof. In yet other embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated
levels of plasma cells and/or B-cell prolymphocytes in the peripheral blood and tissues. In
some embodiments, the condition is multiple myeloma.
        [0061]      In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by normal levels of
plasma cells or elevated levels of plasma cells. In some embodiments, the condition is
characterized by normal levels of B-cells or elevated levels of B-cells. In some embodiments,
the condition is characterized by elevated levels of B-cells with normal levels of plasma cells.
In other embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells with
normal levels of B-cells. In other embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated
levels of B-cells and elevated levels of plasma cells. In other embodiments, the condition is
characterized by normal levels of B-cells and normal levels of plasma cells. In the foregoing
embodiments, the normal or elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells (as the case may
be) may be in tissues including, but not limited to bone marrow, bone, kidney, lymph nodes,
and combinations thereof. In the foregoing embodiments, the normal or elevated levels of
plasma cells and/or B-cells (as the case may be) may be in the peripheral blood and tissues.
        [0062]      In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells and/or B-cells in the peripheral blood, tissue, or a combination thereof. In some
                                               -14-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells
in tissue. In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma
cells and/or B-cells in tissues including, but not limited to bone marrow, bone, kidney, lymph
nodes, and combinations thereof In yet other embodiments, the condition is characterized by
elevated levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells in the peripheral blood and tissues.
         [0063]     Some embodiments are directed to methods of treating a condition
characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells in a subject comprising administering to the
subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the level of plasma cells are reduced. In
some embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells in the
peripheral blood, bone marrow, other tissues, or a combination thereof                  In some
embodiments, the condition is characterized by the presence of monoclonal proteins in
peripheral blood, in urine or a combination thereof.
         [0064]     In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% of total cells in the bone
marrow and < 3 grams per deciliter of serum monoclonal proteins. In some embodiments, a
condition characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma
cells < 10% of total cells in the bone marrow and serum            B2-microglobulin levels < 3.5
mg/liter. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells
is characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum    p2
microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter and serum albumin levels > 3.5 mg/deciliter. In other
embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% of total cells in
the bone marrow and serum p2-microglobulin levels > 5.5 mg/liter. The condition may be
further characterized by normal amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and
variable symptoms. In further embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of
plasma cells < 10% in the bone marrow and no serum monoclonal proteins present. In yet
further embodiments, the condition may be characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% of
total cells in the bone marrow, serum      p2-microglobulin    levels from 3.5 mg/liter to < 5.5
mg/deciliter regardless of serum albumin levels. In other embodiments, the condition is
characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% in the bone marrow and > 2 x 109 cells per liter
or > 20% of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or
kidney dysfunction.
         [00651      In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone
                                               -15-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
marrow and < 3 grams per deciliter of serum monoclonal proteins. In other embodiments, the
condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone marrow,
serum   p2-microglobulin   levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and serum albumin levels > 3.5 mg/deciliter.
The condition may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of
monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In addition, the condition may be classified as
asymptomatic or may have bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In further embodiments, the
condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone marrow,
serum   p2-microglobulin   levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and serum albumin levels < 3.5 mg/deciliter.
The condition may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of
monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney
dysfunction. In yet further embodiments, the condition may be characterized by levels of
plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum    B2-microglobulin levels from 3.5
mg/liter to < 5.5 mg/deciliter regardless of serum albumin levels. The condition may be
further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the
peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In other embodiments,
the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone
marrow and serum      p2-microglobulin   levels > 5.5 mg/liter. The condition may be further
characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the
peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In further
embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% in the bone
marrow and no serum monoclonal proteins present.
         [0066]     In further embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma
cells > 30% in the bone marrow and no serum monoclonal proteins present. The condition
may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal
proteins in the peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In other
embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells > 30% in the bone
marrow and > 2 x 109 cells per liter or > 20% of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood
and the presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In other embodiments, a condition
characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells >
30% of total cells in the bone marrow and < 3 grams per deciliter of serum monoclonal
proteins. In other embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells >
30% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum        p2-microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and
serum albumin levels > 3.5 mg/deciliter. The condition may be further characterized by
normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In
                                               -16-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
addition, the condition may be classified as asymptomatic or may have bone and/or kidney
dysfunction. In further embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells
> 30% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum      2-microglobulin    levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and
serum albumin levels < 3.5 mg/deciliter. The condition may be further characterized by
normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and the
presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. In yet further embodiments, the condition may
be characterized by levels of plasma cells > 30% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum      P2
microglobulin levels from 3.5 mg/liter to < 5.5 mg/deciliter regardless of serum albumin
levels. The condition may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts
of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney
dysfunction. In other embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells >
30% of total cells in the bone marrow and serum    P2-microglobulin    levels > 5.5 mg/liter. The
condition may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of
monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and the presence of bone and/or kidney
dysfunction. In further embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells
> 30% in the bone marrow and no serum monoclonal proteins present.
        [0067]      In some embodiments, the condition is monoclonal gammopathy of
undetermined significance. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance may be
characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells <
10% of total cells in the bone marrow and < 3 grams per deciliter of serum monoclonal
proteins.   Monoclonal    gammopathy     of undetermined       significance    may be     further
characterized by normal amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and variable
symptoms.
        [0068]      In some embodiments, the condition is primary systemic amyloidosis.
Primary systemic amyloidosis may be characterized by elevated levels of plasma cells is
characterized by levels of plasma cells < 10% of total cells in the bone marrow and < 3 grams
per deciliter of serum monoclonal proteins. Primary systemic amyloidosis may be further
characterized by normal amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood and variable
symptoms.
        [0069]      In some embodiments, the condition is multiple myeloma. Multiple
myeloma may be classified as stage I, stage II, or stage III. Stage I multiple myeloma may be
characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum P2
microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and serum albumin levels > 3.5 mg/deciliter. Stage I
multiple myeloma may be further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of
                                             -17-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In addition, stage I multiple myeloma may be
may be further characterized by the presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction. Stage II
multiple myeloma may be characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the
bone marrow, serum     p2-microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and serum albumin levels < 3.5
mg/deciliter or serum p2-microglobulin levels from 3.5 mg/liter to < 5.5 mg/deciliter
regardless of serum albumin levels. Stage II multiple myeloma may be further characterized
by normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In
addition, stage II multiple myeloma may be further characterized by the presence of bone
and/or kidney dysfunction. Stage III multiple myeloma may be characterized by levels of
plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone marrow, serum      p2-microglobulin  levels > 5.5
mg/liter. Stage III multiple myeloma may be further characterized by normal to a slight
increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In addition, stage III
multiple myeloma may be further characterized by the presence of bone and/or kidney
dysfunction.
        [0070]      In some embodiments, the condition is smoldering myeloma. Smoldering
myeloma may be characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% of total cells in the bone
marrow, serum     p2-microglobulin  levels < 3.5 mg/liter, and serum albumin levels > 3.5
mg/deciliter. Smoldering myeloma may be further characterized by normal to a slight
increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In addition, smoldering
myeloma may have bone and/or kidney dysfunction.
        [0071]      In   some  embodiments,      the  condition   is  nonsecretory   myeloma.
Nonsecretory myeloma is characterized by levels of plasma cells above about 30% in the
bone marrow and no serum monoclonal proteins present. Nonsecretory myeloma may be
further characterized by normal to a slight increase in amounts of monoclonal proteins in the
peripheral blood. In addition, nonsecretory myeloma may have the presence of bone and/or
kidney dysfunction.
        [0072]      In some embodiments, the condition is a plasmacytoma.
        [0073]      In some embodiments, the condition is plasma cell leukemia. Plasma cell
leukemia may be characterized by levels of plasma cells > 10% in the bone marrow. Plasma
cell leukemia may be further characterized by > 2 x 109 cells per liter or > 20% of
monoclonal proteins in the peripheral blood. In addition, plasma cell leukemia may have the
presence of bone and/or kidney dysfunction.
        [0074]      Some embodiments are directed to methods of treating a condition
characterized by elevated levels of B-cells in a subject comprising administering to the
                                              -18-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the level of B-cells are reduced. In some
embodiments, the condition is characterized by elevated levels of B-cell prolymphocytes in
the peripheral blood, bone marrow, other tissues, or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of B-cells is characterized by an
increased percentage of B-cell prolymphocytes above about 55% in the peripheral blood. In
some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of B-cells is characterized
by an increased percentage of B-cell prolymphocytes above about 55% in the bone marrow.
         [0075]     In some embodiments, the condition is selected from diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), small cell lymphocytic
lymphoma,       mantle    cell    lymphoma       (MCL),   Burkitt   lymphoma,      Waldenstr6m's
macroblobulinemia, or any combination thereof.
         [0076]     In other embodiments, the condition is a B-cell leukemia selected from B
cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, B-cell acute
lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia, precursor B-cell lymphoblastic
leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, or any combination thereof.
         [0077]     In some embodiments, the condition is B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia.
         [0078]     In some embodiments, treating the condition results in a reduction of the
levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells. In some embodiments, the reduction of the levels of
plasma cells and/or B-cells is in the peripheral blood, tissue, or a combination thereof. In
certain embodiments, treating the condition results in a reduction of the levels of plasma cells
and/or B-cells in tissues including, but not limited to bone marrow, bone, kidney, lymph
nodes, and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, the levels are reduced by at least
10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 2 5 %, at least 30%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at least
45%, at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 6 0%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least
8 %             8              9              9
  0  , at least   5%, at least   0%, at least   5%, or 100% . In certain embodiments, the levels
are reduced to normal. In certain embodiments, the levels are reduced to zero within the level
of detection.
         [0079]     In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of plasma cells is a
subject with levels of plasma cells considered to be within the normal range or limits for the
particular subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells less than about 10% of total cells in the
bone marrow. In some embodiments, a subject with elevated levels of plasma cells is a
subject with levels of plasma cells considered to be outside of the normal range or limit for
                                                  -19-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
the particular subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, the condition is characterized
by levels of plasma cells above about 10% of total cells in the bone marrow. In some
embodiments, the condition is characterized by levels of plasma cells above about 30% of
total cells in the bone marrow.
         [0080]      In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of plasma cells is a
subject with levels of plasma cells considered to be within the normal range or limits for the
particular subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by
the presence of monoclonal proteins in the serum, in the urine or a combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the condition is characterized by serum monoclonal immunoglobulin
levels of < 3 grams/deciliter. In some embodiments, a subject with elevated levels of plasma
cells is a subject with levels of plasma cells considered to be outside of the normal range or
limit for the particular subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, the condition is
characterized by the presence of monoclonal proteins in the blood, in the urine or a
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by serum
monoclonal immunoglobulin levels of > 3 grams/deciliter. In some embodiments, the
condition is characterized by serum   p2-microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter and serum albumin
levels > 3.5 g/deciliter. In some embodiments, the condition is characterized by serum       p2
microglobulin levels < 3.5 mg/liter and serum albumin levels < 3.5 mg/deciliter, or serum    p2
microglobulin levels from 3.5 mg/liter to < 5.5 mg/liter regardless of serum albumin level. In
some embodiments, the condition is characterized by serum        p2-microglobulin   levels > 5.5
mg/liter.
         [0081]    In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of plasma cells is a
subject with levels of plasma cells considered to be within the normal range or limits for the
particular subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells of less than about 1% of cells in the
peripheral blood. In some embodiments, a subject with normal levels of plasma cells is
characterized by levels of plasma cells of less than about 3% of cells in the peripheral blood.
In some embodiments, a subject with elevated levels of plasma cells is a subject with levels
of plasma cells considered to be outside of the normal range or limit for the particular subject
and/or condition. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells above about 3% of cells in the
peripheral blood. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells selected from above about 5% of cells
in the peripheral blood, about 10% of cells in the peripheral blood, and about 20% of cells in
                                              -20-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells above about 0.5 x 109 cells per liter in
the peripheral blood. In yet other embodiments a condition characterized by elevated levels of
plasma cells is characterized by levels of plasma cells selected from above about 1.0 x 10 9
cells per liter in the peripheral blood, about 1.5 x 109 cells per liter in the peripheral blood,
about 2.0 x 109 cells per liter in the peripheral blood.
         [0082]   In some embodiments, a subject with elevated levels of B-cells is a subject
with levels of B-cells considered to be outside of the normal range or limit for the particular
subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels
of B-cells is characterized by levels of B-cell prolymphocytes above about 15% in the
peripheral blood. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of B
cells is characterized by an increased percentage of B-cell prolymphocytes selected from
above about 55% in the peripheral blood, about 75% in the peripheral blood, and about 90%
in the peripheral blood.
         [0083]   In some embodiments, a subject with elevated levels of B-cells is a subject
with levels of B-cells considered to be outside of the normal range or limit for the particular
subject and/or condition. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels
of B-cells is characterized by levels of B-cell prolymphocytes above about 15% in the bone
marrow. In some embodiments, a condition characterized by elevated levels of B-cell is
characterized by an increased percentage of B-cell prolymphocytes selected from above
about 55% in the bone marrow, about 75% in the bone marrow, and about 90% in the bone
marrow.
         [0084]      In   some    embodiments,     the   condition is    selected   from   B-cell
lymphocytosis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
         [0085]      In some embodiments, the condition is not a neurodegenerative disease. In
some embodiments, the condition is not Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, or
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
         [0086]      In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may include administering
daily doses of about 0.1 mg or more, about 1 mg or more, about 10 mg or more, about 50 mg
or more, about 75 mg or more, about 100 mg or more, about 125 mg or more, about 150 mg
or more, about 175 mg or more, about 200 mg or more, about 225 mg or more, about 250 mg
or more, about 275 mg or more, about 300 mg or more, about 400 mg or more, about 450 mg
                                                -21-

 WO 2015/023786                                                          PCT/US2014/050943
or more, about 500 mg or more, about 600 mg or more, about 700 mg or more, about 800 mg
or more or about 1,000 mg or more, about 1,200 mg or more or about 1,500 mg or more.
        [0087]     In    some  embodiments,     the  therapeutically effective   amount   of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is from about 50 mg to about
1,500 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount is from about
100 mg to about 1,500 mg per day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount is from about 150 mg to about 1,500 mg per day. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount is from about 300 mg to about 1,500 mg per day. In some
embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount is from about 50 mg to about 300 mg per
day. In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount is from about 150 mg to
about 300 mg per day.
        [0088]     In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering the daily dose as a fraction of the daily dose (as described herein)
two or more times per day. In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective
amount comprises administering a dose equal to about half of a daily dose twice per day. In
some embodiments, the dose is administered every about 12 hours. In some embodiments,
administering a therapeutically effective amount comprises administering about 75 mg two
times per day. In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering about 25 mg two times per day, about 75 mg two times per day,
about 150 mg two times per day, or about 300 mg two times per day.
        [0089]     In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering a single unit dose of dexpramipexole of about 0.1 mg or more, about
1 mg or more, about 10 mg or more, about 25 mg or more, about 50 mg or more, about 75 mg
or more, about 100 mg or more, about 125 mg or more, about 150 mg or more, about 175 mg
or more, about 200 mg or more, about 225 mg or more, about 250 mg or more, about 275 mg
or more, about 300 mg or more, about 400 mg or more, about 450 mg or more, about 500 mg
or more, about 600 mg or more, about 700 mg or more, about 800 mg or more, about 1,000
mg or more, about 3,000 mg or more, or about 5,000 mg or more. In some embodiments, the
single unit dose comprises from about 600 mg to about 900 mg of dexpramipexole.
        [0090]     In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering a single unit dose amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof from about 25 mg to about 5,000 mg, from about 50 mg to about 5,000
mg, from about 100 mg to about 5,000 mg, from about 150 mg to about 5,000 mg, from
about 200 mg to about 5,000 mg, from about 250 mg to about 5,000 mg, from about 300 mg
                                             -22-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
to about 5,000 mg, from about 400 mg to about 5,000 mg, from 450 mg to about 5,000 mg,
from about 100 mg to about 3,000 mg, from about 150 mg to about 3,000 mg, from about 200
mg to about 3,000 mg, from about 250 mg to about 3,000 mg, from about 300 mg to about
3,000 mg, from about 400 mg to about 3,000 mg, from 450 mg to about 3,000 mg, from
about 100 mg to about 1,000 mg, from about 150 mg to about 1,000 mg, from about 200 mg
to about 1,000 mg, from about 250 mg to about 1,000 mg, from about 300 mg to about 1,000
mg, from about 400 mg to about 1,000 mg, from 450 mg to about 1,000 mg, from about 500
mg to about 1000 mg, from about 600 mg to about 1,000 mg. In some embodiments, the
single unit dose amount may be 10 mg/day to 1,500 mg/day, more preferably 100 mg/day to
600 mg/day. In some embodiments, the single unit dose amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is from about 600 mg to about 900 mg. In some
embodiments, the single unit dose amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is from about 300 mg to about 1,500 mg. In some embodiments, such
single unit doses may be administered once per day or multiple times per day, such as twice
per day or three times per day.
         [0091]     In another embodiment, administering a therapeutically effective amount
comprises administering a single unit dose comprising at least about 50 mg of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and no more than about 1.5 mg
of pramipexole. In another aspect, the present invention provides a single unit dose
comprising at least about 75 mg of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof and no more than about 1.5 mg of pramipexole, or at least about 100 mg of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and no more than about 1.5 mg
of pramipexole. In some embodiments, the single unit dose comprises no more than 1.0 mg,
no more than 0.333 mg no more than 0.3 mg no more than 0.2 mg, no more than 0.125 mg of
pramipexole.
         [0092]     In some embodiments, the single unit dose further              comprises a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments, such single unit doses may be
administered once per day or multiple times per day, such as twice per day or three times per
day.
         [0093]     One of ordinary skill in the art will understand and appreciate the dosages
and timing of the dosages to be administered to a subject in need thereof. The doses and
duration of treatment may vary, and may be based on assessment by one of ordinary skill in
the art based on monitoring and measuring improvements in neuronal and non-neuronal
tissues. This assessment may be made based on outward physical signs of improvement, such
                                               -23-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
as increased muscle control, or on internal physiological signs or markers. The doses may
also depend on the condition or disease being treated, the degree of the condition or disease
being treated and further on the age, weight, body mass index and body surface area of the
subject.
         [0094]     In some embodiments, therapeutically effective amounts, daily doses, or
single unit doses of dexpramipexole may be administered once per day or multiple times per
day, such as 1 to 5 doses, twice per day or three times per day.
         [0095]     Embodiments are also directed to a dosage regimen for administering
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat the conditions disclosed
herein. For example, in some embodiments, the methods described herein may comprise a
dosage regimen that may include a plurality of daily doses having an equal amount of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as the initial dose in one or
more unit doses. In other embodiments, the dosage regimen may include an initial dose of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in one or more unit doses, then
a plurality of daily doses having a lower amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof as the initial dose in one or more unit doses. The dosage regimen may
administer an initial dose followed by one or more maintenance doses. The plurality of doses
following the administering of an initial dose may be maintenance doses.
         [0096]     Such embodiments are not limited by the amount of the initial dose and
daily doses. For example, in particular embodiments, the initial dose and each of the plurality
of daily doses may be from about 0.1 mg or more, about 1 mg or more, about 10 mg or more,
about 50 mg or more, about 75 mg or more, about 100 mg or more, about 125 mg or more,
about 150 mg or more, about 175 mg or more, about 200 mg or more, about 225 mg or more,
about 250 mg or more, about 275 mg or more, about 300 mg or more, about 400 mg or more,
about 450 mg or more, about 500 mg or more, about 600 mg or more, about 700 mg or more,
about 800 mg or more, about 1,000 mg or more, 1,200 mg or more, or about 1,500 mg or
more of dexpramipexole. In some embodiments, the one or more unit doses of the dosage
regimen may be 1 to 5 unit doses, and in such embodiments, each of the one or more unit
doses may be substantially equal.
         [0097]     In some embodiments, two unit doses of about 75 mg are administered
daily, wherein each unit dose may be substantially equal. In some embodiments, three unit
doses of about 75 mg are administered daily, wherein each unit dose may be substantially
equal.
                                                -24-

 WO 2015/023786                                                              PCT/US2014/050943
         [0098]   In other embodiments, the maintenance therapy dosing may include
administering less than the initial daily dose, such as less than about 50 mg, less than about
75 mg, less than about 150 mg, less than about 300 mg, or less than 600 mg of
dexpramipexole per day. Following the initial dosing regimen, the subject may be
administered a maintenance dosing regimen of, for example, about 0.1 mg or more, about 1
mg or more, about 10 mg or more, about 50 mg or more, about 75 mg or more, about 100 mg
or more, about 125 mg or more, about 150 mg or more, about 175 mg or more, about 200 mg
or more, about 225 mg or more, about 250 mg or more, about 275 mg or more, about 300 mg
or more, about 400 mg or more, about 450 mg or more, about 500 mg or more, about 600 mg
or more, about 700 mg or more, about 800 mg or more, or about 1,000 mg or more, about
1,200 mg or more, or about 1,500 mg or more of dexpramipexole for a period of time such as,
for example, at least 12 weeks or more or at least 6 months or 1, 2, 3, 5 or 10 years or more.
         [0099]     In further embodiments, the method may include an initial dosing regimen
and a maintenance dosing regimen. In certain embodiments, the initial dosing regimen may
include administering a higher dose of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof than the maintenance dosing regimen as either a single administration or by
administering an increased dosage for a limited period of time prior to beginning a
maintenance dosing regimen of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof. In some embodiments, subjects undergoing a maintenance regimen may be
administered one or more higher-dosage treatments at one or more times during the
maintenance dosage regimen.
         [0100]      In certain embodiments, the initial dosing regimen and the maintenance
dosing regimen may be about 50 mg to about 1500 mg or more of dexpramipexole, about 150
mg to about 300 mg or more of dexpramipexole, about 300 mg to about 500 mg or more of
dexpramipexole per day, or from about 300 mg to about 600 mg or more of dexpramipexole
per day.
         [0101]     In some embodiments, the initial dosing regimen and the maintenance
dosing regimen may include administering dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof once per day, multiple times per day, such as twice per day or three times per day.
In such embodiments, the dosage regimen may continue administering an initial dose for 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 days, up to 4 weeks, up to 8 weeks or up to 12 weeks. In some embodiments,
the dosage regimen for administering an initial dose and/or a maintenance dose may continue
for an extended period of time. Various embodiments are directed to a dosing regimen for
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in which maintenance doses are
                                              -25-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
maintained for an extended period of time without titration or otherwise changing the dosing
regimen. In such embodiments, the extended period of time may be about 12 weeks or longer,
about 6 months or longer, about 1 year or longer, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 10 years or longer, and in
certain embodiments, an indefinite period of time.
        [0102]      Each of the dosage regimens for dexpramipexole described herein may be
used in any of the methods, and the dosing regimen may be carried out using any of the
compositions described herein.
        [0103]      In some embodiments, treatment with a therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole is without the adverse side effects associated with dopamine agonism.
        [0104]   Some embodiments further comprise administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of one or more secondary agents. In some embodiments, the
therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or salt thereof and the therapeutically
effective amount of the one or more secondary agents may be administered individually or
combined into a single dosage composition. In some embodiments, the therapeutically
effective amount of dexpramipexole or salt thereof and the therapeutically effective amount
of the one or more secondary agents are administered simultaneously or sequentially.
        [0105]   In some embodiments, the one or more secondary agent is any drug that
induces anti-inflammatory effects or is capable of decreasing levels of plasma cells and/or B
cells in the subject. In some embodiments, the secondary agent is an antibody. In some
embodiments, the secondary agent is not dexpramipexole. In some embodiments, the
secondary agent is selected from a corticosteroid, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID), an intravenous immunoglobulin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a
monoclonal     antibody directed against one or more pro-inflammatory            cytokines,   a
chemotherapeutic agent and a combination thereof In some embodiments, the secondary
agent may be a glucocorticoid, a corticosteroid, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug
(NSAID), a phenolic antioxidant, an anti-proliferative drug, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, an
anti IL-5 or an IL5 receptor monoclonal antibody, an anti IL-13 or an anti IL-13 receptor
monoclonal antibody, an IL-4 or an IL-4 receptor monoclonal antibody, an anti IgE
monoclonal antibody, a monoclonal antibody directed against one or more pro-inflammatory
cytokines, a TNF-a inhibitor, a fusion protein, a chemotherapeutic agent or a combination
thereof In some embodiments, the secondary agent is an anti-inflammatory drug. In some
embodiments, anti-inflammatory       drugs include, but are not limited to, alclofenac,
alclometasone dipropionate, algestone acetonide, alpha amylase, amcinafal, amcinafide,
amfenac sodium, amiprilose hydrochloride, anakinra, anirolac, anitrazafen,            apazone,
                                             -26-

 WO 2015/023786                                                                PCT/US2014/050943
balsalazide disodium, bendazac, benoxaprofen, benzydamine hydrochloride, bromelains,
broperamole, budesonide, carprofen, cicloprofen, cintazone, cliprofen, clobetasol propionate,
clobetasone butyrate, clopirac, cloticasone propionate, cormethasone acetate, cortodoxone,
curcumin, deflazacort, desonide, desoximetasone, dexamethasone dipropionate, diclofenac
potassium, diclofenac sodium, diflorasone diacetate, diflumidone sodium, diflunisal,
difluprednate, diftalone, dimethyl sulfoxide, drocinonide, endrysone, enlimomab, enolicam
sodium, epirizole, etodolac,       etofenamate,    felbinac, fenamole,     fenbufen, fenclofenac,
fenclorac, fendosal, fenpipalone, fentiazac, flazalone, fluazacort, flufenamic acid, flumizole,
flunisolide acetate, flunixin, flunixin meglumine, fluocortin butyl, fluorometholone acetate,
fluquazone,    flurbiprofen,   fluretofen,   fluticasone    propionate,   furaprofen,  furobufen,
halcinonide, halobetasol propionate, halopredone acetate, ibufenac, ibuprofen, ibuprofen
aluminum, ibuprofen piconol, ilonidap, indomethacin, indomethacin sodium, indoprofen,
indoxole, intrazole, isoflupredone acetate, isoxepac, isoxicam, ketoprofen, lofemizole
hydrochloride, lomoxicam, loteprednol etabonate, lysofylline, meclofenamate               sodium,
meclofenamic acid, meclorisone dibutyrate, mefenamic acid, mesalamine, meseclazone,
methylprednisolone suleptanate, momiflumate, nabumetone, naproxen, naproxen sodium,
naproxol, nimazone, olsalazine sodium, orgotein, orpanoxin, oxaprozin, oxyphenbutazone,
paranyline hydrochloride, pentosan polysulfate sodium, phenbutazone sodium glycerate,
pirfenidone, piroxicam, piroxicam cinnamate, piroxicam olamine, pirprofen, prednazate,
prifelone, prodolic acid, proquazone, proxazole, proxazole citrate, rimexolone, romazarit,
salcolex, salnacedin, salsalate, sanguinarium chloride, seclazone, sermetacin, sudoxicam,
sulindac, suprofen, talmetacin, talniflumate, talosalate, tebufelone, tenidap, tenidap sodium,
tenoxicam, tesicam, tesimide, tetrydamine, tiopinac, tixocortol pivalate, tolmetin, tolmetin
sodium, triclonide, triflumidate, zidometacin, zomepirac sodium, aspirin (acetylsalicylic
acid),   salicylic   acid,    corticosteroids,    glucocorticoids,   tacrolimus,    pimecorlimus,
mepolizumab, prodrugs thereof, and a combination thereof. In some embodiments the
tyrosine kinase inhibitor is imatinib. In some embodiments the anti IL-5 monoclonal antibody
is mepolizumab or reslizumab. In some embodiments, the IL-5 receptor monoclonal antibody
is benralizumab. In some embodiments, the anti IL-13 monoclonal antibody is lebrikizumab
or dulipumab. In some embodiments the anti IL-4 monoclonal antibody is dulipumab. In
some embodiments, the anti IgE monoclonal antibody is omalizumab. In some embodiments,
the TNF-a inhibitor is infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab pegol, or golimumab. In some
embodiments, the fusion protein is etanercept.
                                                -27-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
         [0106]      Some embodiments further comprise administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective procedure such as plasmapheresis.
         [0107]     Various embodiments may also comprise an induction step comprising
administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a secondary agent that induces anti
inflammatory effects or is capable of decreasing levels of plasma cells and/or B-cells in the
subject prior to administration of a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, administration of the
secondary agent may continue or may become discontinued once administration of
dexpramipexole or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof starts.
         [0108]   In some embodiments, the induction step comprises administering a
therapeutically effective amount of the secondary agent for a period of about 1 day to about 6
months. In some embodiments, the secondary agent is administered for a period of about 1
day, about 2 days, about 3 days, about 4 days, about 5 days, about 6 days, about 1 week,
about 2 weeks, about 3 weeks, about 1 month, about 2 months, about 3 months, about 4
months, about 5 months, or about 6 months. In some embodiments, the induction step
comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of the secondary agent for a
period of less than 1 week, about 1 to 2 weeks, about 2 to 3 weeks, about 3 to 4 weeks, about
1 to 2 months, about 2 to 3 months, or about 3 to 4 months. In yet other embodiments, the
induction step comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of the secondary
agent until a pre-determined level of plasma cells and/or B-cells is reached, after which the
induction step is discontinued, titrated out, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments,
the induction step may use any of the methods described herein. In some embodiments, the
induction step is followed by the administration of the dosage regimens for dexpramipexole
described herein as well as any of the compositions described herein.
         [0109]   In any of the embodiments described, a therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a therapeutically effective
amount of one or more of the secondary agents described above may be provided
adjunctively in separate pharmaceutical compositions or in a single dose pharmaceutical
composition in which the dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and
one or more secondary agent are combined. In some embodiments, the one or more
secondary agent is a therapeutic agent capable of decreasing levels of plasma cells and/or B
cells in the subject.
         [0110]   Specific modes of administration of dexpramipexole or salt thereof will
depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose
                                               -28-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
regimen may be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the
clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be
administered may be that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be
administered may depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated, e.g., the
particular animal or human subject treated, age, weight, body mass index, body surface area,
health, types of concurrent treatment, if any, and frequency of treatments, and can be easily
determined by one of skill in the art (e.g., by the clinician).
        [0111]     In the embodiments described herein, the therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered in a
pharmaceutical composition. Each of the pharmaceutical compositions described herein may
be used in any of the methods or dosage regimens described herein.
        [0112]     In some embodiments, administering a therapeutically effective amount of
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may include administering
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a controlled release form.
        [0113]       Pharmaceutical     compositions      containing    dexpramipexole    or   a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a solid dosage may include, but are not limited to,
softgels, tablets, capsules, cachets, pellets, pills, powders and granules; topical dosage forms
which include, but are not limited to, solutions, powders, fluid emulsions, fluid suspensions,
semi-solids, ointments, pastes, creams, gels and jellies, and foams; and parenteral dosage
forms which include, but are not limited to, solutions, suspensions, emulsions, and dry
powder; comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present invention.
        [0114]       It is also known in the art that the active ingredients may be contained in
such compositions with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents, fillers, disintegrants, binders,
lubricants, surfactants, hydrophobic vehicles, water-soluble vehicles, emulsifiers, buffers,
humectants, moisturizers, solubilizers, preservatives and the like. The means and methods for
administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic
references for guidance. For example, Modem Pharmaceutics, Banker & Rhodes, Marcel
Dekker, Inc. (1979); and Goodman & Gilman's The Pharmaceutical Basis of Therapeutics,
6th Edition, MacMillan Publishing Co., New York (1980) can be consulted.
        [0115]       In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions may be suitable for
oral administration such as, for example, a solid oral dosage form or a capsule, and in certain
embodiments, the composition may be a tablet. Such tablets may include any number of
additional agents such as, for example, one or more binder, one or more lubricant, one or
more diluent, one or more surface active agent, one or more dispersing agent, one or more
                                                -29-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
colorant, and the like. Such tablets may be prepared by any method known in the art, for
example, by compression or molding. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing
in a suitable machine the ingredients of the composition in a free-flowing form such as a
powder or granules, and molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a
mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets, of
some embodiments, may be uncoated and, in other embodiments, they may be coated by
known techniques.
        [0116]     In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions may be provided
in a dragee core with suitable coatings. In such embodiments, dragee cores may be prepared
using concentrated sugar solutions, which may optionally contain gum arabic, talc, polyvinyl
pyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions,
and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. In some embodiments, dyestuffs or
pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize
different combinations of active compound doses. In yet other embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions including a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole prepared for
oral administration may include, but are not limited to, push-fit capsules made of gelatin, as
well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol.
The push-fit capsules may contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as, e.g.,
lactose, binders such as, e.g., starches, and/or lubricants such as, e.g., talc or magnesium
stearate and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds may be dissolved
or suspended in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene
glycols. In addition, stabilizers may be added. All compositions for oral administration
should be in dosages suitable for such administration.
        [0117]     In embodiments in which the tablets and dragee cores are coated, the
coatings may delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby
providing a sustained action over a longer period. Additionally, such coatings may be adapted
for release of dexpramipexole         or a pharmaceutically acceptable      salt thereof in a
predetermined pattern (e.g., in order to achieve a controlled release composition) or it may be
adapted not to release the active compound until after passage of the stomach (enteric
coating). Suitable coatings encompassed by such embodiments may include, but are not
limited to, sugar coating, film coating (e.g., hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, methylcellulose,
methyl hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, acrylate
copolymers, polyethylene glycols and/or polyvinylpyrrolidone), or an enteric coating (e.g.,
methacrylic acid copolymer, cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose
                                                -30-

 WO 2015/023786                                                             PCT/US2014/050943
phthalate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate,
shellac, and/or ethyl cellulose). Furthermore, a time delay material such as, for example,
glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be incorporated into the coatings of some
embodiments. In still other embodiments, solid tablet compositions may include a coating
adapted to protect the composition from unwanted chemical changes, for example, to reduce
chemical degradation prior to the release of the active drug substance.
        [0118]     In some     embodiments, the pharmaceutical        compositions    including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable           salt thereof may be prepared as
suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles suitable for injection. In such
embodiments, such liquid compositions may further include formulatory agents such as
suspending, stabilizing and or dispersing agents formulated for parenteral administration.
Such injectable compositions may be administered by any route, for example, subcutaneous,
intravenous, intramuscular, intra-arterial or bolus injection or continuous infusion, and in
embodiments in which injectable compositions are administered by continuous infusion, such
infusion may be carried out for a period of about 15 minutes to about hours. In certain
embodiments, compositions for injection may be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in
ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative.
        [0119]   In other embodiments, dexpramipexole may be formulated as a depot
preparation, and such long acting compositions may be administered by implantation (for
example subcutaneously or intramuscularly) or by intramuscular injection. Depot injections
may be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. In some embodiments,
the frequency of doses of the dexpramipexole described herein administered by depot
injection may be once a month, every three months, or once a year. The compounds may be
formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials (for example, as an emulsion in
an acceptable oil) or ion exchange resins, or as sparingly soluble derivatives, for example, as
a sparingly soluble salt.
        [0120]     In still other embodiments, pharmaceutical         compositions including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be formulated for buccal
or sublingual administration. In such embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions may be
prepared as chewable tablets, flash melts or lozenges formulated in any conventional manner.
        [0121]     In yet other embodiments,         pharmaceutical   compositions    including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be formulated for
administration by inhalation. In such embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions may be
delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer,
                                              -31-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
with the use of a suitable propellant, e.g., dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane,
dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized
aerosol, the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount.
Capsules and cartridges of, e.g., gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated
containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or
starch.
        [0122]      In   further   embodiments,      pharmaceutical     compositions    including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered
intranasally or by inhalation including, but not limited to, an intranasal spray or by pulmonary
inhalation with an appropriate carrier. One suitable route of administration is a depot form
formulated from a biodegradable suitable polymer, e.g., poly-D,L-lactide-coglycolide as
microcapsules, microgranules or cylindrical implants containing dispersed dexpramipexole.
        [0123]      In   further   embodiments,      pharmaceutical     compositions    including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be formulated in rectal
compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas, e.g., containing conventional
suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.
        [0124]      In    some    embodiments,      pharmaceutical      compositions    including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be formulated for
transdermal administration. For example, such pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared
to be applied to a plaster or applied by transdermal, therapeutic systems supplied to the
subject. In other embodiments, pharmaceutical and therapeutic compositions including
dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for transdermal administration
may include a suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients such as, but are not limited to,
calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, various sugars, starches, cellulose derivatives, gelatin,
and polymers such as, e.g., polyethyleneglycols. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions including dexpramipexole may be administered alone as a single therapeutic
agent. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions including dexpramipexole
may be administered in combination with one or more other active ingredients, such as, for
example, adjuvants, protease inhibitors, or other compatible drugs or compounds where such
a combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the
methods described herein.
        [0125]   The pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be prepared,
packaged, or sold in bulk as a single unit dose or as multiple unit doses and may be
administered in the conventional manner by any route where they are active. For example, the
                                               -32-

 WO 2015/023786                                                                 PCT/US2014/050943
compositions may be administered orally, ophthalmically, intravenously, intramuscularly,
intra-arterially,      intramedullary,    intrathecally,     intraventricularly,      transdermally,
subcutaneously,       intraperitoneally, intravesicularly,   intranasally,    enterally,   topically,
sublingually, rectally, by inhalation, by depot injections, or by implants or by use of vaginal
creams, suppositories, pessaries, vaginal rings, rectal suppositories, intrauterine devices, and
transdermal forms such as patches and creams. Specific modes of administration will depend
on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen
may be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to known methods in order to obtain the
optimal clinical response. All of the methods described herein may be carried out by
administering dexpramipexole by any such route for administration described herein.
Additionally, dexpramipexole may be delivered by using any such route of administration for
all of the dosage regimens described herein. The compositions and amounts of non-active
ingredients in such a composition may depend on the amount of the active ingredient, and on
the size and shape of the tablet or capsule. Such parameters may be readily appreciated and
understood by one of skill in the art.
         [0126]       In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compounds may be formulated
readily by combining these compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known
in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds to be formulated as tablets, pills, dragees,
capsules, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, suspensions and the like, for oral ingestion by a
subject to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use may be obtained by adding a
solid excipient, optionally grinding the resulting mixture, and processing the mixture of
granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores.
Suitable excipients include, but are not limited to, fillers such as sugars, including, but not
limited to, lactose, sucrose, mannitol, and sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as, but not
limited to, maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin, gum tragacanth,
methyl     cellulose,   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,     sodium carboxymethylcellulose,         and
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP). In some embodiments, disintegrating agents may be added, such
as, but not limited to, the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt
thereof such as sodium alginate.
         [0127]       In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition may include a
diluent in an amount from about 20% to about 50% by weight of said composition;
optionally, a second diluent in an amount from about 10% to about 3 0% by weight of said
composition; optionally, a disintegrant in an amount from about 2% to about 6% of said
composition; optionally, a lubricant in an amount from about 0.01% to about 2% of said
                                                -33-

 WO 2015/023786                                                           PCT/US2014/050943
composition; and dexpramipexole. In further embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition
may include any amount or combination of microcrystalline                cellulose, mannitol,
croscarmellose sodium, crospovidone, croscarmellose magnesium stearate, or combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition may include microcrystalline
cellulose, mannitol, croscarmellose sodium, magnesium stearate, or a combination thereof. In
other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition may include microcrystalline cellulose
in an amount from about 20% to about 50% by weight of said composition; mannitol in an
amount from about 10% to about 30% by weight of said composition; crospovidone in an
amount from about 2% to about 6% of said composition; magnesium stearate in an amount
from about 0.01% to about 2% of said composition; and dexpramipexole.
        [0128]   The    pharmaceutical   composition   may    have    a   chiral   purity  for
dexpramipexole of at least 99.5%, preferably at least 99.6%, preferably at least 99.7%,
preferably at least 99.8%, preferably at least 99.9%, preferably at least 99.95%, or more
preferably at least 99.99%. In some embodiments, the chiral purity for dexpramipexole is
100%. In some embodiments, the composition has a chiral purity for dexpramipexole of
99.9% or greater.     In some embodiments, the composition         has a chiral purity     for
dexpramipexole of 99.95% or greater. In some embodiments, the composition has a chiral
purity for dexpramipexole of 99.99% or greater. The high chiral purity of the pramipexole
used herein, dexpramipexole, allows for therapeutic compositions that may have a wide
individual and daily dose range.
        [0129]   The embodiments for amounts of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof in the pharmaceutical composition, chiral purity, and dosage form,
which are described herein separately for the sake of brevity, may be joined in any suitable
combination.
        [0130]     In a further embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition may comprise a
therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof and a NOAEL dose amount of pramipexole. The pharmaceutical composition may
further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or excipient. Such embodiments
may further include one or more diluent, one or more disintegrant, one or more lubricant, one
or more pigment or colorant, one or more gelatin, one or more plasticizer and the like.
        [0131]     In some embodiments, the NOAEL dose amount of pramipexole is less
than about 1.50 mg. In other embodiments, the NOAEL dose amount of pramipexole is an
amount that does not exceed about 1.0 mg. In certain embodiments, the NOAEL dose amount
of pramipexole is an amount that does not exceed about 0.75 mg, about 0.5 mg, about 0.25
                                            -34-

 WO 2015/023786                                                            PCT/US2014/050943
mg, about 0.125 mg or about 0.05 mg. In some embodiments, the NOAEL dose amount of
pramipexole is less than about 0.5 mg, less than about 0.125 mg, or less than about 0.05 mg.
In some embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole and a NOAEL
amount of pramipexole are administered in a single unit dose form.
         [0132]    Embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular agent
encompassed by the classes of agents described above, and any agent that falls within any of
these categories may be utilized in embodiments of the invention. Non-limiting examples of
such agents are provided for clarity. Any of the secondary agents described above may be
useful in embodiments of the invention.
         [0133]    The embodiments for disease states, subject type, daily dose amounts,
therapeutically effective amounts, no observable adverse effect level dose amounts, non
effective dose amounts, pharmaceutical compositions, and chiral purities for the methods of
the invention, which are described herein separately for the sake of brevity, can be joined in
any suitable combination.
         [0134]    Unless   otherwise indicated,    all numbers     expressing quantities     of
ingredients, properties such as molecular weight, reaction conditions, and so forth used in the
specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term
"about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth in
the specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the
desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as
an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims,
each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported
significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the
numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are
approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as
precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently contains certain errors
necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing
measurements.
         [0135]    Recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range.
Unless otherwise indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification
as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in
any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by
context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided
                                              -35-

 WO 2015/023786                                                               PCT/US2014/050943
herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on
the scope of the invention otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be
construed as indicating any non-claimed element essential to the practice of the invention.
         [0136]      Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the invention
disclosed herein are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member may be referred
to and claimed individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other
elements found herein. It is anticipated that one or more members of a group may be included
in, or deleted from, a group for reasons of convenience and/or patentability. When any such
inclusion or deletion occurs, the specification is deemed to contain the group as modified thus
fulfilling the written description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.
         [0137]      Certain embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the
best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Of course, variations on
these described embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon
reading the foregoing description. The inventor expects skilled artisans to employ such
variations as appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise
than specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
         [0138]      Specific embodiments disclosed herein may be further limited in the
claims using      "consisting of' or "consisting essentially of'          language, rather than
"comprising". When used in the claims, whether as filed or added per amendment, the
transition term "consisting of' excludes any element, step, or ingredient not specified in the
claims. The transition term "consisting essentially of' limits the scope of a claim to the
specified materials or steps and those that do not materially affect the basic and novel
characteristic(s). Embodiments of the invention so claimed are inherently or expressly
described and enabled herein.
         [0139]      In closing, it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention
disclosed herein are illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Other modifications
that may be employed are within the scope of the invention. Thus, by way of example, but
not of limitation, alternative configurations of the present invention may be utilized in
accordance with the teachings herein. Accordingly, the present invention is not limited to that
precisely as shown and described.
                                                -36-

 WO 2015/023786                                                           PCT/US2014/050943
                                         EXAMPLE 1
        [0140]     Effects of dexpramipexole on minipig eosinophils
        [0141]     In a 39-week repeat-dose toxicology study, minipigs were dosed at 0, 7.5,
25, and 75 mg/kg dexpramipexole by daily oral gavage through Study Day 45 and at 0, 7.5,
25, and 50 mg/kg dexpramipexole from Study Day 46 to study completion. As shown in FIG.
1, dexpramipexole produced both a dose- and time-dependent reduction in eosinophils. The
effects of dexpramipexole treatment on minipig eosinophils was statistically significant at 39
weeks in the 25 mg/kg group and at all time points in the 50/75 mg/kg group. These
differences were not considered adverse from a safety perspective.
                                         EXAMPLE 2
        [0142]     Eosinophil and basophil reductions in a Phase 2 trial in ALS subjects
        [0143]     In a Phase 2 trial in ALS, a dose- and time-dependent decrease in
eosinophil counts was seen among subjects receiving dexpramipexole treatment. The Phase 2
trial was a two-part, double-blind study that evaluated the safety, tolerability, and clinical
effects of dexpramipexole in ALS patients.
        [0144]     In Part 1, subjects were randomized to placebo (n=27), 50 mg/day (n=23),
150 mg/day (n=26), or 300 mg/day dexpramipexole (n=26) for 12 weeks. From baseline to
week 12, mean serum eosinophils increased by 29.2% in the placebo group and declined by
18.2% (p=0.0370), 69.9%, (p<0.0001), and 42.9% (p=0.0008) in the 50 mg, 150 mg, and 300
mg groups, respectively (FIG. 2A).
        [0145]     During a one-month washout following week 12, mean eosinophils at
week 16 recovered to 47% and 73% of baseline levels in the 150 and 300 mg/day groups,
respectively.
        [01461      Following drug washout, subjects in part 2 re-randomized to 150 mg twice
daily had a greater decline in eosinophils from week 16 to week 40 than subjects re
randomized to 25 mg twice daily (78.9% vs 17.6%, p=0.0 11).
                                         EXAMPLE 3
        [0147]     Eosinophil-lowering and basophil-lowering effects of dexpramipexole
in a Phase 3 trial
        [0148]     The phase 3 clinical trial was a double-blind study of dexpramipexole in
ALS patients randomized 1:1 to placebo or dexpramipexole 300 mg daily treatment.
Hematology parameters were collected as part of routine safety monitoring. Eosinophil and
basophil counts were retrospectively analyzed by visit.
                                              -37-

 WO 2015/023786                                                              PCT/US2014/050943
         [0149]      Eosinophil levels were summarized over available time points and
analyzed by ANOVA testing the effect of treatment vs. placebo on mean changes in serum
eosinophil counts from baseline. Subjects with baseline eosinophils from 0 to 0.02x10 9/L
(constituting less than 2% of all subjects analyzed) were censored from the primary analysis
because of the inherent limitation to observe a decline from baseline.
         [0150]      The eosinophil-lowering effect developed slowly, reached plateau at about
month 4, and persisted through month 12 (FIG. 2B). A profound decrease in peripheral blood
eosinophil count was observed after 8-12 weeks of treatment with dexpramipexole that
persisted for the duration of the trial. Statistical analysis of the change from baseline was
performed at month 6 to remove the effect of study dropouts in later months. At this time
point, mean eosinophil counts were 68.4% reduced from baseline (p<0.0001).
         [0151]      The effect of dexpramipexole in reducing eosinophil counts was observed
in most patients, with 77.5% of dexpramipexole-treated subjects experiencing a 50% or
greater decline in eosinophil count after 6 months of treatment.
         [0152]      ALS is not typically associated with a systemic inflammatory response and
accordingly baseline eosinophil counts in the dexpramipexole-treated and placebo groups of
0.129 and 0.127 x 109/L, respectively, were within the reference range. However, the
eosinophil-lowering effect of dexpramipexole was not diminished in subjects (n=42) with
higher eosinophil counts (i.e. >0.25 x 109/L), among whom a 75% decrease was observed
after 6 months of treatment (data not shown).
         [0153]      Changes in basophil counts were also analyzed in the Phase 3 trial. As
shown in FIG. 3A, basophil counts, like eosinophil counts, declined slowly, reached plateau
at about month 4, and remained reduced for the duration of treatment through month 12. At
the six month analysis, mean basophil counts were    4 5 .5 % reduced from baseline (p<0.0001).
                                           EXAMPLE 4
         [0154]      Effects of dexpramipexole on ALS clinical trial subjects with baseline
hypereosinophilia
         [0155]      Baseline parameters were reviewed in Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies of
dexpramipexole in ALS to identify subjects with significantly elevated eosinophil counts
prior to the initiation of dexpramipexole treatment. As shown in FIG. 4A, one Phase 2 subject
with hypereosinophilia at Part 2 baseline showed a decrease in eosinophil counts with
dexpramipexole treatment. The substantial reduction in eosinophils persisted for the period
the subject remained on dexpramipexole through month 12.
                                               -38-

         [0156]      As shown in FIG. 4B, a Phase 3 subject with elevated eosinophil counts at baseline
also showed a decrease in eosinophil counts with dexpramipexole treatment. This subject had the
highest baseline eosinophil count in the dexpramipexole treatment group in the Phase 3 study and
showed a decrease in eosinophil counts on treatment. The substantial reduction in eosinophils persisted
for the period the subject remained on dexpramipexole through month 12.
                                                EXAMPLE 5
         [0157]      Hematological effects of dexpramipexole
         [0158]      Hematological parameters were measured in a Phase 3 study of dexpramipexole in
ALS. Because of the high rate of mortality among ALS patients, including subjects in the Phase 3 trial,
hematology parameters obtained at the month 6 visit were chosen for analysis to remove the effect of
study dropouts in later months. At month 6 in the Phase 3 study, all myeloid and lymphoid cell types
measured showed statistically significant mean reductions from baseline, although the magnitude of
the effect was greatest for eosinophils, which declined 68.4% from baseline, and basophils, which
declined  4 5 .5% from baseline (FIG. 5). Notably among hematology parameters, there was no effect of
dexpramipexole on either red blood cells or platelets compared to the control group.
                                                    EXAMPLE 6
         [0159]      Effects of dexpramipexole on the bone marrow of mice
         [0160]      The study consisted of 3 groups of BALB/cByJ mice (10 mice per group). Mice
received daily gavage treatments of either 30 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg of dexpramipexole or vehicle control
for 70 days. Bone marrow was processed into single cell suspensions and cells were stained with
fluorescent conjugate antibodies to analyze the developmental stages of cells by flow cytometry. A.
Dexpramipexole lowered the number of cell surface marker ScalIc-Kit* cells that are lineage negative,
which in the bone marrow are multipotent hematopoietic stem cells, after treatment with either dose
compared with the vehicle control treatment group. B. Dexpramipexole lowered Siglec-F                  IL5RXhi
positive cells, marking developing B cells, basophils and other cell populations, after treatment with
either dose compared with the vehicle control treatment group. The columns depict the mean for each
group and the error bar indicates the standard error of the mean. The asterisks denote statistical
significance between treatment groups and the vehicle control group by one-way ANOVA (* p 0.05,
**  p 0.01).
         [01611       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art forms part of the common general knowledge
in Australia. Further, the reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art would be understood, ascertained or regarded
as relevant by the skilled person in Australia.

                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.       A method of treating multiple myeloma in a subject comprising administering to the
subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole
is from about 1 mg to about 1,000 mg per day.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole
is from about 50 mg to about 600 mg per day.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole
is from about 150 mg to about 300 mg per day.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein administering is selected from a group consisting of
administering a fraction of the therapeutically effective amount two or more times per day,
administering an amount equal to about half of the therapeutically effective amount twice per
day, and administering the therapeutically effective amount every 12 hours.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein administering comprises administering about 150 mg
two times per day.
7.       The method of claim 1, further comprising an induction step, wherein said induction step
is selected from a group consisting of administering a therapeutic agent selected from the group
consisting of a glucocorticoid, a corticosteroid, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID),
a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a fusion protein, a monoclonal antibody directed against one or more
pro-inflammatory cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent, a phenolic antioxidant, an anti
proliferative drug, an anti IL-5 monoclonal antibody, an IL-5 receptor monoclonal antibody, an
anti IL- 13 monoclonal antibody, an anti IL- 13 receptor monoclonal antibody, an anti IL-4
monoclonal antibody, an anti IL-4 receptor monoclonal antibody, an anti IgE monoclonal
antibody, a TNF-ca inhibitor, a fusion protein, an anti-inflammatory drug, and a combination
thereof.
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the tyrosine kinase inhibitor is imatinib.
                                                  40

9.       The method of claim 7, wherein the anti IL-5 monoclonal antibody is selected from the
group consisting of mepolizumab and reslizumab.
10.      The method of claim 7, wherein the IL-5 receptor monoclonal antibody is benralizumab.
11.      The method of claim 7, wherein the anti IL-13 monoclonal antibody is lebrikizumab.
12.      The method of claim 7, wherein the anti IL-4 receptor monoclonal antibody is
dupilumab.
13.      The method of claim 7, wherein the anti IgE monoclonal antibody is omalizumab.
14.      The method of claim 7, wherein the TNF-a inhibitor is selected from the group consisting
of infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab pegol, and golimumab.
15.      The method of claim 7, wherein the fusion protein is etanercept.
16.      The method of claim 1, wherein administering comprises administering about 75 mg two
times per day.
17.      The method of claim 1, wherein administering comprises administering about 300 mg
two times per day.
18.      The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of dexpramipexole
is administered as an initial dosing regimen and then as a maintenance dosing regimen.
19.      The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the initial
dosing regimen is from about 50 mg to about 1,500 mg per day.
20.      The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the initial
dosing regimen is from about 150 mg to about 300 mg per day.
21.      The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the initial
dosing regimen is from about 300 mg to about 500 mg per day.
22.      The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the initial
dosing regimen is from about 300 mg to about 600 mg per day.
23.      The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the maintenance
dosing regimen is from about 50 mg to about 1,500 mg per day.
                                                41

24.     The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the maintenance
dosing regimen is from about 150 mg to about 300 mg per day.
25.     The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the maintenance
dosing regimen is from about 300 mg to about 500 mg per day.
26.     The method of claim 18, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the maintenance
dosing regimen is from about 300 mg to about 600 mg per day.
27.     The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount is administered
orally.
28.     The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutically effective amount is administered
topically.
                                               42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
