1001861434
  Devices, Methods, and Graphical User Interfaces for Interacting
          with a Control Object While Dragging Another Object
                                             ABSTRACT
An electronic device displays a user interface of a first software application that includes one
or more draggable objects and one or more control objects; and, detects a contact on a touch
sensitive surface at a first location while a focus selector is displayed over a first draggable
object and a movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a second location
that corresponds to a first control object. In accordance with a determination that the contact
at the first location satisfies object selection criteria, the device moves the first draggable
object to the first control object in accordance with the movement of the contact across the
touch-sensitive surface to the first control object. In accordance with a determination that the
contact at the second location satisfies first intensity criteria, the device performs a first
predetermined operation that corresponds to activation of the first control object.

1001861434
  Devices, Methods, and Graphical User Interfaces for Interacting
         with a Control Object While Dragging Another Object
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]          This relates generally to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces,
including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces that perform
various display operations in conjunction with receiving and/or generating tactile
information.
[0001a]         Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2016/019913
(published as WO 2016/144577), filed on 26 February 2016.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002]          The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touchpads and touch-screen displays. Such surfaces are widely
used to perform display operations on a user interface of a display.
[0003]          Exemplary display operations include adjusting the position of one or more
user interface objects, activating buttons or opening files/applications represented by user
interface objects, as well as changing the view of one or more portions of a user interface.
Exemplary user interface objects include files, folders, calendar entries, icons, and control
elements such as buttons and other graphics. A user will, in some circumstances, need to
perform display operations involving user interface objects in a file management program
(e.g., Finder from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a calendaring program (e.g., iCal
from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), an image management application (e.g., Aperture,
iPhoto, or Photos from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a digital content (e.g., videos and
music) management application (e.g., iTunes from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), a
drawing application, a presentation application (e.g., Keynote from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California), a word processing application (e.g., Pages from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California), or a spreadsheet application (e.g., Numbers from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California).
[0004]          But existing methods for performing these display operations are cumbersome
and inefficient, and can take multiple steps. For example, if a user wishes to change a view
                                                 1

1001861434
while dragging one or more user interface objects, the user needs to release the one or more
user interface objects and change a view of a portion of a user interface, and then pick up the
one or more user interface objects again to move the one or more user interface objects to the
changed view. This sequence of steps is complex and takes additional time.
[0004a]         Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably
be expected to be understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
                                          SUMMARY
[0005]          Accordingly, there is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient
methods and interfaces for performing various display operations. Such methods and
interfaces optionally complement or replace conventional methods for performing various
display operations. In addition, when tactile outputs are used to provide feedback to users,
there is a need for methods and interfaces for adjusting tactile outputs. Such methods and
interfaces optionally complement or replace conventional methods for providing tactile
outputs. Such methods and interfaces reduce the number, extent, and/or nature of the inputs
from a user and produce a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated
devices, such methods and interfaces conserve power and increase the time between battery
charges.
[0006]          The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces for
electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed
devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some embodiments, the
device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or handheld device). In some
embodiments, the device is a personal electronic device (e.g., a wearable electronic device,
such as a watch). In some embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments,
the device has a touch-sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch-screen
display"). In some embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or more
processors, memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored in the
memory for performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts with the
GUI primarily through stylus and/or finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive
                                                 2

1001861434
surface. In some embodiments, the functions optionally include image editing, drawing,
presenting, word processing, spreadsheet making, game playing, telephoning, video
conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital photographing, digital
videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, note taking, and/or digital video playing.
Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in a non
transitory computer readable storage medium or other computer program product configured
for execution by one or more processors.
[0006a]         In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method, comprising: at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive surface and a display,
wherein the electronic device includes one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface: displaying, on the display, a user interface of a first software
application; and, while displaying the user interface of the first software application:
detecting a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein
the contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region of the user
interface of the first software application that is associated with at least a first operation; in
response to detecting the first input: in accordance with a determination that a first tactile
output setting is active for the first input, performing the first operation without generating a
tactile output; and, in accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting is
active for the first input, forgoing performing the first operation; and detecting a second input
that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included
in the second input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first
software application that is associated with at least the first operation and the second input is
different from the first input; and, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance
with a determination that the second tactile output setting is active for the second input,
performing the first operation in conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated
with the first operation.
[0006b]         In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided
an electronic device, comprising: a display; a touch-sensitive surface; one or more sensors to
detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface; one or more processors; memory;
and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including
instructions for: displaying, on the display, a user interface of a first software application; and
                                                   2a

1001861434
while displaying the user interface of the first software application: detecting a first input that
includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the
first input is associated with a respective region of the user interface of the first software
application that is associated with at least a first operation; and, in response to detecting the
first input: in accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is active for
the first input, performing the first operation without generating a tactile output; and, in
accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting is active for the first
input, forgoing performing the first operation; detecting a second input that includes a contact
detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the second input is
associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software application that
is associated with at least the first operation and the second input is different from the first
input; and, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a determination that
the second tactile output setting is active for the second input, performing the first operation
in conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated with the first operation.
[0006c]          In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs
comprising instructions, which, when executed by an electronic device with a display, a
touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to: display, on the display, a user interface of a first
software application; and, while displaying the user interface of the first software application:
detect a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the
contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region of the user interface
of the first software application that is associated with at least a first operation; in response to
detecting the first input: in accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is
active for the first input, perform the first operation without generating a tactile output; and,
in accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting is active for the first
input, forgo performing the first operation; detect a second input that includes a contact
detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the second input is
associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software application that
is associated with at least the first operation and the second input is different from the first
input; and, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a determination that
the second tactile output setting is active for the second input, perform the first operation in
conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated with the first operation.
                                                  2b

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[0007]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying, on the display, a
user interface of a first software application that includes one or more draggable objects and
one or more control objects distinct from the one or more draggable objects; and, while
displaying the user interface of the first software application: detecting a contact on the
touch-sensitive surface at a first location while a focus selector is displayed over a first
draggable object of the one or more draggable objects displayed on the display; after
detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the first location, detecting a movement
of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a second location that corresponds to a
first control object of the one or more control objects displayed on the display; and, in
response to detecting movement of the contact from the first location to the second location,
in accordance with a determination that the contact at the first location satisfies object
selection criteria: moving the first draggable object to the first control object in accordance
with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to the first control object;
and, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the second location satisfies first
intensity criteria, performing a first predetermined operation that corresponds to activation of
the first control object.
[0008]           In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying, on the display, a
user interface of a first software application; and, while displaying the user interface of the
first software application, detecting a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch
sensitive surface. The contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region
of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with a first operation
and a second operation. The method also includes, in response to detecting the first input: in
accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is active for the first input,
performing the first operation without generating a tactile output; and, in accordance with a
determination that a second tactile output setting is active for the first input, forgoing
performing the first operation. The method further includes detecting a second input that
includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface. The contact included in the second
input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software
application that is associated with the first operation and the second operation and the second
                                                    3

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
input is different from the first input. The method includes, in response to detecting the
second input: in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is
active for the second input, performing the first operation in conjunction with generating a
first tactile output associated with the first operation; and, in accordance with a determination
that the first tactile output setting is active for the second input, performing the second
operation.
[0009]            In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. The method includes: displaying, on the display, a
user interface that includes: a first region that is configured to initiate a first display operation
in response to an input that satisfies first activation criteria and initiate a second display
operation in response to an input that satisfies second activation criteria distinct from the first
activation criteria; and, a second region that is distinct from the first region and is configured
to initiate a third display operation in response to an input that satisfies the first activation
criteria and the second region is not configured to initiate any display operation in response to
an input that satisfies the second activation criteria. The method also includes, while
displaying the user interface, detecting a first input that includes a contact detected on the
touch-sensitive surface. The contact included in the first input is associated with the first
region of the user interface. The method further includes, in response to detecting the first
input: in accordance with a determination that the first input satisfies the first activation
criteria, performing the first display operation; and, in accordance with a determination that
the first input satisfies the second activation criteria, performing the second display operation
and concurrently generating a tactile output of a first type while performing the second
display operation. The method includes detecting a second input that includes a contact
detected on the touch-sensitive surface. The second input is distinct from the first input and
the contact included in the second input is associated with the second region of the user
interface. The method also includes, in response to detecting the second input: in accordance
with a determination that the second input satisfies the first activation criteria, performing the
third display operation; and, in accordance with a determination that the second input satisfies
the second activation criteria, generating a tactile output of a second type.
[0010]            In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, one or more sensors to detect intensity of
                                                      4

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, and one or more tactile output generators. The
device is configured to provide a first tactile output in response to detecting that first
activation criteria have been met, the first activation criteria including a criterion that is met
when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases above a first intensity
threshold. The device is configured to provide a second tactile output in response to detecting
that second activation criteria have been met, the second activation criteria including a
criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases
above a second intensity threshold, distinct from the first intensity threshold. The method
includes displaying, on the display, a settings user interface that includes one or more control
objects. The settings user interface is configured to adjust operations of the device that use:
the one or more sensors that detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface,
and/or the one or more tactile output generators. The method also includes, while displaying
the settings user interface, detecting an input for a first control object of the one or more
control objects; and, in accordance with the detected input for the first control object:
changing the second intensity threshold and changing the second tactile output.
[0011]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a user
interface of a first software application that includes one or more draggable objects and one
or more control objects distinct from the one or more draggable objects; and, while enabling
display of the user interface of the first software application: detect a contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit at a first location while a focus selector is displayed over a first
draggable object of the one or more draggable objects displayed on the display unit; after
detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the first location, detect a movement of
the contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit to a second location that corresponds to a
first control object of the one or more control objects displayed on the display unit; and, in
response to detecting movement of the contact from the first location to the second location,
in accordance with a determination that the contact at the first location satisfies object
selection criteria: move the first draggable object to the first control object in accordance with
the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit to the first control object;
and, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the second location satisfies first
                                                    5

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
intensity criteria, perform a first predetermined operation that corresponds to activation of the
first control object.
[0012]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the touch-sensitive surface unit, and the
one or more sensor units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a user
interface of a first software application; and, while enabling display of the user interface of
the first software application: detect a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch
sensitive surface unit, wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with a
respective region of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with
a first operation and a second operation; in response to detecting the first input: in accordance
with a determination that a first tactile output setting is active for the first input, perform the
first operation without generating a tactile output; and in accordance with a determination
that a second tactile output setting is active for the first input, forgo performing the first
operation. The processing unit is also configured to: detect a second input that includes a
contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface unit, wherein the contact included in the
second input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software
application that is associated with the first operation and the second operation and the second
input is different from the first input; and, in response to detecting the second input: in
accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is active for the second
input, perform the first operation in conjunction with generating a first tactile output
associated with the first operation; and, in accordance with a determination that the first
tactile output setting is active for the second input, perform the second operation.
[0013]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit;
one or more tactile output units; and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the
touch-sensitive surface unit, the one or more sensor units, and the one or more tactile output
units. The processing unit is configured to: enable display of a user interface that includes: a
first region that is configured to initiate a first display operation in response to an input that
satisfies first activation criteria and initiate a second display operation in response to an input
                                                      6

  WO 2016/144577                                                                PCT/US2016/019913
that satisfies second activation criteria distinct from the first activation criteria; and a second
region that is distinct from the first region, wherein the second region is configured to initiate
a third display operation in response to an input that satisfies the first activation criteria and
the second region is not configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input
that satisfies the second activation criteria; and, while enabling display of the user interface:
detect a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface unit,
wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with the first region of the user
interface; and, in response to detecting the first input: in accordance with a determination that
the first input satisfies the first activation criteria, perform the first display operation; and, in
accordance with a determination that the first input satisfies the second activation criteria,
perform the second display operation and concurrently generate a tactile output of a first type
while performing the second display operation; detect a second input that includes a contact
detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the second input is distinct from the first
input and the contact included in the second input is associated with the second region of the
user interface; and, in response to detecting the second input: in accordance with a
determination that the second input satisfies the first activation criteria, perform the third
display operation; and, in accordance with a determination that the second input satisfies the
second activation criteria, generate a tactile output of a second type.
[0014]           In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a display
unit configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit to receive contacts,
one or more sensor units to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface unit,
one or more tactile output generators, and a processing unit coupled with the display unit, the
touch-sensitive surface unit, the one or more sensor units, and the one or more tactile output
units. The one or more tactile output units are configured to: provide a first tactile output in
response to detecting that first activation criteria have been met, the first activation criteria
including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface
unit increases above a first intensity threshold; and provide a second tactile output in response
to detecting that second activation criteria have been met, the second activation criteria
including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface
unit increases above a second intensity threshold, distinct from the first intensity threshold.
The processing unit is configured to: enable display, of a settings user interface that includes
one or more control objects, wherein the settings user interface is configured to adjust
operations of the device that use: the one or more sensors that detect intensity of contacts
                                                       7

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
with the touch-sensitive surface unit, and/or the one or more tactile output generators. The
processing unit is also configured to, while enabling display of the settings user interface,
detect an input for a first control object of the one or more control objects; and, in accordance
with the detected input for the first control object: change the second intensity threshold; and
change the second tactile output.
[0015]          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of
contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, one or more processors, memory, and one or more
programs; the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed
by the one or more processors and the one or more programs include instructions for
performing or causing performance of the operations of any of the methods described herein.
In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable storage medium has stored
therein instructions which when executed by an electronic device with a display, a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to perform or cause performance of the operations
of any of the methods described herein. In accordance with some embodiments, a graphical
user interface on an electronic device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, optionally one
or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, a memory,
and one or more processors to execute one or more programs stored in the memory includes
one or more of the elements displayed in any of the methods described herein, which are
updated in response to inputs, as described in any of the methods described herein. In
accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes: a display, a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface; and means for performing or causing performance of the operations
of any of the methods described herein. In accordance with some embodiments, an
information processing apparatus, for use in an electronic device with a display and a touch
sensitive surface, and optionally one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the
touch-sensitive surface, includes means for performing or causing performance of the
operations of any of the methods described herein.
[0016]          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces and optionally
one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface are
provided with faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for performing various display
                                                    8

  WO 2016/144577                                                          PCT/US2016/019913
operations in conjunction with receiving and/or generating tactile information, thereby
increasing the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such
methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for performing
various display operations in conjunction with receiving and/or generating tactile
information.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]          For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference
should be made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the following
drawings in which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the
figures.
[0018]          Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device with
a touch-sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0019]          Figure 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
[0020]          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0021]          Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[0022]          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[0023]          Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0024]          Figures 4C-4E illustrate exemplary dynamic intensity thresholds in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0025]          Figures 5A-5NN illustrate exemplary user interfaces for processing touch
inputs in accordance with some embodiments.
[0026]          Figures 500-5QQ are exemplary intensity diagrams in accordance with some
embodiments.
                                                   9

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[0027]          Figures 6A-6E are flow diagrams illustrating a method of enabling interaction
with one or more control objects in a user interface, in accordance with some embodiments.
[0028]          Figures 7A-7D are flow diagrams illustrating a method of performing
operations in conjunction with generating tactile outputs, in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0029]          Figures 8A-8F are flow diagrams illustrating a method of providing tactile
outputs based on one or more regions of a user interface in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0030]          Figures 9A-9C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of performing
operations in conjunction with configuring tactile outputs in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0031]          Figures 10-13 are functional block diagrams of electronic devices in
accordance with some embodiments.
                               DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0032]          Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces with draggable user
interface objects (e.g., files, folders, calendar entries, and icons) and control user interface
objects (e.g., buttons, switches, sliders, and other controls). When a user selects a calendar
entry for today in a month view and moves it to a different date and time, the user may need
to drag the calendar entry to the different date and drop the calendar entry, switch to a day
view, and then drag the calendar entry again and drop it on a new time. Alternatively, the user
may open the calendar entry and manually type in the new date and time. In the embodiments
described below, an improved method for performing operations (e.g., moving a calendar
entry) is achieved by displaying a user interface that includes a draggable object (e.g., a
calendar entry) and control objects (e.g., view buttons). While the draggable object is being
dragged, one of the control objects is activated to change the view (e.g., from the month view
to the day view), and the draggable object is dropped into a user-specified location (e.g., a
user-specified time slot). This method allows for interaction with control objects while
dragging a draggable object, thereby eliminating the need for extra, separate steps for
interacting with control objects. This method, which uses a single contact to both drag an
object and interact with a control object, is optionally be used in other applications as well.
                                                    10

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[0033]           Below, Figures 1A-1B, 2, and 3 provide a description of exemplary devices.
Figures 4A-4B, and 5A-5NN, illustrate exemplary user interfaces for processing touch inputs.
Figures 500-5QQ are exemplary intensity diagrams. Figures 6A-6E illustrate a flow
diagram of a method of enabling interaction with one or more control objects in a user
interface. Figures 7A-7D illustrate a flow diagram of a method of performing operations in
conjunction with generating tactile outputs. Figures 8A-8F illustrate a flow diagram of a
method of providing tactile outputs based on one or more regions of a user interface. Figures
9A-9C illustrate a flow diagram of a method of configuring tactile outputs and activation
criteria. The user interfaces in Figures 5A-5NN and the intensity diagrams in Figures 500
5QQ are used to illustrate the processes in Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7D, 8A-8F, and 9A-9C.
                                     EXEMPLARY DEVICES
[0034]           Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various
described embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that
the various described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other
instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks have not
been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
[0035]           It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. are, in
some instances, used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be
limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.
For example, a first contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second
contact could be termed a first contact, without departing from the scope of the various
described embodiments. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but they
are not the same contact, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
[0036]           The terminology used in the description of the various described embodiments
herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be
limiting. As used in the description of the various described embodiments and the appended
claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as
well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term
"and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one
or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms "includes,"
                                                    11

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
"including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the
presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do
not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[0037]          As used herein, the term "if' is, optionally, construed to mean "when" or
"upon" or "in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the
context. Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is
detected" is, optionally, construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to
determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition or event]" or "in response to detecting
[the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[0038]          Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device
is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other
functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of portable
multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone®, iPod Touch®, and iPad®
devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic devices, such as
laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch-screen displays and/or
touchpads), are, optionally, used. It should also be understood that, in some embodiments, the
device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer with a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-screen display and/or a touchpad).
[0039]          In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and
a touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic
device optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a
physical keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[0040]          The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of
the following: a note taking application, a drawing application, a presentation application, a
word processing application, a website creation application, a disk authoring application, a
spreadsheet application, a gaming application, a telephone application, a video conferencing
application, an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a workout support
application, a photo management application, a digital camera application, a digital video
camera application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and/or a
digital video player application.
                                                  12

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[0041]           The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at least
one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or more
functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a
respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch
sensitive surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of applications with user
interfaces that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
[0042]          Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device
 100 with touch-sensitive display system 112 in accordance with some embodiments. Touch
sensitive display system 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is
sometimes simply called a touch-sensitive display. Device 100 includes memory 102 (which
optionally includes one or more computer readable storage mediums), memory controller
 122, one or more processing units (CPUs) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF circuitry 108,
audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone 113, input/output (1/0) subsystem 106, other
input or control devices 116, and external port 124. Device 100 optionally includes one or
more optical sensors 164. Device 100 optionally includes one or more intensity sensors 165
for detecting intensity of contacts on device 100 (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface such as
touch-sensitive display system 112 of device 100). Device 100 optionally includes one or
more tactile output generators 167 for generating tactile outputs on device 100 (e.g.,
generating tactile outputs on a touch-sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system
 112 of device 100 or touchpad 355 of device 300). These components optionally
communicate over one or more communication buses or signal lines 103.
[0043]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to
physical displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical
displacement of a component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to another
component (e.g., housing) of the device, or displacement of the component relative to a
center of mass of the device that will be detected by a user with the user's sense of touch. For
example, in situations where the device or the component of the device is in contact with a
surface of a user that is sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other part of a user's hand),
the tactile output generated by the physical displacement will be interpreted by the user as a
tactile sensation corresponding to a perceived change in physical characteristics of the device
                                                    13

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
or the component of the device. For example, movement of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a
touch-sensitive display or trackpad) is, optionally, interpreted by the user as a "down click"
or "up click" of a physical actuator button. In some cases, a user will feel a tactile sensation
such as an "down click" or "up click" even when there is no movement of a physical actuator
button associated with the touch-sensitive surface that is physically pressed (e.g., displaced)
by the user's movements. As another example, movement of the touch-sensitive surface is,
optionally, interpreted or sensed by the user as "roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface,
even when there is no change in smoothness of the touch-sensitive surface. While such
interpretations of touch by a user will be subject to the individualized sensory perceptions of
the user, there are many sensory perceptions of touch that are common to a large majority of
users. Thus, when a tactile output is described as corresponding to a particular sensory
perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down click," "roughness"), unless otherwise
stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to physical displacement of the device or a
component thereof that will generate the described sensory perception for a typical (or
average) user.
[0044]          It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than
shown, optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different
configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in Figure
 1A are implemented in hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof, including one
or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated circuits.
[0045]          Memory 102 optionally includes high-speed random access memory and
optionally also includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to
memory 102 by other components of device 100, such as CPU(s) 120 and the peripherals
interface 118, is, optionally, controlled by memory controller 122.
[0046]          Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of
the device to CPU(s) 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
                                                  14

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
[0047]          In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU(s) 120, and memory
controller 122 are, optionally, implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some other
embodiments, they are, optionally, implemented on separate chips.
[0048]          RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices
via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known circuitry for
performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver,
one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC
chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108
optionally communicates with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World
Wide Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone
network, a wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN),
and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication optionally uses
any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not
limited to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM
Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink
packet access (HSUPA), Evolution, Data-Only (EV-DO), HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA
(DC-HSPDA), long term evolution (LTE), near field communication (NFC), wideband code
division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division
multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11a, IEEE
802.11 ac, IEEE 802.11 ax, IEEE 802.11 b, IEEE 802.11 g and/or IEEE 802.11 n), voice over
Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for e-mail (e.g., Internet message access
protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol (POP)), instant messaging (e.g., extensible
messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging
and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and Presence Service
impsS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS), or any other suitable communication
protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this
document.
[0049]          Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
                                                 15

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible
sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone
 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and
transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data is, optionally,
retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals
interface 118. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g.,
212, Figure 2). The headset jack provides an interface between audio circuitry 110 and
removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a headset with
both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a microphone).
[0050]          I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch-sensitive display system 112 and other input or control devices 116, with peripherals
interface 118. I/O subsystem 106 optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor
controller 158, intensity sensor controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161, and one or
more input controllers 160 for other input or control devices. The one or more input
controllers 160 receive/send electrical signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The
other input or control devices 116 optionally include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons,
rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some
alternate embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally, coupled with any (or none) of
the following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, stylus, and/or a pointer device such as a
mouse. The one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) optionally include an up/down button
for volume control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons
optionally include a push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2).
[0051]           Touch-sensitive display system 112 provides an input interface and an output
interface between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends
electrical signals from/to touch-sensitive display system 112. Touch-sensitive display system
 112 displays visual output to the user. The visual output optionally includes graphics, text,
icons, video, and any combination thereof (collectively termed "graphics"). In some
embodiments, some or all of the visual output corresponds to user-interface objects. As used
herein, the term "affordance" refers to a user-interactive graphical user interface object (e.g.,
a graphical user interface object that is configured to respond to inputs directed toward the
graphical user interface object). Examples of user-interactive graphical user interface objects
                                                    16

  WO 2016/144577                                                          PCT/US2016/019913
include, without limitation, a button, slider, icon, selectable menu item, switch, hyperlink, or
other user interface control.
[0052]          Touch-sensitive display system 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set
of sensors that accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch
sensitive display system 112 and display controller 156 (along with any associated modules
and/or sets of instructions in memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of
the contact) on touch-sensitive display system 112 and converts the detected contact into
interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or more soft keys, icons, web pages or
images) that are displayed on touch-sensitive display system 112. In an exemplary
embodiment, a point of contact between touch-sensitive display system 112 and the user
corresponds to a finger of the user or a stylus.
[0053]          Touch-sensitive display system 112 optionally uses LCD (liquid crystal
display) technology, LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting
diode) technology, although other display technologies are used in other embodiments.
Touch-sensitive display system 112 and display controller 156 optionally detect contact and
any movement or breaking thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now
known or later developed, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and
surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other
elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch-sensitive display system
 112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected mutual capacitance sensing technology is used,
such as that found in the iPhone®, iPod Touch®, and iPad® from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California.
[0054]          Touch-sensitive display system 112 optionally has a video resolution in excess
of 100 dpi. In some embodiments, the touch screen video resolution is in excess of 400 dpi
(e.g., 500 dpi, 800 dpi, or greater). The user optionally makes contact with touch-sensitive
display system 112 using any suitable object or appendage, such as a stylus, a finger, and so
forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to work with finger-based contacts
and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus-based input due to the larger area of
contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some embodiments, the device translates the rough
finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor position or command for performing the
actions desired by the user.
                                                   17

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
[0055]           In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 optionally
includes a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some
embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad is, optionally, a touch-sensitive surface
that is separate from touch-sensitive display system 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive
surface formed by the touch screen.
[0056]           Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components. Power system 162 optionally includes a power management system, one or
more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light
emitting diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation,
management and distribution of power in portable devices.
[0057]           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more optical sensors 164. Figure
 1A shows an optical sensor coupled with optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem 106.
Optical sensor(s) 164 optionally include charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary
metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor(s) 164 receive light
from the environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the light to data
representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a camera
module), optical sensor(s) 164 optionally capture still images and/or video. In some
embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-sensitive
display system 112 on the front of the device, so that the touch screen is enabled for use as a
viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, another optical
sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image is obtained (e.g., for
selfies, for videoconferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on
the touch screen, etc.).
[0058]           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165.
Figure 1A shows a contact intensity sensor coupled with intensity sensor controller 159 in I/O
subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor(s) 165 optionally include one or more piezoresistive
strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric force sensors,
optical force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity sensors (e.g.,
sensors used to measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch-sensitive surface).
Contact intensity sensor(s) 165 receive contact intensity information (e.g., pressure
                                                   18

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
information or a proxy for pressure information) from the environment. In some
embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate to, a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112). In some embodiments, at
least one contact intensity sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-screen
display system 112 which is located on the front of device 100.
[0059]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more proximity sensors 166.
Figure 1A shows proximity sensor 166 coupled with peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 is coupled with input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables touch-sensitive display system 112
when the multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a
phone call).
[0060]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators 167.
Figure 1A shows a tactile output generator coupled with haptic feedback controller 161 in I/O
subsystem 106. Tactile output generator(s) 167 optionally include one or more
electroacoustic devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or electromechanical
devices that convert energy into linear motion such as a motor, solenoid, electroactive
polymer, piezoelectric actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other tactile output generating
component (e.g., a component that converts electrical signals into tactile outputs on the
device). Tactile output generator(s) 167 receive tactile feedback generation instructions from
haptic feedback module 133 and generates tactile outputs on device 100 that are capable of
being sensed by a user of device 100. In some embodiments, at least one tactile output
generator is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive
display system 112) and, optionally, generates a tactile output by moving the touch-sensitive
surface vertically (e.g., in/out of a surface of device 100) or laterally (e.g., back and forth in
the same plane as a surface of device 100). In some embodiments, at least one tactile output
generator sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch-sensitive display system
 112, which is located on the front of device 100.
[0061]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more accelerometers 168. Figure
 1A shows accelerometer 168 coupled with peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
accelerometer 168 is, optionally, coupled with an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106.
In some embodiments, information is displayed on the touch-screen display in a portrait view
or a landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more
                                                   19

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
accelerometers. Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a
magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system)
receiver (not shown) for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation (e.g.,
portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0062]           In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, haptic
feedback module (or set of instructions) 133, text input module (or set of instructions) 134,
Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of instructions) 135, and applications (or
sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some embodiments, memory 102 stores
device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A and 3. Device/global internal state
 157 includes one or more of. active application state, indicating which applications, if any,
are currently active; display state, indicating what applications, views or other information
occupy various regions of touch-sensitive display system 112; sensor state, including
information obtained from the device's various sensors and other input or control devices
 116; and location and/or positional information concerning the device's location and/or
attitude.
[0063]           Operating system 126 (e.g., iOS, Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication
between various hardware and software components.
[0064]           Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices
over one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g.,
Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other
devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or
similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used in some iPhone®, iPod Touch®,
and iPad® devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. In some embodiments, the
external port is a Lightning connector that is the same as, or similar to and/or compatible with
                                                  20

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
the Lightning connector used in some iPhone®, iPod Touch®, and iPad® devices from
Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
[0065]          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch-sensitive
display system 112 (in conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch-sensitive
devices (e.g., a touchpad or physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes
various software components for performing various operations related to detection of
contact (e.g., by a finger or by a stylus), such as determining if contact has occurred (e.g.,
detecting a finger-down event), determining an intensity of the contact (e.g., the force or
pressure of the contact or a substitute for the force or pressure of the contact), determining if
there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger-dragging events), and determining if the contact
has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a break in contact). Contact/motion module
 130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive surface. Determining movement of the
point of contact, which is represented by a series of contact data, optionally includes
determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and direction), and/or an acceleration (a
change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of contact. These operations are,
optionally, applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts or stylus contacts) or to
multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some
embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact on a
touchpad.
[0066]          Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user.
Different gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns (e.g.,
different motions, timings, and/or intensities of detected contacts). Thus, a gesture is,
optionally, detected by detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a finger
tap gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off)
event at the same position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event (e.g.,
at the position of an icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the touch
sensitive surface includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or more
finger-dragging events, and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off) event.
Similarly, tap, swipe, drag, and other gestures are optionally detected for a stylus by detecting
a particular contact pattern for the stylus.
                                                   21

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
[0067]           Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch-sensitive display system 112 or other display,
including components for changing the visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency,
saturation, contrast or other visual property) of graphics that are displayed. As used herein,
the term "graphics" includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without
limitation text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital
images, videos, animations and the like.
[0068]          In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics
to be used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module 132
receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along
with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen
image data to output to display controller 156.
[0069]          Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for
generating instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at
one or more locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0070]           Text input module 134, which is, optionally, a component of graphics module
 132, provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137,
e-mail 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[0071]           GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based
dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location
based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation
widgets).
[0072]          Applications 136 optionally include the following modules (or sets of
instructions), or a subset or superset thereof:
*        contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
*       telephone module 138;
*       video conferencing module 139;
.        e-mail client module 140;
.       instant messaging (IM) module 141;
                                                  22

  WO 2016/144577                                                         PCT/US2016/019913
*       workout support module 142;
*       camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
*       image management module 144;
*       browser module 147;
*       calendar module 148;
*       widget modules 149, which optionally include one or more of: weather widget 149-1,
        stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary
        widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets
         149-6;
*       widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
*       search module 151;
*       video and music player module 152, which is, optionally, made up of a video player
        module and a music player module;
.       notes module 153;
*       map module 154; and/or
.       online video module 155.
[0073]          Examples of other applications 136 that are, optionally, stored in memory 102
include other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing
applications, presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights
management, voice recognition, and voice replication.
[0074]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137
includes executable instructions to manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in
application internal state 192 of contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370),
including: adding name(s) to the address book; deleting name(s) from the address book;
associating telephone number(s), e-mail address(es), physical address(es) or other
information with a name; associating an image with a name; categorizing and sorting names;
providing telephone numbers and/or e-mail addresses to initiate and/or facilitate
                                                 23

  WO 2016/144577                                                          PCT/US2016/019913
communications by telephone 138, video conference 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so
forth.
[0075]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 includes
executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone
number, access one or more telephone numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone
number that has been entered, dial a respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and
disconnect or hang up when the conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless
communication optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and
technologies.
[0076]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s)
 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input
module 134, contact list 137, and telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139
includes executable instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference
between a user and one or more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[0077]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
e-mail client module 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and
manage e-mail in response to user instructions. In conjunction with image management
module 144, e-mail client module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still
or video images taken with camera module 143.
[0078]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
the instant messaging module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of
characters corresponding to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to
transmit a respective instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or
Multimedia Message Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using
XMPP, SIMPLE, Apple Push Notification Service (APNs) or IMPS for Internet-based instant
messages), to receive instant messages and to view received instant messages. In some
embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages optionally include graphics,
                                                  24

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
photos, audio files, video files and/or other attachments as are supported in a MMS and/or an
Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging" refers to both
telephony-based messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Internet-based
messages (e.g., messages sent using XMIPP, SIMPLE, APNs, or IMPS).
[0079]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134,
GPS module 135, map module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module
 142 includes executable instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or
calorie burning goals); communicate with workout sensors (in sports devices and smart
watches); receive workout sensor data; calibrate sensors used to monitor a workout; select
and play music for a workout; and display, store and transmit workout data.
[0080]           In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
optical sensor(s) 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module
 132, and image management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable
instructions to capture still images or video (including a video stream) and store them into
memory 102, modify characteristics of a still image or video, and/or delete a still image or
video from memory 102.
[0081]           In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143,
image management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g.,
edit), or otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album),
and store still and/or video images.
[0082]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input
module 134, browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in
accordance with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying
web pages or portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[0083]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes
executable instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated
with calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
                                                   25

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
[0084]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, and browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that are, optionally,
downloaded and used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator
widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user
(e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some embodiments, a widget includes an HTML
(Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file.
In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible Markup Language) file and a
JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[0085]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, and browser module 147, the widget creator module 150 includes executable
instructions to create widgets (e.g., turning a user-specified portion of a web page into a
widget).
[0086]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search
module 151 includes executable instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video,
and/or other files in memory 102 that match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more
user-specified search terms) in accordance with user instructions.
[0087]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
RF circuitry 108, and browser module 147, video and music player module 152 includes
executable instructions that allow the user to download and play back recorded music and
other sound files stored in one or more file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and
executable instructions to display, present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on touch
sensitive display system 112, or on an external display connected wirelessly or via external
port 124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally includes the functionality of an MP3
player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[0088]          In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153
includes executable instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in
accordance with user instructions.
                                                  26

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[0089]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch-sensitive display system 112,
display system controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module
 134, GPS module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 includes executable
instructions to receive, display, modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g.,
driving directions; data on stores and other points of interest at or near a particular location;
and other location-based data) in accordance with user instructions.
[0090]           In conjunction with touch-sensitive display system 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
RF circuitry 108, text input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147,
online video module 155 includes executable instructions that allow the user to access,
browse, receive (e.g., by streaming and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen
 112, or on an external display connected wirelessly or via external port 124), send an e-mail
with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise manage online videos in one or more
file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments, instant messaging module 141, rather than
e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to a particular online video.
[0091]           Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus
various subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in
various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 optionally stores a subset of the
modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 optionally stores
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[0092]           In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined
set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a
touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for
operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons,
dials, and the like) on device 100 is, optionally, reduced.
[0093]           The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a touch
screen and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In some
embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home,
                                                   27

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
or root menu from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such embodiments, a
"menu button" is implemented using a touchpad. In some other embodiments, the menu
button is a physical push button or other physical input control device instead of a touchpad.
[0094]          Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures 1A) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126) and a
respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 136, 137-155, 380
390).
[0095]          Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174.
In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which
indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch-sensitive display system 112
when the application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal
state 157 is used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is (are) currently
active, and application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine application
views 191 to which to deliver event information.
[0096]          In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1
resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being displayed
or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the user to go
back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of previous actions
taken by the user.
[0097]          Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118.
Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display system 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118
transmits information it receives from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity
sensor 166, accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110).
Information that peripherals interface 118 receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes
information from touch-sensitive display system 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
[0098]          In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
                                                  28

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
event information. In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
[0099]          In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination
module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00100]         Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display system 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and
other elements that a user can see on the display.
[00101]         Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected optionally correspond to programmatic
levels within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest
level view in which a touch is detected is, optionally, called the hit view, and the set of events
that are recognized as proper inputs are, optionally, determined based, at least in part, on the
hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.
[00102]         Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub-events
of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a hierarchy,
hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the hierarchy
which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the lowest level
view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the sequence of sub
events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified by the hit view
determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related to the same touch
or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[00103]         Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the hit
view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active event
recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the physical
location of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that all actively
involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments,
                                                  29

  WO 2016/144577                                                         PCT/US2016/019913
even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with one particular
view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved views.
[00104]         Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to an
event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In some
embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event information,
which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[00105]         In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event
sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such
as contact/motion module 130.
[00106]         In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers
 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for handling
touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface. Each
application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers 180.
Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers 180. In
other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate module, such
as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which application 13 6-1
inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective event handler 190
includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event
data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event handler 190 optionally utilizes or calls data
updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state
 192. Alternatively, one or more of the application views 191 includes one or more respective
event handlers 190. Also, in some embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object
updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a respective application view 191.
[00107]         A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data
 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information. Event
recognizer 180 includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some embodiments,
event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and event delivery
instructions 188 (which optionally include sub-event delivery instructions).
                                                  30

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00108]          Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement. Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch, the event information optionally also includes speed and direction of the sub-event. In
some embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to another
(e.g., from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event
information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also called
device attitude) of the device.
[00109]          Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of
events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2 (187
2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for example, touch
begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching. In one
example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double
tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch
(touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a second lift-off (touch
end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a
dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example, comprises a touch (or contact) on
the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a movement of the touch across touch
sensitive display system 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch end). In some embodiments, the
event also includes information for one or more associated event handlers 190.
[00110]          In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs
a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event. For
example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on touch
sensitive display system 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display system 112,
event comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface
objects is associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with a
                                                  31

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
respective event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to determine
which event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator 184 selects an
event handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit test.
[00111]         In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been determined
whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event recognizer's
event type.
[00112]         When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.
[00113]         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
how event recognizers interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
whether sub-events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[00114]         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are
recognized. In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190
is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and
event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined process.
[00115]         In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event
                                                  32

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the
event information and perform a predetermined process.
[00116]          In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1. For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in
contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145. In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1. For
example, object updater 176 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a
user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178
prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch
sensitive display.
[00117]          In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater
 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a respective
application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are included in two or
more software modules.
[00118]          It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling
of user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on touch
screens. For example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally coordinated
with single or multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as taps, drags,
scrolls, etc., on touch-pads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral instructions;
detected eye movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof are optionally
utilized as inputs corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00119]          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
(e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112, Figure 1A) in accordance with some embodiments.
The touch screen optionally displays one or more graphics within user interface (UI) 200. In
this embodiment, as well as others described below, a user is enabled to select one or more of
the graphics by making a gesture on the graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202
(not drawn to scale in the figure) or one or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the
figure). In some embodiments, selection of one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks
contact with the one or more graphics. In some embodiments, the gesture optionally includes
one or more taps, one or more swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward and/or
                                                   33

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
downward) and/or a rolling of a finger (from right to left, left to right, upward and/or
downward) that has made contact with device 100. In some implementations or
circumstances, inadvertent contact with a graphic does not select the graphic. For example, a
swipe gesture that sweeps over an application icon optionally does not select the
corresponding application when the gesture corresponding to selection is a tap.
[00120]         Device 100 optionally also includes one or more physical buttons, such as
"home" or menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 is, optionally, used to
navigate to any application 136 in a set of applications that are, optionally executed on device
 100. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a
GUI displayed on the touch-screen display.
[00121]         In some embodiments, device 100 includes the touch-screen display, menu
button 204, push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume
adjustment button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head setjack 212,
and docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn the
power on/off on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed
state for a predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing
the button before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or
initiate an unlock process. In some embodiments, device 100 also accepts verbal input for
activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone 113. Device 100 also,
optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of
contacts on touch-sensitive display system 112 and/or one or more tactile output generators
 167 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[00122]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300
need not be portable. In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an educational
device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device (e.g., a home or
industrial controller). Device 300 typically includes one or more processing units (CPU's)
310, one or more network or other communications interfaces 360, memory 370, and one or
more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these components. Communication buses
320 optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls
communications between system components. Device 300 includes input/output (I/O)
                                                   34

  WO 2016/144577                                                          PCT/US2016/019913
interface 330 comprising display 340, which is typically a touch-screen display. I/O interface
330 also optionally includes a keyboard and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and
touchpad 355, tactile output generator 357 for generating tactile outputs on device 300 (e.g.,
similar to tactile output generator(s) 167 described above with reference to Figure 1A),
sensors 359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch-sensitive, and/or contact intensity
sensors similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described above with reference to Figure
 1A). Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM,
DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices; and optionally includes non
volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory 370
optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from CPU(s) 310. In some
embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures analogous to the
programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable multifunction
device 100 (Figure 1A), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores
additional programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100. For example, memory 370 of device 300 optionally stores drawing
module 380, presentation module 382, word processing module 384, website creation module
386, disk authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of
portable multifunction device 100 (Figure 1A) optionally does not store these modules.
[00123]          Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 are, optionally, stored in one
or more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified modules
corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above
identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as
separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these
modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In some
embodiments, memory 370 optionally stores a subset of the modules and data structures
identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores additional modules and data
structures not described above.
[00124]          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") that
are, optionally, implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[00125]          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user
                                                  35

  WO 2016/144577                                                         PCT/US2016/019913
interfaces are, optionally, implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user interface
400 includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
.       Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and
        Wi-Fi signals;
.       Time 404;
.       Bluetooth indicator 405;
.       Battery status indicator 406;
.       Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
            o   Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally
                includes an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail
                messages;
            o   Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally
                includes an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
            o   Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser;" and
            o   Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
                (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod;" and
*       Icons for other applications, such as:
            o   Icon 424 for I module 141, labeled "Messages;"
            o   Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar;"
            o   Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos;"
            o   Icon 430 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera;"
            o   Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video;"
            o   Icon 434 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks;"
            o   Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Map;"
            o   Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather;"
            o   Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock;"
            o   Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support;"
                                                 36

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
             o  Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes;" and
             o  Icon 446 for a settings application or module, which provides access to
                 settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[00126]         It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in Figure 4A are merely
exemplary. For example, in some embodiments, icon 422 for video and music player module
 152 is labeled "Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various
application icons. In some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a
name of an application corresponding to the respective application icon. In some
embodiments, a label for a particular application icon is distinct from a name of an
application corresponding to the particular application icon.
[00127]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450. Device 300 also, optionally, includes one or more contact
intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors 357) for detecting intensity of contacts on
touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more tactile output generators 359 for generating
tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[00128]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that is
separate from the display 450. Many of the examples that follow will be given with reference
to a device that detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display, as
shown in Figure 4B. In some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure
4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4B) that corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in
Figure 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In accordance with these embodiments, the device
detects contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in Figure 4B) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at
locations that correspond to respective locations on the display (e.g., in Figure 4B, 460
corresponds to 468 and 462 corresponds to 470). In this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460
and 462, and movements thereof) detected by the device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
451 in Figure 4B) are used by the device to manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g.,
450 in Figure 4B) of the multifunction device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate
from the display. It should be understood that similar methods are, optionally, used for other
user interfaces described herein.
                                                   37

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00129]          Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference
to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures, etc.), it
should be understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are
replaced with input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or a stylus input).
For example, a drag gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a
contact) followed by movement of the cursor along the path of the drag gesture (e.g., instead
of movement of the contact). As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with a
mouse click while the cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of
detection of the contact followed by ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when multiple
user inputs are simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple computer mice
are, optionally, used simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts are, optionally, used
simultaneously.
[00130]          As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that
indicates a current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some
implementations that include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus
selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touchpad 355 in Figure 3 or touch-sensitive surface 451 in Figure 4B) while the cursor
is over a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user
interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the
detected input. In some implementations that include a touch-screen display (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112 in Figure 1A or the touch screen in Figure 4A) that enables
direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch-screen display, a detected contact
on the touch-screen acts as a "focus selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input by the
contact) is detected on the touch-screen display at a location of a particular user interface
element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user interface element), the particular user
interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some implementations,
focus is moved from one region of a user interface to another region of the user interface
without corresponding movement of a cursor or movement of a contact on a touch-screen
display (e.g., by using a tab key or arrow keys to move focus from one button to another
button); in these implementations, the focus selector moves in accordance with movement of
focus between different regions of the user interface. Without regard to the specific form
taken by the focus selector, the focus selector is generally the user interface element (or
contact on a touch-screen display) that is controlled by the user so as to communicate the
                                                    38

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
user's intended interaction with the user interface (e.g., by indicating, to the device, the
element of the user interface with which the user is intending to interact). For example, the
location of a focus selector (e.g., a cursor, a contact, or a selection box) over a respective
button while a press input is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touchpad or touch
screen) will indicate that the user is intending to activate the respective button (as opposed to
other user interface elements shown on a display of the device).
[00131]         As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact (e.g., a
finger contact or a stylus contact) on the touch-sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for
the force or pressure of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has
a range of values that includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes
hundreds of distinct values (e.g., at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally, determined
(or measured) using various approaches and various sensors or combinations of sensors. For
example, one or more force sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch-sensitive surface are,
optionally, used to measure force at various points on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, force measurements from multiple force sensors are combined (e.g., a
weighted average or a sum) to determine an estimated force of a contact. Similarly, a
pressure-sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used to determine a pressure of the stylus on
the touch-sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the contact area detected on the touch
sensitive surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of the touch-sensitive surface
proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the resistance of the touch-sensitive
surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto are, optionally, used as a substitute
for the force or pressure of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are used directly
to determine whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is
described in units corresponding to the substitute measurements). In some implementations,
the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are converted to an estimated force
or pressure and the estimated force or pressure is used to determine whether an intensity
threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is a pressure threshold measured in
units of pressure). Using the intensity of a contact as an attribute of a user input allows for
user access to additional device functionality that may otherwise not be readily accessible by
the user on a reduced-size device with limited real estate for displaying affordances (e.g., on a
                                                    39

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
touch-sensitive display) and/or receiving user input (e.g., via a touch-sensitive display, a
touch-sensitive surface, or a physical/mechanical control such as a knob or a button).
[00132]          In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more
intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g., to
determine whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments, at least a subset of
the intensity thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters (e.g., the
intensity thresholds are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular physical
actuators and can be adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device 100). For
example, a mouse "click" threshold of a trackpad or touch-screen display can be set to any of
a large range of predefined thresholds values without changing the trackpad or touch-screen
display hardware. Additionally, in some implementations a user of the device is provided
with software settings for adjusting one or more of the set of intensity thresholds (e.g., by
adjusting individual intensity thresholds and/or by adjusting a plurality of intensity thresholds
at once with a system-level click "intensity" parameter).
[00133]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "characteristic intensity" of a
contact refers to a characteristic of the contact based on one or more intensities of the contact.
In some embodiments, the characteristic intensity is based on multiple intensity samples. The
characteristic intensity is, optionally, based on a predefined number of intensity samples, or a
set of intensity samples collected during a predetermined time period (e.g., 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5,
 1, 2, 5, 10 seconds) relative to a predefined event (e.g., after detecting the contact, prior to
detecting liftoff of the contact, before or after detecting a start of movement of the contact,
prior to detecting an end of the contact, before or after detecting an increase in intensity of the
contact, and/or before or after detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact). A
characteristic intensity of a contact is, optionally based on one or more of: a maximum value
of the intensities of the contact, a mean value of the intensities of the contact, an average
value of the intensities of the contact, a top 10 percentile value of the intensities of the
contact, a value at the half maximum of the intensities of the contact, a value at the 90 percent
maximum of the intensities of the contact, or the like. In some embodiments, the duration of
the contact is used in determining the characteristic intensity (e.g., when the characteristic
intensity is an average of the intensity of the contact over time). In some embodiments, the
characteristic intensity is compared to a set of one or more intensity thresholds to determine
whether an operation has been performed by a user. For example, the set of one or more
                                                   40

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
intensity thresholds may include a first intensity threshold and a second intensity threshold. In
this example, a contact with a characteristic intensity that does not exceed the first threshold
results in a first operation, a contact with a characteristic intensity that exceeds the first
intensity threshold and does not exceed the second intensity threshold results in a second
operation, and a contact with a characteristic intensity that exceeds the second intensity
threshold results in a third operation. In some embodiments, a comparison between the
characteristic intensity and one or more intensity thresholds is used to determine whether or
not to perform one or more operations (e.g., whether to perform a respective option or forgo
performing the respective operation) rather than being used to determine whether to perform
a first operation or a second operation.
[00134]            In some embodiments, a portion of a gesture is identified for purposes of
determining a characteristic intensity. For example, a touch-sensitive surface may receive a
continuous swipe contact transitioning from a start location and reaching an end location
(e.g., a drag gesture), at which point the intensity of the contact increases. In this example, the
characteristic intensity of the contact at the end location may be based on only a portion of
the continuous swipe contact, and not the entire swipe contact (e.g., only the portion of the
swipe contact at the end location). In some embodiments, a smoothing algorithm may be
applied to the intensities of the swipe contact prior to determining the characteristic intensity
of the contact. For example, the smoothing algorithm optionally includes one or more of: an
unweighted sliding-average smoothing algorithm, a triangular smoothing algorithm, a median
filter smoothing algorithm, and/or an exponential smoothing algorithm. In some
circumstances, these smoothing algorithms eliminate narrow spikes or dips in the intensities
of the swipe contact for purposes of determining a characteristic intensity.
[00135]            The user interface figures described herein (e.g., Figures 5A-5NN) optionally
include various intensity diagrams that show the current intensity of the contact on the touch
sensitive surface relative to one or more intensity thresholds (e.g., a contact detection
intensity threshold ITo, a light press intensity threshold ITL, a deep press intensity threshold
ITD   (e.g., that is at least initially higher than IL), and/or one or more other intensity thresholds
(e.g., an intensity threshold IH that is lower than IL)). This intensity diagram is typically not
part of the displayed user interface, but is provided to aid in the interpretation of the figures.
In some embodiments, the light press intensity threshold corresponds to an intensity at which
the device will perform operations typically associated with clicking a button of a physical
                                                       41

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
mouse or a trackpad. In some embodiments, the deep press intensity threshold corresponds to
an intensity at which the device will perform operations that are different from operations
typically associated with clicking a button of a physical mouse or a trackpad. In some
embodiments, when a contact is detected with a characteristic intensity below the light press
intensity threshold (e.g., and above a nominal contact-detection intensity threshold ITO below
which the contact is no longer detected), the device will move a focus selector in accordance
with movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface without performing an operation
associated with the light press intensity threshold or the deep press intensity threshold.
Generally, unless otherwise stated, these intensity thresholds are consistent between different
sets of user interface figures.
[00136]         In some embodiments, the response of the device to inputs detected by the
device depends on criteria based on the contact intensity during the input. For example, for
some "light press" inputs, the intensity of a contact exceeding a first intensity threshold
during the input triggers a first response. In some embodiments, the response of the device to
inputs detected by the device depends on criteria that include both the contact intensity during
the input and time-based criteria. For example, for some "deep press" inputs, the intensity of
a contact exceeding a second intensity threshold during the input, greater than the first
intensity threshold for a light press, triggers a second response only if a delay time has
elapsed between meeting the first intensity threshold and meeting the second intensity
threshold. This delay time is typically less than 200 ms in duration (e.g., 40, 100, or 120 ins,
depending on the magnitude of the second intensity threshold, with the delay time increasing
as the second intensity threshold increases). This delay time helps to avoid accidental deep
press inputs. As another example, for some "deep press" inputs, there is a reduced-sensitivity
time period that occurs after the time at which the first intensity threshold is met. During the
reduced-sensitivity time period, the second intensity threshold is increased. This temporary
increase in the second intensity threshold also helps to avoid accidental deep press inputs. For
other deep press inputs, the response to detection of a deep press input does not depend on
time-based criteria.
[00137]         In some embodiments, one or more of the input intensity thresholds and/or the
corresponding outputs vary based on one or more factors, such as user settings, contact
motion, input timing, application running, rate at which the intensity is applied, number of
concurrent inputs, user history, environmental factors (e.g., ambient noise), focus selector
                                                    42

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
position, and the like. Exemplary factors are described in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos.
 14/399,606 and 14/624,296, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
[00138]          For example, Figure 4C illustrates a dynamic intensity threshold 480 that
changes over time based in part on the intensity of touch input 476 over time. Dynamic
intensity threshold 480 is a sum of two components, first component 474 that decays over
time after a predefined delay time p l from when touch input 476 is initially detected, and
second component 478 that trails the intensity of touch input 476 over time. The initial high
intensity threshold of first component 474 reduces accidental triggering of a "deep press"
response, while still allowing an immediate "deep press" response if touch input 476 provides
sufficient intensity. Second component 478 reduces unintentional triggering of a "deep press"
response by gradual intensity fluctuations of in a touch input. In some embodiments, when
touch input 476 satisfies dynamic intensity threshold 480 (e.g., at point 481 in Figure 4C), the
"deep press" response is triggered.
[00139]          Figure 4D illustrates another dynamic intensity threshold 486 (e.g., intensity
threshold ID). Figure 4D also illustrates two other intensity thresholds: a first intensity
threshold IH and a second intensity threshold IL. In Figure 4D, although touch input 484
satisfies the first intensity threshold IH and the second intensity threshold IL prior to time p2,
no response is provided until delay time p2 has elapsed at time 482. Also in Figure 4D,
dynamic intensity threshold 486 decays over time, with the decay starting at time 488 after a
predefined delay time pl has elapsed from time 482 (when the response associated with the
second intensity threshold IL was triggered). This type of dynamic intensity threshold reduces
accidental triggering of a response associated with the dynamic intensity threshold ID
immediately after, or concurrently with, triggering a response associated with a lower
intensity threshold, such as the first intensity threshold IH or the second intensity threshold IL.
[00140]          Figure 4E illustrate yet another dynamic intensity threshold 492 (e.g., intensity
threshold ID). In Figure 4E, a response associated with the intensity threshold IL is triggered
after the delay time p2 has elapsed from when touch input 490 is initially detected.
Concurrently, dynamic intensity threshold 492 decays after the predefined delay time p1 has
elapsed from when touch input 490 is initially detected. So a decrease in intensity of touch
input 490 after triggering the response associated with the intensity threshold IL, followed by
an increase in the intensity of touch input 490, without releasing touch input 490, can trigger
a response associated with the intensity threshold ID (e.g., at time 494) even when the
                                                    43

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
intensity of touch input 490 is below another intensity threshold, for example, the intensity
threshold IL. See Figures 500-5QQ and the discussion thereof below for additional
description of dynamic intensity thresholds and their uses.
[00141]         An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below
the light press intensity threshold ITL to an intensity between the light press intensity
threshold ITL and the deep press intensity threshold ITD is sometimes referred to as a "light
press" input. An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below the
deep press intensity threshold ITD to an intensity above the deep press intensity threshold ITD
is sometimes referred to as a "deep press" input. An increase of characteristic intensity of the
contact from an intensity below the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO to an intensity
between the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO and the light press intensity threshold
ITL is sometimes referred to as detecting the contact on the touch-surface. A decrease of
characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity above the contact-detection intensity
threshold ITO to an intensity below the contact-detection intensity threshold ITO is sometimes
referred to as detecting liftoff of the contact from the touch-surface. In some embodiments
ITO is zero. In some embodiments, ITO is greater than zero. In some illustrations a shaded
circle or oval is used to represent intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In
some illustrations, a circle or oval without shading is used represent a respective contact on
the touch-sensitive surface without specifying the intensity of the respective contact.
[00142]         In some embodiments, described herein, one or more operations are performed
in response to detecting a gesture that includes a respective press input or in response to
detecting the respective press input performed with a respective contact (or a plurality of
contacts), where the respective press input is detected based at least in part on detecting an
increase in intensity of the contact (or plurality of contacts) above a press-input intensity
threshold. In some embodiments, the respective operation is performed in response to
detecting the increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity
threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on a "down stroke" of the respective
press input). In some embodiments, the press input includes an increase in intensity of the
respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a subsequent decrease in
intensity of the contact below the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation
is performed in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective
                                                   44

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
contact below the press-input threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on an "up
stroke" of the respective press input).
[00143]          In some embodiments, the device employs intensity hysteresis to avoid
accidental inputs sometimes termed "jitter," where the device defines or selects a hysteresis
intensity threshold with a predefined relationship to the press-input intensity threshold (e.g.,
the hysteresis intensity threshold is X intensity units lower than the press-input intensity
threshold or the hysteresis intensity threshold is 75%, 90%, or some reasonable proportion of
the press-input intensity threshold). Thus, in some embodiments, the press input includes an
increase in intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a
subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity threshold that
corresponds to the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation is performed
in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective contact below
the hysteresis intensity threshold (e.g., the respective operation is performed on an "up
stroke" of the respective press input). Similarly, in some embodiments, the press input is
detected only when the device detects an increase in intensity of the contact from an intensity
at or below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity at or above the press-input
intensity threshold and, optionally, a subsequent decrease in intensity of the contact to an
intensity at or below the hysteresis intensity, and the respective operation is performed in
response to detecting the press input (e.g., the increase in intensity of the contact or the
decrease in intensity of the contact, depending on the circumstances).
[00144]          For ease of explanation, the description of operations performed in response to
a press input associated with a press-input intensity threshold or in response to a gesture
including the press input are, optionally, triggered in response to detecting: an increase in
intensity of a contact above the press-input intensity threshold, an increase in intensity of a
contact from an intensity below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity above the
press-input intensity threshold, a decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input
intensity threshold, or a decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity
threshold corresponding to the press-input intensity threshold. Additionally, in examples
where an operation is described as being performed in response to detecting a decrease in
intensity of a contact below the press-input intensity threshold, the operation is, optionally,
performed in response to detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact below a hysteresis
intensity threshold corresponding to, and lower than, the press-input intensity threshold. As
                                                   45

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
described above, in some embodiments, the triggering of these responses also depends on
time-based criteria being met (e.g., a delay time has elapsed between a first intensity
threshold being met and a second intensity threshold being met).
                    USER INTERFACES AND ASSOCIATED PROCESSES
[00145]          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") and
associated processes that may be implemented on an electronic device, such as portable
multifunction device 100 or device 300, with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or
more sensors to detect intensities of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface.
[00146]          Figures 5A-5NN illustrate exemplary user interfaces for processing touch
inputs in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures are used to
illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures 6A-6E, 7A-7D,
8A-8F, and 9A-9C. Although some of the examples which follow will be given with
reference to inputs on a touch-sensitive surface 451 that is separate from the display 450, in
some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-screen display (where the touch
sensitive surface and the display are combined), as shown in Figure 4A.
[00147]          Figure 5A illustrates user interface 5002-A for a file navigation application
displayed on display 450. In some embodiments, user interface 5002-A is used to manage,
view, access and/or organize files residing on the device (e.g., device 100 or device 300).
Figure 5A also illustrates various control objects, such as directory control objects 5006, and
file view control objects 5008. In Figure 5A, user interface 5002 includes files displayed
under a list view. File view control object 5008-2, which corresponds to a list view option, is
displayed in a visually distinguished manner from other file view control objects (e.g., object
5008-1), to indicate to the user of the device that user interface 5002-A includes the list view
option, of the file view options, has been selected. User interface 5002-A illustrates that the
contents of the "Macintosh HD" directory are being displayed, as indicated by title 5012 and
directory control object 5006-1 being displayed in a visually distinct manner from other
directory control objects, such as object 5006-2.
[00148]          User interface 5002 also shows several icons representing files and folders.
These file and folder icons are exemplary draggable objects 5004. In some embodiments,
draggable objects 5004 can be moved from one location in a user interface, such as user
interface 5002-A, to another location. In some embodiments, draggable objects refer to user
                                                   46

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
interface objects that are configured to be moved independently (e.g., draggable objects 5004
can be moved without moving user interface 5002-A, although draggable objects 5004 may
also be moved by moving user interface 5002-A). In some embodiments, control objects such
as directory control objects 5006 or file view control objects 5008 cannot be moved
independently (e.g., certain control objects 5006 cannot be around within user interface 5002
A). In some embodiments, draggable objects refer to user interface objects that are
configured to be moved individually (e.g., a draggable object 5004 can be moved without
moving any other user interface objects, such as another draggable object or a control object).
In some embodiments, a control object is configured to initiate, when selected or activated, a
predefined operation (e.g., changing a view of a user interface) other than displaying content
of a draggable object (e.g., a file or a photo) or launching an application that corresponds to
the draggable object. Figure 5A illustrates the state of display 450 and touch-sensitive surface
451 before an input is detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A
illustrates the absence of any contact intensity detected on touch-sensitive surface 451.
[00149]          Figure 5B illustrates a focus selector 5013 (e.g., a cursor), displayed in user
interface 5002-A, over draggable object 5004-2. In Figure 5B, the location of exemplary
input that includes contact 5016 on touch-sensitive surface 451 corresponds to the location of
the focus selector 5013 in user interface 5002-A. In some embodiments, focus selector was
displayed over a different area in user interface 5002-A at a location that corresponds to the
location of contact 5014 on touch-sensitive surface 451, before the focus selector 5013 is
moved in response to the movement of a contact from the location 5014 to the location 5016.
[00150]          Contact 5016 is shown to exhibit "minimal" contact with touch-sensitive
surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITO
and ITL, corresponding to the minimal contact detected, of contact 5016. In some
embodiments, a minimal contact with touch-sensitive surface 451 is characterized as any
contact detected to have an intensity between thresholds ITo and ITL. In some embodiments,
contact 5014 also exhibited minimal contact with touch-sensitive surface 451. In some
embodiments, contact 5014 and contact 5016 are part of one continuously detected user
interaction (e.g., dragging or tracing gesture) with touch-sensitive surface 451. As used
herein, "minimal contact" refers to a contact having intensity within a certain intensity range,
and does not necessarily indicate that intensity of a minimal contact is at a minimum. For
                                                   47

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
example, a contact with touch-sensitive surface 451 may have an intensity below the intensity
range for a minimal contact (e.g., intensity below ITo).
[00151]          Figure 5C illustrates an increase in intensity detected at contact 5016. Intensity
diagram 5010-A illustrates an increase in detected intensity from an intensity below ITL to an
intensity above ITL. In some embodiments, the detected increase in intensity at the location of
contact 5016 is considered to be a distinct input from the minimal contact detected at contact
5016 in Figure 5B. For example, Figure 5B showed a minimal contact input, while Figure 5C
illustrates a "light press" user input at contact 5016.
[00152]          In some embodiments, detecting a contact intensity above intensity threshold
ITL while focus selector 5013 is displayed over draggable object 504-2 results in the
satisfaction of one or more object selection criteria. For example, if a light press input is
detected on touch-sensitive surface 451 while a cursor is over a file folder, the file folder is
selected. In some embodiments, the detected contact intensity must be between ITL and ITD,
in order to satisfy the one or more object selection criteria. In some embodiments, detected
contact intensity above ITL is sufficient to satisfy the one or more object selection criteria
without regard to whether or not the detected contact intensity is above or below ITD.
[00153]          Figure 5D illustrates a detected movement 5020 of a user interaction with
touch-sensitive surface 451 from contact 5016 to contact 5018. Intensity diagram 5010-A
shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5016 before movement 5020
was initiated. Intensity diagram 5010-B shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at
contact 5018 after movement 5020 has concluded. Both contacts have a detected intensity
above intensity threshold ITL, and below intensity threshold ITD. In some embodiments, the
detected contact intensity must be between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more
object selection criteria. In some embodiments, detected contact intensity above ITL is
sufficient to satisfy the one or more object selection criteria without regard to whether or not
the detected contact intensity is above or below ITD.
[00154]          Figure 5D also illustrates that in some embodiments, the detected intensity
level can fluctuate across a single user interaction, or from contact to contact (e.g., during the
movement of a user input from 5016 to 5018). In some embodiments, if the fluctuation in
detected intensity causes the detected intensity to exceed ITD or fall below ITL, the one or
more object selection criteria will not be satisfied. In some embodiments, if the fluctuation in
detected intensity causes the detected intensity to fall below ITL, the one or more object
                                                    48

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
selection criteria will not be satisfied. Figure 5D shows focus selector 5013 in a new position
within user interface 5002-A, corresponding to the location of contact 5018 and/or movement
5020 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451.
[00155]         In some embodiments, user interface 5002-A is said to have one or more
regions, where a respective region is associated with one or more operations or display
operations. For example, user interface 5002-A shows at least region 5024 and region 5022.
In this example, region 5024 contains one or more draggable objects 5004, and region 5022
contains one or more control objects 5008. In some embodiments, a region contains one or
more regions (e.g., sub-regions). For example, each draggable object 5004 within region
5024 is considered to be a respective region or sub-region. In some embodiments, a region is
characterized by the display operations which the region is configured to initiate (e.g.,
changing a file view, changing a calendar view, showing a menu, and changing color or
opacity of an object). In some embodiments, a region is characterized by the contents of the
region (e.g., containing one or more draggable objects, or containing one or more control
obj ects).
[00156]         Figure 5D illustrates draggable object 5004-2 in a visually distinct manner
from other draggable objects 5004 (e.g., draggable object 5004-1), to indicate that draggable
object 5004-2 is selected. In some embodiments, focus selector 5013 is displayed in
conjunction with a representation of the selected object (e.g., a representation of object 5004
2), when an object is selected. Focus selector 5013 is being displayed over file view control
object 5008-1.
[00157]         Figure 5D also illustrates that file view control object 5008-1 is visually
distinguished in response to focus selector 5013 being displayed over file view control object
5008-1 (and prior to detecting that intensity of the contact satisfies intensity threshold ITD).
This visual distinction indicates that file view control object 5008-1 is configured to perform
a predefined display operation (e.g., displaying contents of the directory in an icon view).
[00158]         Figure 5E illustrates detection of an increase in intensity at contact 5018.
Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity level exceeding intensity threshold ITD.
In some embodiments, the detected increase in intensity at the location of contact 5018 is
considered to be a distinct input from the contact detected at contact 5018 in Figure 5D. For
example, Figure 5D showed a "light press" input, while Figure 5E illustrates a "deep press"
user input at contact 5018.
                                                   49

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00159]          In response to detecting the increase (or a change) in intensity at contact 5018,
file view control object 5008-1 is activated, and in some embodiments, as shown in Figure
5E, it is displayed in a visually distinct manner to indicate that file view control object 5008-1
is activated. In this example, file view control object 5008-1 is an icon-view control object,
and a display operation is performed to switch the display of the contents of region 5024 from
being shown in a list view to being shown in this icon view. In some embodiments, draggable
object 5004-2 is still shown in a visually distinct manner from the other displayed draggable
objects, to indicate that draggable object 5004-2 is selected. In some embodiments, detecting
that contact 5018 continues to maintain intensity above threshold ITD does not cause any
further display operation to be performed. In some embodiments, detecting a reduction in
intensity to a level below threshold ITD but above ITL at contact 5018, maintains selection of
draggable object 5004-2 but does not cause any further display operation to be performed.
[00160]          Figure 5F illustrates movement of focus selector 5013 (and optionally a
representation of selected object 5004-2), in user interface 5002-A from the location
corresponding to file view control object 5008-1 to directory control object 5006-2 (e.g.,
Desktop). Figure 5F shows that a movement 5026 of a user interaction on touch-sensitive
surface 451 is detected from contact 5018 to contact 5028. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows
the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5018 before movement 5026 was
initiated. Intensity diagram 5010-B shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at
contact 5028 after movement 5026 has concluded. Both contacts have a detected intensity
above intensity threshold ITL, and below ITD. In some embodiments, the detected contact
intensity must be between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more object selection
criteria. In some embodiments, detected contact intensity above ITL is Sufficient to satisfy the
one or more object selection criteria without regard to whether or not the detected contact
intensity is above or below ITD.
[00161]          Figure 5G illustrates detection of an increase in intensity at contact 5018.
Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity level exceeding intensity threshold ITD.
In some embodiments, the detected increase in intensity at the location of contact 5028 is
considered to be a distinct input from the contact detected at contact 5028 in Figure 5F. For
example, Figure 5F showed a "light press" input, while Figure 5G illustrates a "deep press"
user input at contact 5028.
                                                   50

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[00162]         In response to detecting the increase (or a change) in intensity at contact 5028,
directory control object 5006-2 is activated, and in some embodiments, as shown in Figure
5G, it is displayed in a visually distinct manner to indicate that it is activated. In this example,
directory control object 5006-2 corresponds to a file directory called "Desktop", and a display
operation is performed to switch the display of the contents of region 5024 from showing the
contents of the "Macintosh HD" directory, to the contents of the "Desktop" directory. In
some embodiments, draggable object 5004-2 is still selected, but is not shown in user
interface 5002-A because it is still located in a directory that is not being displayed in region
5024 anymore (e.g., in Macintosh HD directory). In some embodiments, detecting that
contact 5028 continues to maintain intensity above threshold ITD at does not cause any further
display operation to be performed. In some embodiments, detecting a reduction in intensity to
a level below threshold ITD but above ITL at contact 5028, maintains selection of draggable
object 5004-2 but does not cause any further display operation to be performed.
[00163]         Figure 5H illustrates movement of focus selector 5013 (and optionally a
representation of selected object 5004-2), in user interface 5002-A from the location
corresponding to directory control object 5006-2 to region 5024. Figure 5H shows that a
movement 5030 of a user interaction on touch-sensitive surface 451 is detected from contact
5028 to contact 5032. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows the detected intensity of the user
interaction at contact 5028 before movement 5030 was initiated. Intensity diagram 5010-B
shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5032 after movement 5030 has
concluded. Both contacts have a detected intensity above intensity threshold ITL, and below
ITD. As described above, in some embodiments, the detected contact intensity must be
between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more object selection criteria. In some
embodiments, detected contact intensity above ITL is Sufficient to satisfy the one or more
object selection criteria without regard to whether or not the detected contact intensity is
above or below ITD.
[00164]         Figure 5H also shows that in some embodiments, displaying the movement of
focus selector 5013 from the region corresponding to directory control object 5006-2 to
region 5024, while object 5004-2 is selected, includes displaying a representation of selected
draggable object 5004-2. In some embodiments, selected draggable object 5004-2 is
displayed in a visually distinct manner from other draggable objects in user interface 5002-A
as long as draggable object 5004-2 is still selected.
                                                   51

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00165]         Figure 51 illustrates no contact being detected on touch-sensitive surface 451.
Intensity diagram 5010-A indicates the absence of any intensity as well. In response to
detecting a decrease in intensity below threshold ITL (or, optionally failing to meet object
selection criteria for one or more other reasons), user interface 5002-A shows de-selection of
draggable object 5004-2, and re-location of draggable object 5004-2 to the Desktop directory.
In some embodiments, draggable object 5004-2 is no longer displayed in a visually distinct
manner from other draggable objects in user interface 5002-A, when it is de-selected.
[00166]         Figure 5J illustrates a user interaction detected on touch-sensitive surface 451,
at contact 5034. For example, the user interaction is a minimal contact, as described above.
Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity level below threshold ITL. In response to
detecting the minimal contact at contact 5034, focus selector 5013 is shown over draggable
object 5004-3.
[00167]         Figure 5K illustrates movement of focus selector 5013, in response to
detecting movement 5036 on touch-sensitive surface 451, from contact 5034 to 5038. In this
example, intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates that the detected intensity of contact 5034 is
below threshold ITL and intensity diagram 5010-B illustrates that the detected intensity of
contact 5038 is also below threshold ITL. In response to detecting that the intensity level of
contact 5034 is below threshold ITL, when focus selector 5013 moves from being displayed
over draggable object 5004-3 in Figure 5J, to being displayed over directory control object
5006-3, draggable object 5004-3 is not selected.
[00168]         Figure 5L illustrates detection of an increase in intensity at contact 5038.
Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity level exceeding intensity threshold ITL.
In some embodiments, the detected increase in intensity at the location of contact 5038 is
considered to be a distinct input from the contact detected at contact 5038 in Figure 5K. For
example, Figure 5K showed a "minimal contact" input, while Figure 5L illustrates a "light
press" user input at contact 5038.
[00169]         Figure 5L also shows focus selector 5013 displayed over directory control
object 506-3. In response to detecting the increase in intensity at contact 5038, directory
control object 506-3 is activated, and in some embodiments, as shown in Figure 5L, it is
displayed in a visually distinct manner to indicate that it is activated. In this example,
directory control object 5006-3 corresponds to a file directory called "Backup Directory", and
a display operation is performed to switch the display of the contents of region 5024 from
                                                   52

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
showing the contents of the "Desktop" directory, to the contents of the "Backup Directory"
directory. In some embodiments, detecting maintained intensity above threshold ITL at
contact 5038 does not cause any further display operation to be performed. In some
embodiments, directory control object 506-3 is configured to perform a display operation in
user interface 5002-A in response to detecting a change in detected intensity at contact 5038
(e.g., a response to a deep press input).
[00170]         Figure 5M illustrates detection of a user interaction with touch-sensitive
surface 451 including contact 5040. In this example, intensity diagram 5010-A shows a
detected intensity level exceeding intensity threshold ITL. Focus selector 5013 is displayed
over draggable object 5004-4 while the intensity level of contact 5040 is detected to exceed
intensity threshold ITL. In this example, one or more object selection criteria are satisfied
while focus selector 5013 is displayed over draggable object 5004-4, and object 5004-4 is
selected.
[00171]         Figure 5N illustrates movement of focus selector 5013 (and optionally a
representation of selected object 5004-4), in user interface 5002-A from the location
corresponding to draggable object 5004-4 to control object 5008-3 (e.g., a search field).
Figure 5N shows that a movement 5042 of a user interaction on touch-sensitive surface 451 is
detected from contact 5040 to contact 5044. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows the detected
intensity of the user interaction at contact 5040 before movement 5042 was initiated.
Intensity diagram 5010-B shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5044
after movement 5042 has concluded. Both contacts have a detected intensity above intensity
threshold ITL, and below ITD. As described above, in some embodiments, the detected
contact intensity must be between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more object
selection criteria. In some embodiments, detected contact intensity above ITL is Sufficient to
satisfy the one or more object selection criteria without regard to whether or not the detected
contact intensity is above or below ITD.
[00172]         Figure 50 illustrates detection of an increase in intensity at contact 5044.
Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity level exceeding intensity threshold ITD.
In some embodiments, the detected increase in intensity at the location of contact 5044 is
considered to be a distinct input from the contact detected at contact 5044 in Figure 5N. For
example, Figure 5N showed a "light press" input, while Figure 50 illustrates a "deep press"
user input at contact 5044. In this example, the device (or user interface 5002-A) is not
                                                  53

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
configured to perform a display operation in response to detection of the "deep press" input
while focus selector 5013 is displayed over control object 5008-3.
[00173]         Figure 5P illustrates no contact being detected on touch-sensitive surface 451.
Intensity diagram 5010-A indicates the absence of any intensity as well. In response to
detecting a decrease in intensity below threshold ITL (or, optionally failing to meet object
selection criteria for one or more other reasons) regardless of whether or not a contact is
detected on touch-sensitive surface 451, user interface 5002-A shows de-selection of
draggable object 5004-4, and continued display of object 5004-4 in the "Backup Directory"
directory. In some embodiments, draggable object 5004-4 is no longer displayed in a visually
distinct manner from other draggable objects in user interface 5002-A, when it is de-selected.
In this example, control object 5008-3 is not configured to perform an operation involving
placement of a draggable object 5004 over it. For example, dragging a folder from a directory
to a search field and releasing it does not result in performance of any operations associated
with the search field.
[00174]         Figure 5Q illustrates user interfaces of two applications or two instances of
applications displayed on display 450. User interface 5002-A corresponds to an instance of a
file management program (e.g., Finder from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California), and user
interface 5002-B corresponds to another instance of the same file management program.
While Figure 5Q illustrates user interfaces corresponding to two instances of one application,
it will be understood that in some embodiments user interface 5002-A corresponds to a first
software application and user interface 5002-B corresponds to a second software application,
distinct from the first software application (e.g., user interface 5002-A corresponds to an
image management application and user interface 5002-B corresponds to a word processing
application).
[00175]         Figure 5R illustrates detection of a user interaction (e.g., a light press input) on
touch-sensitive surface 451, including contact 5046. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a
detected intensity level above threshold ITL. In response to detecting the user interaction at
contact 5046, focus selector 5013 is shown over draggable object 5004-5. In this example,
one or more object selection criteria are satisfied while focus selector 5013 is displayed over
draggable object 5004-5, and object 5004-5 is selected.
[00176]         Figure 5S illustrates movement of focus selector 5013 (and optionally a
representation of selected object 5004-5), in user interface 5002-A from the location
                                                   54

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
corresponding to draggable object 5004-5 to a visible portion of user interface 5002-B. Figure
5S shows that a movement 5048 of a user interaction on touch-sensitive surface 451 is
detected from contact 5046 to contact 5050. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows the detected
intensity of the user interaction at contact 5046 before movement 5048 was initiated.
Intensity diagram 5010-B shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5050
after movement 5048 has concluded. Both contacts have a detected intensity above intensity
threshold ITL, and below ITD. As described above, in some embodiments, the detected
contact intensity must be between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more object
selection criteria. In some embodiments, detected contact intensity above ITL is Sufficient to
satisfy the one or more object selection criteria without regard to whether or not the detected
contact intensity is above or below ITD.
[00177]         Figure 5T illustrates detection of an increase in intensity at contact 5050 in
accordance with some embodiments. Intensity diagram 5010-A shows a detected intensity
level exceeding intensity threshold ITD. In some embodiments, the detected increase in
intensity at the location of contact 5050 is considered to be a distinct input from the contact
detected at contact 5050 in Figure 5S. In this example, the focus selector 5013 is displayed
over at least a portion of user interface 5002-B when the increase in intensity is detected. In
some embodiments, user interface 5002-B is displayed in a visually distinct way from other
displayed user interfaces in display 450 (e.g., user interface 5002-A), in response to detecting
focus selector 5013 over at least a portion of user interface 5002-B, or in response to
detecting focus selector 5013 over at least a portion of user interface 5002-B while the
intensity of contact 5050 is above threshold ITL, or in response to detecting focus selector
5013 over at least a portion of user interface 5002-B while the intensity of contact 5050 is
above threshold ITD. For example, user interface 5002-B is displayed with a glowing border
to indicate that the focus selector was successfully moved over to at least a portion of user
interface 5002-B. In some embodiments, user interface 5002-B is displayed in a visually
distinct manner to indicate the ability to perform an operation in response to detecting an
intensity of contact 5050 above threshold ITD.
[00178]         Figure 5U illustrates some embodiments, where contact 5050 is detected to
have an intensity level maintained at a particular level or range (e.g., between threshold ITL,
and threshold ITD) for at least a predetermined amount of time, while the focus selector 5013
is displayed over at least a portion of user interface 5002-B. For example, a predetermined
                                                   55

  WO 2016/144577                                                          PCT/US2016/019913
time duration threshold of 2 seconds is met by detecting a "light press" input for a time
duration 5052 of 2.5 seconds at a location on touch-sensitive surface 451, corresponding to a
visible portion of user interface 5002-B.
[00179]          Figure 5V illustrates a display operation performed in response to the
activities of either Figure 5T or Figure 5U. In Figure 5V, user interface 5002-B is displayed
in front of user interface 5002-A, allowing the user of the device to see the contents of user
interface 5002-B. In some embodiments, after the display operation is performed to display
user interface 5002-B over user interface 5002-A, the intensity level of contact 5050 is
detected to have decreased from being above threshold ITD to being between threshold ITL,
and threshold ITD. In some embodiments, the detected contact intensity of contact 5050 is
maintained at a level between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy the one or more object selection
criteria.
[00180]          In some embodiments, draggable object 5004-5 is still selected, but is not
shown in user interface 5002-B because object 5004-5 is still located in a directory that is
being displayed in user interface 5002-A (e.g., Backup Directory), and user interface 5002-B
is displaying the contents of a different directory (e.g., Macintosh HD). In some
embodiments, detecting maintained intensity above threshold ITD at contact 5050 does not
cause any further display operation to be performed. In some embodiments, detecting a
reduction in intensity to a level below threshold ITD but above ITL at contact 5050, maintains
selection of draggable object 5004-5 but does not cause any further display operation to be
performed.
[00181]          Figure 5W illustrates movement of focus selector 5013 (and optionally a
representation of selected object 5004-5), in user interface 5002-B from region 5052 of the
user interface to region 5054. Figure 5W shows that a movement 5056 of a user interaction
on touch-sensitive surface 451 is detected from contact 5050 to contact 5058. Intensity
diagram 5010-A shows the detected intensity of the user interaction at contact 5050 before
movement 5056 was initiated. Intensity diagram 5010-B shows the detected intensity of the
user interaction at contact 5058 after movement 5056 has concluded. Both contacts have a
detected intensity above intensity threshold ITL, and below ITD. As described above, in some
embodiments, the detected contact intensity must be between ITL and ITD, in order to satisfy
the one or more object selection criteria. In some embodiments, detected contact intensity
                                                   56

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
above ITL is sufficient to satisfy the one or more object selection criteria without regard to
whether or not the detected contact intensity is above or below ITD.
[00182]         Figure 5X illustrates no contact being detected on touch-sensitive surface 451.
Intensity diagram 5010-A indicates the absence of any intensity as well. In response to
detecting a decrease in intensity below threshold ITL (or, optionally failing to meet object
selection criteria for one or more other reasons) regardless of whether or not a contact
remains on touch-sensitive surface 451, user interface 5002-B shows de-selection of
draggable object 5004-5, and re-location of draggable object 5004-5 to the "Macintosh HD"
directory displayed in user interface 5002-B. In some embodiments, draggable object 5004-5
is no longer displayed in a visually distinct manner from other draggable objects in user
interface 5002-B, when it is de-selected.
[00183]         Figure 5Y illustrates tactile output setting chart 5060, used to indicate
activation of one or more tactile output settings associated with one or more tactile output
generators of the device. In some embodiments, one or more tactile output generators are
embedded in or are otherwise coupled to touch-sensitive surface 451. Examples of tactile
outputs will be discussed with respect to touch-sensitive surface 451, but it will be
understood that other physical implementations for providing tactile output are possible and
intended to be included herein.
[00184]         Figure 5Y illustrates a first tactile output setting being active, and a user
interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. In some
embodiments, the first tactile output setting corresponds to a "silent trackpad mode," or a
mode involving little to no tactile output generation and/or little to no sound generation in
conjunction with the performance of display operations. In some embodiments, the silent
trackpad mode is a mode of touch-sensitive surface operation in which the features of a
normal mode of touch-sensitive surface operation are available at lower intensity thresholds
(e.g., instead of pressing to ITL and then releasing, the user can tap on the touch-sensitive
surface and then release to perform a primary operation, and instead of pressing to ITD and
then releasing, the user press to ITL and then release to perform an alternate operation). This
enables users to access all of the functionality of the normal mode of touch-sensitive surface
operation without applying as much force. Additionally, in the "silent trackpad" mode of
operation, some audible or tactile outputs associated with reaching different intensity levels
can be reduced so as to reduce the noise caused by using the device in quiet environments
                                                    57

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
(e.g., environments with low ambient noise, such as libraries, business meetings, classrooms,
etc.).
[00185]         Contact 5062 is shown to exhibit minimal contact with touch-sensitive surface
451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITO and ITL,
corresponding to the minimal contact detected, of contact 5062. For example, the user
interaction including contact 5062 is a light tap on touch-sensitive surface 451, or a very
light, continuously maintained contact.
[00186]         Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. As described above, in some embodiments, respective objects of a user
interface displayed on display 450, are defined to have respective regions. Accordingly, in
response to detecting a contact with intensity between thresholds ITO and ITL while the first
tactile output setting is active (e.g., silent trackpad mode) and focus selector 5013 is
displayed over the region corresponding to draggable object 5004-6, a first display operation
is performed. In this example, a folder in the Macintosh HD directory is selected and a
display operation is performed to visually distinguish the folder from other un-selected
folders in the same directory (e.g., so as to indicate that further user inputs on touch-sensitive
surface 451 will affect the selected object, for example a lateral movement of the contact on
touch-sensitive surface 451 will cause user interface object 5004-6 to be moved on the
display, while pressing harder on touch-sensitive surface 451 will cause a contextual menu to
be displayed). In this example there is no tactile output generated in conjunction with
performing the display operation, but in some embodiments a tactile output is generated. In
this example there is no sound generated in conjunction with performing the display
operation, but in some embodiments a sound is generated. In some embodiments, a quick tap
on touch sensitive surface 451 (between thresholds ITO and ITL that ends within a
predetermined time period) causes a primary activation operation to be performed, such as
opening the "users" folder represented by icon 5004-6, while a maintained contact on touch
sensitive surface 451 (between thresholds ITO and ITL that does not end within a
predetermined time period) enables other operations to be performed (e.g., moving user
interface object 5004-6).
[00187]         Figure 5Z illustrates the first tactile output setting being active (e.g., silent
trackpad mode), and a user interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive
surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITL
                                                     58

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
and ITD, corresponding to contact 5062. For example, the user interaction including contact
5062 is a medium-intensity, continuously maintained contact (e.g., a contact with intensity
between thresholds ITL and ITD).
[00188]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 while the first tactile output setting is active and a
contact intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD is detected, a second display operation is
performed. In this example, it is desired to view options relating to a particular folder in the
Macintosh HD directory, and a display operation is performed to display a menu 5064 of
options relating to the folder. In this example there is no tactile output generated in
conjunction with performing the display operation, but in some embodiments a tactile output
is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in conjunction with performing the
display operation, but in some embodiments a sound is generated.
[00189]          In some embodiments, the second display operation is performed in response
to detecting a contact intensity above intensity threshold ITL while focus selector 5013 is
displayed over the region corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 and the first tactile
output setting is active (e.g., silent trackpad mode) regardless of whether or not the contact
intensity is above intensity threshold ITD.
[00190]          In some embodiments, the second display operation is performed in response
to detecting a contact intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD while focus selector 5013 is
displayed over the region corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 and the first tactile
output setting is active, and no further display operation is performed in response to
detecting a contact intensity above intensity threshold ITD while focus selector 5013 is
displayed over the region corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 and the first tactile
output setting is active. For example, the menu 5064 remains on display even when the
contact intensity is above threshold ITD.
[00191]          Figure 5AA illustrates alternate embodiments, where the first tactile output
setting is active (e.g., silent trackpad mode), and a user interaction includes contact 5062
detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected
intensity above threshold ITD, corresponding to contact 5062. For example, the user
interaction including contact 5062 is a high-intensity, short-duration contact (e.g., a contact
with intensity above threshold ITD).
                                                  59

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[00192]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 while the first tactile output setting is active and a
contact intensity above threshold ITD is detected, no display operation is performed. In this
example, while the first tactile output setting is active, there is no display operation associated
with the detected intensity level. In this example there is no tactile output generated in
response to detecting the contact, but in some embodiments a tactile output is generated. In
this example there is no sound generated in response to detecting the contact, but in some
embodiments a sound is generated.
[00193]          Figure 5BB illustrates a second tactile output setting being active, and a user
interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram
5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITO and ITL, corresponding to the
minimal contact detected, of contact 5062. For example, the user interaction including
contact 5062 is a light tap on touch-sensitive surface 451, or a very light, continuously
maintained contact.
[00194]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 while the second tactile output setting is active and
a contact intensity between thresholds ITO and ITL is detected, no display operation is
performed. In this example, while the second tactile output setting is active, there is no
display operation associated with the detected intensity level. In this example there is no
tactile output generated in response to detecting the contact, but in some embodiments a
tactile output is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in response to
detecting the contact, but in some embodiments a sound is generated.
[00195]          Figure 5CC illustrates a second tactile output setting being active, and a user
interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram
5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD, corresponding to
contact 5062. For example, the user interaction including contact 5062 is a medium-intensity,
continuously maintained contact (e.g., a contact with intensity between thresholds ITL and
ITD).
[00196]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
                                                   60

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 while the second tactile output setting is active and
a contact intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD is detected, a first display operation is
performed. In some embodiments a different display operation is performed. In this example,
a folder in the Macintosh HD directory is selected and a display operation is performed to
visually distinguish the folder from other un-selected folders in the same directory (e.g., so as
to indicate that further user inputs on touch-sensitive surface 451 will affect the selected
object, for example a lateral movement of the contact on touch-sensitive surface 451 will
cause user interface object 5004-6 to be moved on the display, while pressing harder on
touch-sensitive surface 451 will cause a contextual menu to be displayed). In this example
there is a first tactile output 5066 generated in conjunction with performing the display
operation, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated, or a different tactile output
is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in conjunction with performing the
display operation, but in some embodiments a sound is generated. In some embodiments a
particular sound is generated in conjunction with tactile output 5066 (e.g., the first tactile
output). In some embodiments, a quick tap on touch sensitive surface 451 (between
thresholds ITL and ITD that ends within a predetermined time period) causes a primary
activation operation to be performed, such as opening the "users" folder represented by icon
5004-6, while a maintained contact on touch sensitive surface 451 (between thresholds ITL
and ITD that does not end within a predetermined time period) enables other operations to be
performed (e.g., moving user interface object 5004-6).
[00197]           Figure 5DD illustrates a second tactile output setting being active, and a user
interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram
5010-A illustrates a detected intensity above threshold ITD, corresponding to contact 5062.
For example, the user interaction including contact 5062 is a high-intensity, short-duration
contact (e.g., a contact with intensity above threshold ITD).
[00198]           Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 while the second tactile output setting is active and
a contact intensity above threshold ITD is detected, a second display operation is performed.
In some embodiments a different display operation is performed. In this example, it is desired
to view options relating to a particular folder in the Macintosh HD directory, and a display
operation is performed to display a menu 5064 of options relating to the folder. In this
                                                   61

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
example there is a second tactile output 5068 generated in conjunction with performing the
display operation, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated, or a different
tactile output is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in conjunction with
performing the display operation, but in some embodiments a sound is generated. In some
embodiments a particular sound is generated in conjunction with tactile output 5068 (e.g., the
second tactile output), and in some embodiments, the particular sound associated with tactile
output 5068 is distinct from a sound associated with another other type of tactile output (e.g.,
tactile output 5066).
[00199]          Figure 5EE illustrates region chart 5070 that indicates a type of region in user
interface 5002-A that focus selector 5013 is displayed over. A first region is configured to
perform particular display operations in response to the detection of particular types of inputs
on touch-sensitive surface 451, and a second region is configured to perform at least one
different display operation in response to the detection of particular types of inputs on touch
sensitive surface 451. For example, the first region performs a first display operation in
response to detecting a "light press" on touch-sensitive surface 451, and performs a second
display operation in response to detecting a "deep press" on surface 451, while the second
region performs a third display operation in response to detecting a "light press" on touch
sensitive surface 451, and does not perform any display operation in response to detecting a
"deep press" on surface 451. In some embodiments, regions are further characterized by one
or more tactile output operations performed in conjunction with display operations.
[00200]          Figure 5EE illustrates focus selector 5013 displayed over a first region, and a
user interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity
diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD,
corresponding to contact 5062. For example, the user interaction including contact 5062 is a
medium-intensity, continuously maintained contact (e.g., a contact with intensity between
thresholds ITL and ITD).
[00201]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 (defined as being of the first region type), and a
contact intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD, a first display operation is performed. In
some embodiments a different display operation is performed. In this example, a folder in the
Macintosh HD directory is selected and a display operation is performed to visually
                                                  62

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
distinguish the folder from other un-selected folders in the same directory. In this example
there is a third tactile output 5072 generated in conjunction with performing the display
operation, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated, or a different tactile output
is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in conjunction with performing the
display operation, but in some embodiments a sound is generated. In some embodiments a
particular sound is generated in conjunction with tactile output 5072 (e.g., the third tactile
output).
[00202]          Figure 5FF illustrates focus selector 5013 displayed over a first region, and a
user interaction including contact 5062 detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity
diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity above threshold ITD, corresponding to contact
5062. For example, the user interaction including contact 5062 is a high-intensity, short
duration contact (e.g., a contact with intensity above threshold ITD).
[00203]          Focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed over draggable object 5004-6, of
user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus selector 5013 over the region
corresponding to draggable object 5004-6 (defined as being of the first region type), and a
contact intensity above threshold ITD, a second display operation is performed. In this
example, it is desired to view options relating to a particular folder in the Macintosh HD
directory, and a display operation is performed to display a menu 5064 of options relating to
the folder. In this example there is a first tactile output 5066 generated in conjunction with
performing the display operation, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated or a
different tactile output is generated. In this example there is no sound generated in
conjunction with performing the display operation, but in some embodiments a sound is
generated in conjunction with tactile output 5066 (e.g., the first tactile output).
[00204]          Figure 5GG illustrates focus selector 5013 is displayed over a second region
(as noted in region chart 5070), and a user interaction that includes contact 5074 is detected
on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity
between thresholds ITL and ITD, corresponding to contact 5074. For example, the user
interaction including contact 5074 is a medium-intensity, continuously maintained contact
(e.g., a contact with intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD).
[00205]          Figure 5HH also illustrates that focus selector 5013 is shown to be displayed
over file view control object 5008-1, of user interface 5002-B. In response to detecting focus
selector 5013 over the region corresponding to file view control object 5008-1 (defined as
                                                     63

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
being of the second region type), and a contact intensity above threshold ITL and below
threshold ITD, a third display operation is performed. In this example, file view control object
5008-1 is activated and the third display operation changes the view of the contents of the
"Macintosh HD" directory from being shown in list view (e.g., in Figure 5GG), to being
shown in icon view. In this example there is a (fourth) tactile output 5076 generated in
conjunction with performing the display operation, but in some embodiments no tactile
output is generated or a different tactile output is generated (e.g., a third tactile output). In this
example there is no sound generated in conjunction with performing the display operation,
but in some embodiments a sound is generated in conjunction with tactile output 5076 (e.g.,
the fourth tactile output).
[00206]          Figure 511 illustrates focus selector 5013 displayed over file view control
object 5008-1 of the second region type, and a user interaction including contact 5074
detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected
intensity above threshold ITD, corresponding to contact 5062. For example, the user
interaction including contact 5062 is a high-intensity, short-duration contact (e.g., a contact
with intensity above threshold ITD). In this example, while the focus selector 5013 is detected
over an object of the second region type, there is no display operation associated with the
detected intensity level. In this example there is a second tactile output 5068 generated in
conjunction with performing the display operation, but in some embodiments no tactile
output is generated, or a different tactile output is generated. In this example there is no sound
generated in conjunction with performing the display operation, but in some embodiments a
sound is generated. In some embodiments a particular sound is generated in conjunction with
tactile output 5068 (e.g., the second tactile output), and in some embodiments, the particular
sound associated with tactile output 5068 is distinct from a sound associated with another
other type of tactile output (e.g., tactile output 5066).
[00207]          Figure 5JJ illustrates that focus selector 5013 is displayed over a control object
5008-4 of a third region type (as noted in region chart 5070), and a user interaction that
includes contact 5078 is detected on touch-sensitive surface 451. Intensity diagram 5010-A
illustrates a detected intensity between thresholds ITL and ITD, corresponding to contact
5078. For example, the user interaction including contact 5074 is a medium-intensity,
continuously maintained contact (e.g., a contact with an intensity between thresholds ITL and
ITD).  In response to detecting the intensity level, no display operation is performed. In this
                                                    64

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
example there is a third tactile output 5072 generated in response to detecting the intensity
level of contact 5078, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated, or a different
tactile output is generated. In some embodiments a particular sound is generated in
conjunction with tactile output 5072 (e.g., the third tactile output), and in some embodiments,
a particular sound associated with tactile output 5072 is distinct from a sound associated with
another other type of tactile output (e.g., a tactile output that indicates that .
[00208]          Figure 5KK illustrates an increase in intensity detected at contact 5078.
Intensity diagram 5010-A illustrates a detected intensity above threshold ITD, corresponding
to contact 5078. For example, the user interaction including contact 5062 is a high-intensity,
short-duration contact (e.g., a contact with intensity above threshold ITD ). In this example, in
response to detecting the intensity level, no display operation is performed. In this example
there is a second tactile output 5068 generated in response to detecting the intensity level of
contact 5078, but in some embodiments no tactile output is generated, or a different tactile
output is generated. In some embodiments a particular sound is generated in conjunction with
tactile output 5068 (e.g., the second tactile output), and in some embodiments, a particular
sound associated with tactile output 5068 is distinct from a sound associated with another
other type of tactile output.
[00209]          Figure 5LL illustrates an exemplary settings user interface or control panel
5080 for changing one or more tactile outputs and/or one or more activation criteria in
accordance with some embodiments. For example, control panel 5080 has one or more
control objects 5082 for adjusting the magnitude of a first tactile output 5084. In this
example, the magnitude control objects 5082 are discrete control objects that each correspond
to a particular setting, but in some embodiments, the magnitude of first tactile output 5084
can be adjusted using a continuous control object such as control object 5086. Control object
5086 allows for an adjustment of the duration of first tactile output 5084. In some
embodiments the duration of the first tactile output can be adjusted using discrete control
objects such as control objects 5082.
[00210]          Figure 5LL also illustrates control objects corresponding to adjustment of first
activation criteria 5090. In some embodiments, activation criteria such as first activation
criteria 5090 include intensity threshold control objects 5092. In some embodiments,
intensity threshold control objects 5092 are tied to control objects 5082 for adjusting the
magnitude of a tactile output. In some embodiments, the magnitude of first tactile output
                                                    65

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
5084 and the intensity threshold of first activation criteria 5090 are both adjusted using one or
more continuous control objects (e.g., a slider bar that adjusts both settings simultaneously).
While the above description pertains to a first tactile output 5084 and first activation criteria
5090, in some embodiments the same principles apply to one or more other tactile outputs
and activation criteria. In some embodiments, a respective tactile output setting has a
corresponding activation criteria setting. In some embodiments, a change to one setting (or
pair of settings), causes a change to another setting (or pair of settings).
[00211]         In some embodiments, as shown in Figure 5LL, control panel 5080 has a user
interface element 5098 for applying changes to one or more settings in control panel 5080. In
some embodiments, control panel 5080 has a user interface element 5094 for saving changes
to one or more settings and exiting control panel 5080. In some embodiments, control panel
5080 has a user interface element 5096 for canceling any changes made to one or more
settings and ceasing to display control panel 5080 in display 450.
[00212]         Figures 5MM-5NN illustrate exemplary settings user interfaces or control
panels for changing one or more tactile outputs and/or one or more activation criteria in
accordance with some embodiments.
[00213]          The settings user interfaces illustrated in Figures 5MM-5NN are used to adjust
settings for operations of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a trackpad). In Figures 5MM-5NN,
the settings user interfaces include options that are not directly related to intensity based user
inputs.
[00214]         In Figure 5MM, the intensity threshold control objects 5088 are radio buttons
that correspond to low, medium, and high intensity levels. Based on user selection of one of
the radio buttons, intensity thresholds (e.g., ITL and ITD) are changed. For example, ITL and
ITD  are increased in response to selection of the radio button that corresponds to high
intensity thresholds (from previous selection of the radio button that corresponds to low or
medium intensity thresholds).
[00215]         In Figure 5NN, the intensity threshold control object 5089 is a slider that
corresponds to a plurality of intensity levels. In Figure 5NN, the intensity threshold control
object 5089 provides more than three intensity levels so that a finer adjustment of the
intensity levels is allowed.
                                                    66

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[00216]         In some embodiments, tactile output settings are adjusted based on the user
interaction with the intensity threshold control object(s) (e.g., user selection of one of the
radio buttons in Figure 5MM or user adjustment of the slider in Figure 5NN). In some
embodiments, delay time between a light press and a deep press is adjusted based on the user
interaction with the intensity threshold control object(s).
[00217]          The settings user interfaces or control panels illustrated in Figures 5MM-5NN
provide simple user interfaces for easy adjustment of the intensity-based operations of the
electronic device, thereby reducing the number, extent, and/or nature of the inputs from the
user.
[00218]         Figures 500-5QQ are exemplary intensity diagrams in accordance with some
embodiments.
[00219]         Figure 500 illustrates three intensity diagrams (left, center, and right) in
accordance with some embodiments. The left intensity diagram in Figure 500 includes
multiple intensity thresholds, such as primary activation intensity threshold (e.g., an intensity
threshold that an intensity of a contact needs to exceed in order to activate a first operation),
primary activation release threshold (e.g., an intensity threshold that an intensity of a contact
needs to fall below, after exceeding the primary activation intensity threshold, in order to
cease the first operation), deep activation intensity threshold (e.g., an intensity threshold that
an intensity of a contact needs to exceed in order to activate a second operation in some
embodiments), and deep release intensity threshold (e.g., an intensity threshold that an
intensity of a contact needs to fall below, after exceeding the deep activation intensity
threshold, in order to cease the second operation).
[00220]          The center intensity diagram in Figure 500 illustrates an intensity of a contact
that changes over time (e.g., a light press input). In the center intensity diagram in Figure
500, the intensity of the contact increases over time to exceed the primary activation
intensity threshold, thereby activating the first operation. The center intensity diagram in
Figure 500 also illustrates that, subsequent to the intensity of the contact exceeds the
primary activation intensity threshold, the intensity of the contact decreases and falls below
the primary release intensity threshold.
[00221]          The right intensity diagram in Figure 500 illustrates an intensity of a contact
that changes over time and exceeds the deep activation intensity threshold (e.g., a deep press
                                                   67

  WO 2016/144577                                                                    PCT/US2016/019913
input). In some embodiments, when the intensity of the contact exceeds the deep activation
intensity threshold, the second operation (e.g., a deep press operation) is activated.
[00222]            In some cases, users unintentionally press the touch-sensitive surface with
high intensity (e.g., a deep press input) without an intention to activate the second operation
(e.g., a deep press operation). The unintentional deep press input may be due to variation in
perception of intensity from person to person, variation in finger strength from person to
person, variation in perception of intensity for an individual over time, and/or variation in
intensity for an individual over time (e.g., decreased intensity due to fatigue or increased
intensity due to reduced sensitivity of the individual), etc. An unintentional activation of the
second operation (e.g., a deep press operation) is inefficient, wastes time, and degrades the
user experience. Thus, it is important to reduce "unintentional" activations of the second
operation (e.g., a deep press operation).
[00223]            The intensity diagrams in Figures 5PP-5QQ illustrate features that reduce
unintentional activation of a deep press operation.
[00224]            Figure 5PP illustrates three intensity diagrams (left, center, and right). The
left intensity diagram in Figure 5PP illustrates a decaying intensity threshold offset for the
deep activation intensity threshold that decreases over time. In some embodiments, the
decaying intensity threshold offset decreases from the time at which an intensity of a contact
satisfies a lower activation intensity threshold (e.g., primary activation intensity threshold in
Figure 500). In some embodiments, the decaying intensity threshold offset decreases after a
predetermined duration (e.g., 10 ms, 20 ms, 30 ms, 40 ms, 50 ms, 60 ms, 70 ms, 80 ms, 90
ms, 100 ms, I10 ms, 120 ms, 130 ms, 140 ms, 150 ms, 160 ms, 170 ms, 180 ms, 190 ms, 200
ms, 300 ms, 400 ms, 500 ms, etc.) after the time at which an intensity of a contact satisfies
the lower activation intensity threshold. In some embodiments, the decaying intensity
threshold offset decreases in accordance with a predefined time constant (e.g., 0.1 s, 0.2 s, 0.3
s, 0.4 s, 0.5 s, 0.6 s, 0.7 s, 0.8 s, 0.9 s, 1.0 s, 1.1 s, 1.2 s, 1.3 s, 1.4 s, 1.5 s, 1.6 s, 1.7 s, 1.8 s,
 1.9 s, 2 s, 3 s, 4 s, 5 s, etc). In some embodiments, the offset starts from a high intensity
threshold. When this decaying intensity threshold offset is used, an intensity of a contact
needs to exceed the increased initial threshold to activate a deep press operation. Thus, this
decaying intensity threshold offset prevents a quick high intensity press input from activating
a deep press operation.
                                                        68

  WO 2016/144577                                                                     PCT/US2016/019913
[00225]           The center intensity diagram in Figure 5PP illustrates an intensity threshold
offset for the deep activation intensity threshold that trails an intensity of a contact (e.g.,
"trailing force" intensity threshold offset in Figure 5PP, which trails the "input force" of a
contact in Figure 5PP) in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, the
trailing force intensity offset is determined based on an intensity of the contact over time. For
example, the trailing force intensity threshold offset in the center intensity diagram in Figure
5PP is determined by processing intensity of the contact with a low pass filter (e.g., with a
predefined time constant (e.g., 0.1 s, 0.2 s, 0.3 s, 0.4 s, 0.5 s, 0.6 s, 0.7 s, 0.8 s, 0.9 s, 1.0 s, 1.1
s, 1.2 s, 1.3 s, 1.4 s, 1.5 s, 1.6 s, 1.7 s, 1.8 s, 1.9 s, 2 s, 3 s, 4 s, 5 s, etc). When this trailing
force intensity threshold offset is used, the deep activation intensity threshold is increased as
an intensity of a contact increases (e.g., when a user applies higher intensity while dragging a
contact). Thus, this trailing force intensity threshold offset reduces activation of a deep press
operation by a gradual increase in intensity of a contact over time (e.g., during a drag).
[00226]           The right intensity diagram in Figure 5PP illustrates that a first offset that
decreases over time (e.g., the decaying intensity threshold offset described with respect to the
left intensity diagram in Figure 5PP), a second offset that changes over time based on an
intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the trailing force intensity threshold
offset described with respect to the center intensity diagram in Figure 5PP), and/or a sum of
the first offset and the second offset (e.g., a weighted sum of the first offset and the second
offset, with equal or different weights) may be used to reduce unintentional activation of a
deep press operation.
[00227]          Figure 5QQ illustrates two intensity versus time diagrams (top and bottom).
The top intensity versus time diagram in Figure 5QQ illustrates that a dynamic (time varying)
intensity threshold 5102 includes a sum of the first offset and the second offset. In the top
intensity diagram in Figure 5QQ, an intensity 5202 of a contact does not exceed the intensity
threshold 5102, and thus a deep press operation is not activated.
[00228]           The bottom intensity diagram in Figure 5QQ illustrates that another dynamic
(time varying) intensity threshold 5104. The intensity threshold 5104 is offset from the
intensity threshold 5102 by an intensity threshold offset for a user that has been determined
based on past inputs from the user. For example, for a user who has a tendency to provide
high intensity inputs, the intensity threshold offset is increased (e.g., by the heavy clicker
offset in Figure 5QQ) to prevent unintentional activation of a deep press operation. In some
                                                        69

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
embodiments, the intensity offset for a user is a time-independent offset for a particular input
(e.g., the intensity offset for a user does not change during the course of the particular input,
although other intensity offsets for the deep activation intensity threshold, such as the first
offset and the second offset, may change over time during the course of the particular input).
[00229]          Figures 6A-6E illustrate a flow diagram of a method 600 of enabling
interaction with one or more control objects in a user interface, in accordance with some
embodiments. The method 600 is performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure
3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface,
and one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on
or integrated with the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch
sensitive surface. Some operations in method 600 are, optionally, combined and/or the order
of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00230]          As described below, the method 600 provides an intuitive way to interact with
one or more control objects in a user interface. The method reduces the number, extent,
and/or nature of the inputs from a user when interacting with one or more control objects in a
user interface, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery
operated electronic devices, enabling a user to interact with one or more control objects in a
user interface faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between
battery charges.
[00231]          The device displays (602) on the display, a user interface of a first software
application that includes one or more draggable objects (e.g., file icons, folder icons, calendar
entries, such as folder icon 5004-2 in Figure 5B) and one or more control objects distinct
from the one or more draggable objects (e.g., buttons, toolbars, menus, such as file view
control object 5008-1 in Figure 5B). While the device displays the user interface of the first
software application, the device performs at least the following operations.
[00232]          The device detects (604) a contact (e.g., contact 5016 in Figure 5C) on the
touch-sensitive surface at a first location while a focus selector is displayed over a first
draggable object of the one or more draggable objects displayed on the display.
[00233]          After detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface at the first location,
the device detects (606) a movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a
second location that corresponds to a first control object of the one or more control objects
                                                   70

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
displayed on the display (e.g., movement 5020 in Figure 5D from location 5016 to location
5018 on touch-sensitive surface 451).
[00234]           In some embodiments, in response to detecting movement of the contact from
the first location to the second location, and in accordance with a determination that the
contact at the first location does not satisfy the object selection criteria, the device moves
(608) the focus selector to the first control object in accordance with the movement of the
contact across the touch-sensitive surface to the first control object without moving the first
draggable object to the first control object (e.g., if the contact at the first location does not
satisfy the object selection criteria, the first draggable object is not selected and the focus
selector moves without the first draggable object). In some embodiments, in accordance with
a determination that the contact at the second location satisfies the second intensity criteria,
the device performs (610) the first predetermined operation that corresponds to activation of
the first control object without moving the first draggable object to the first control object
(e.g., if the focus selector moves over to file view control object 5008-1, icon view control
object 5008-1 is activated and contents of the directory is displayed in an icon view). In some
embodiments, the method includes, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the
second location satisfies the first intensity criteria, performing the first predetermined
operation that corresponds to activation of the first control object.
[00235]           In response to detecting movement of the contact from the first location to the
second location, and in accordance with a determination that the contact at the first location
satisfies object selection criteria, the device moves (612) the first draggable object to the first
control object in accordance with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive
surface to the first control object (e.g., Figure 5D).
[00236]           In some embodiments, in response to moving the first draggable object to the
first control object, and in accordance with a determination that the first software application
is configured to perform the first predetermined operation in response to detecting a contact
at the second location that satisfies the first intensity criteria, the device visually distinguishes
(614) the first control object prior to determining that the contact satisfies the first intensity
criteria (e.g., file view control object 5008-1 is visually distinguished in Figure 5D).
[00237]           Furthermore, in some embodiments, the device detects (616) a movement of
the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a fourth location that corresponds to a second
control object of the one or more control objects (e.g., Figure 5N). In some embodiments, in
                                                     71

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
accordance with a determination that the first software application is not configured to
perform a predetermined operation in response to detecting a contact at the fourth location
that satisfies the first intensity criteria, the device foregoes (618) visually distinguishing the
second control object (e.g., in Figure 5N, control object 5008-3 is not visually distinguished).
[00238]           In accordance with a determination that the contact at the second location
satisfies first intensity criteria, the device performs (620) a first predetermined operation that
corresponds to activation of the first control object (e.g., displaying contents of the directory
in an icon view, as shown in Figure 5E).
[00239]           In some embodiments, the user interface includes (622) multiple distinct
portions, a first portion of the multiple distinct portions (e.g., region 5022) includes the first
control object, and performing the first predetermined operation that corresponds to
activation of the first control object includes changing a second portion (e.g., region 5024),
distinct from the first portion, of the multiple distinct portions. In some embodiments,
changing the second portion includes forgoing a change to the first portion. For example, in
Figure 5E, performing the first predetermined operation updates region 5024. In some
embodiments, changing the second portion includes maintaining the first portion.
[00240]           In some embodiments, the first software application is a calendar application
(624), the user interface of the first software application includes multiple time-period user
interface elements (e.g., control objects) in the first portion, the one or more draggable
objects are one or more calendar entry objects (e.g., one or more graphical representations of
calendar events), a respective time-period user interface element of the multiple time-period
user interface elements corresponds to a predefined unit of time (e.g., day, week, month,
and/or year), the second portion of the user interface of the first software application, prior to
the determination that the contact at the second location satisfies the first intensity criteria,
includes a calendar view that corresponds to a first unit of time (e.g., a day view), and
changing the second portion includes replacing the calendar view that corresponds to a first
unit of time with a calendar view that corresponds to a second unit of time that is distinct
from the first unit of time (e.g., a month view).
[00241]           In some embodiments, the first software application is a file system navigation
application (626), also called a file manager or a file browser (e.g., Finder, Windows
Explorer, and File Explorer) (e.g., the user interface of a file system navigation application in
Figure 5B). In some embodiments, the user interface of the first software application includes
                                                      72

  WO 2016/144577                                                                PCT/US2016/019913
multiple file view control objects (e.g., an object to show files as icons, and an object to show
files in a list) in the first portion, the one or more draggable objects are one or more of file
icons and/or folder icons, and a respective file view control object of the multiple file view
control objects corresponds to a distinct file view type (e.g., an icon view, a list view, a
column view, and/or a cover view). In some embodiments, the second portion of the user
interface, prior to the determination that the contact at the second location satisfies the first
intensity criteria, includes a file view of a first file view type (e.g., a list view), and changing
the second portion includes replacing the file view of the first file view type with a file view
of a second file view type that is distinct from the file view of the first file view type (e.g., an
icon view).
[00242]            In some embodiments, the device, subsequent to moving the first draggable
object to the first control object and changing the second portion, detects (628) a movement
of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a third location that corresponds to the
changed second portion on the display. For example, changing the second portion of the
display includes replacing the calendar view from a day view to a month view. In another
example, changing the second portion of the display includes replacing display of contents in
a first directory with display of contents in a second directory (e.g., Figure 5H). Furthermore,
in some embodiments, the device moves (630) the first draggable object to a location, in the
changed second portion, that corresponds to the third location on the touch-sensitive surface
in accordance with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to the third
location. Furthermore, in some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the
contact at the third location does not satisfy the object selection criteria, the device drops
(632) the first draggable object at the location, in the changed second portion, that
corresponds to the third location on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., Figure 51).
[00243]            In some embodiments, the object selection criteria include (634) second
intensity criteria. For example, a contact with intensity between ITL and ITD is used to select
a draggable object.
[00244]            In some embodiments, the device concurrently displays (636) an entirety of
the user interface of the first software application with a portion of a user interface of a
second software application adjacent to the user interface of the first software application
(e.g., user interface 5002-A and user interface 5002-B in Figure 5Q). In some embodiments,
the user interface of the first software application is in contact with the portion of the user
                                                     73

  WO 2016/144577                                                                PCT/US2016/019913
interface of the second software application. In some embodiments, the user interface of the
first software application appears to overlie a portion of the user interface of the second
software application.
[00245]          Furthermore, in some embodiments, in accordance with the determination that
the contact at the first location satisfies the object selection criteria, the device detects (638) a
movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to a fifth location that corresponds
to the displayed portion of the user interface of the second software application on the display
(e.g., Figure 5S). In some embodiments, the device moves (640) the first draggable object to
the displayed portion of the user interface of the second software application in accordance
with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to the fifth location. In
some embodiments, the contact continues to satisfy the object selection criteria during the
movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface to the fifth location.
[00246]          In some embodiments, in response to a determination that the contact at the
fifth location satisfies the first intensity criteria (e.g., intensity of contact satisfying threshold
ITD in Figure 5T), the device replaces (642) a concurrent display of the entirety of the user
interface of the first software application and the portion of the user interface of the second
software application with a concurrent display of an entirety of the user interface of the
second software application and a portion of the user interface of the first software
application adjacent to the user interface of the second software application (e.g., user
interface 5002-B and user interface 5002-A in Figure 5V). In some embodiments, the user
interface of the second software application appears to overlie a portion of the user interface
of the first software application.
[00247]          In some embodiments, in response to a determination that the contact at the
fifth location does not satisfy the first intensity criteria, the device determines (644) a time
period during which the contact remains at the fifth location, and in response to a
determination that the time period satisfies time-based activation criteria (e.g., focus selector
5013 remains over user interface 5002-B and satisfies the time-based activation criteria, as
shown in Figure 5U), the device replaces the concurrent display of the entirety of the user
interface of the first software application and the portion of the user interface of the second
software application with the concurrent display of an entirety of the user interface of the
second software application and the portion of the user interface of the first software
                                                      74

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
application adjacent to the user interface of the second software application (e.g., user
interface 5002-B and user interface 5002-A in Figure 5V).
[00248]         It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 6A-6E have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 700, 800, and 900) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 600 described above with respect to Figures
6A-6E. For example, the contacts, inputs, user interface objects, intensity thresholds, focus
selectors, and criteria described above with reference to method 600 optionally have one or
more of the characteristics of the contacts, inputs, user interface objects, intensity thresholds,
focus selectors, and criteria described herein with reference to other methods described herein
(e.g., methods 700, 800, and 900). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00249]         Figures 7A-7D illustrate a flow diagram of a method 700 of performing
operations in conjunction with generating tactile outputs, in accordance with some
embodiments. The method 700 is performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure
3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface,
and one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the device includes one or more tactile output generators. In some
embodiments, the display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on or
integrated with the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch
sensitive surface. Some operations in method 700 are, optionally, combined and/or the order
of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00250]         As described below, the method 700 provides an intuitive way to perform
operations in conjunction with generating tactile outputs. The method reduces the cognitive
burden on a user when performing operations in conjunction with generating tactile outputs,
thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated electronic
devices, enabling a user to perform operations in conjunction with generating tactile outputs
faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
                                                  75

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
[00251]           The device displays (702), on the display of the electronic device, a user
interface of a first software application. While displaying the user interface of the first
software application, the device performs at least the following operations.
[00252]           The device detects (704) a first input (e.g., a tap gesture) that includes a
contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the first input
is associated with a respective region of the user interface of the first software application
that is associated with a first operation (e.g., a response to a "light press" or "left click") and a
second operation (e.g., a response to a "deep press," "right click," or "option + click"). In
some embodiments, the first operation is a first display operation and the second operation is
a second display operation.
[00253]          In response to detecting the first input (e.g., a tap gesture), and in accordance
with a determination that a first tactile output setting is active (e.g., silent trackpad mode) for
the first input, the device performs (706) the first operation without generating a tactile
output. In some embodiments, the first tactile output setting is active for the first input, based
on a location of the contact, a location of the focus selector corresponding to the contact, or a
system-wide setting or condition. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5Y, tactile output
setting chart 5060 indicates that the first tactile output setting is active. In response to
detecting the input associated with contact 5062, having an intensity level below threshold
ITL, the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is highlighted in display 450 (an exemplary first
display operation is performed). Figure 5Y also illustrates performance of this operation
without generating a tactile output.
[00254]          In response to detecting the first input, and in accordance with a determination
that a second tactile output setting is active (e.g., non-silent trackpad mode) for the first input,
the device forgoes (708) performing the first operation. For example, as illustrated in Figure
5BB, tactile output setting chart 5060 indicates that the second tactile output setting is active.
In response to detecting the input associated with contact 5062, having an intensity level
below threshold ITL, the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is not highlighted in display 450 (an
exemplary first display operation is not performed). Figure 5BB also illustrates performance
of this operation without generating a tactile output.
[00255]           The device detects (710) a second input (e.g., a light press) that includes a
contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the second
input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software
                                                    76

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
application that is associated with the first operation (e.g., a response to a "light press" or
"left click") and the second operation (e.g., a response to a "deep press," ".rightclick," or
"option + click") and the second input is different from the first input.
[00256]          In response to detecting the second input, and in accordance with a
determination that the second tactile output setting is active (e.g., non-silent trackpad mode)
for the second input, the device performs (712) the first operation in conjunction with
generating a first tactile output associated with the first operation. For example, as illustrated
in Figure 5CC, tactile output setting chart 5060 indicates that the second tactile output setting
is active. In response to detecting the input associated with contact 5062, having an intensity
level above threshold ITL, and below threshold ITD, the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is
highlighted in display 450 (an exemplary first display operation is performed). Figure 5CC
also illustrates performance of this operation in conjunction with generating a first tactile
output.
[00257]          In some embodiments, the first tactile output (714) lasts for less than a
predetermined time. In some embodiments, duration of the first tactile output is independent
of duration of the contact remaining on the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments,
the second tactile output lasts for less than the predetermined time. In some embodiments,
duration of a respective tactile output is less than 0.5 seconds. In some embodiments, the
duration of the respective predetermined tactile output is less than 0.4 seconds. In some
embodiments, the duration of the respective predetermined tactile output is less than 0.3
seconds. In some embodiments, the duration of the respective predetermined tactile output is
less than 0.2 seconds. In some embodiments, the duration of the respective predetermined
tactile output is less than 0.1 seconds.
[00258]          In response to detecting the second input, and in accordance with a
determination that the first tactile output setting is active (e.g., silent trackpad mode) for the
second input, the device performs (716) the second operation. In some embodiments, the
device performs the second operation instead of the first operation, or without performing the
first operation, and/or without generating the first tactile output. For example, as illustrated in
Figure 5Z, tactile output setting chart 5060 indicates that the first tactile output setting is
active. In response to detecting the input associated with contact 5062, having an intensity
level above threshold ITL, and below threshold ITD, a menu associated with the "Users"
folder (object 5004-6) is displayed in display 450 (an exemplary second display operation is
                                                   77

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
performed). Figure 5Z also illustrates performance of this operation without generating a first
tactile output and without performing the first display operation (e.g., highlighting the
"Users" folder).
[00259]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second input, in
accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second
input (e.g., silent trackpad mode), the device performs (718) the second operation without
performing the first operation.
[00260]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second input, in
accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second
input (e.g., silent trackpad mode), the device forgoes (720) generation of the first tactile
output.
[00261]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second input, in
accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second
input (e.g., silent trackpad mode), the device forgoes (722) generation of a second tactile
output associated with the second operation.
[00262]          In some embodiments, the device detects (724) a third input (e.g., a deep
press) that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact
included in the third input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the
first software application that is associated with the first operation (e.g., a response to a "light
press" or "left click") and the second operation (e.g., a response to a "deep press," "right
click," or "option + click") and the third input is different from the first input and the second
input. In some embodiments, the contact in the second input and the contact in the third input
are (726) a same contact that is continuously detected on the touch-sensitive surface between
the second input and the third input. In some embodiments, the second input satisfies (728) a
first intensity threshold and the contact in the third input satisfies a second intensity threshold
that is higher than the first intensity threshold.
[00263]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third input (e.g., a deep
press), and in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is active
(e.g., non-silent trackpad mode) for the third input, the device performs (730) the second
operation in conjunction with generating a second tactile output associated with the second
operation. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5DD, tactile output setting chart 5060
indicates that the second tactile output setting is active. In response to detecting the input
                                                   78

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
associated with contact 5062, having an intensity level above threshold ITD, a menu
associated with the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is displayed in display 450 (an exemplary
second display operation is performed). Figure 5Z also illustrates performance of this
operation in conjunction with generating a second tactile output and without performing the
first display operation (e.g., highlighting the "Users" folder).
[00264]           In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third input (e.g., a deep
press), and in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active
(e.g., silent trackpad mode) for the third input, the device forgoes (732) generation of the
second tactile output. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third input and in
accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active (e.g., silent
trackpad mode), the device forgoes (734) repeating the second operation. For example, as
illustrated in Figure 5AA, tactile output setting chart 5060 indicates that the first tactile
output setting is active. In response to detecting the input associated with contact 5062,
having an intensity level above threshold ITD, the "Users" folder is not highlighted (an
exemplary first display operation is not performed), and a menu associated with the "Users"
folder (object 5004-6) is not displayed in display 450 (an exemplary second display operation
is not performed). Figure 5AA also illustrates forgoing performance of the second operation
in conjunction with forgoing generating any tactile output and without performing the first
display operation (e.g., highlighting the "Users" folder).
[00265]           In some embodiments, the second tactile output includes (736) an audible
component that is louder than an audible component of the first tactile output. In some
embodiments, the first tactile output has (738) a first tactile output intensity and the second
tactile output has a second tactile output intensity that is greater than the first tactile output
intensity.
[00266]           It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 7A-7D have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 600, 800, and 900) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 700 described above with respect to Figures
7A-7D. For example, the contacts, inputs, operations, tactile output settings, tactile output
                                                   79

  WO 2016/144577                                                                PCT/US2016/019913
intensity, intensity thresholds, regions and tactile outputs described above with reference to
method 700 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, inputs,
operations, tactile output settings, tactile output intensity, intensity thresholds, regions and
tactile outputs described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g.,
methods 600, 800, and 900). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00267]          Figures 8A-8F illustrate a flow diagram of a method 800 of providing tactile
outputs based on one or more regions of a user interface, in accordance with some
embodiments. The method 800 is performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure
3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface,
and one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface. In
some embodiments, the display is a touch-screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on
or integrated with the display. In some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch
sensitive surface. Some operations in method 800 are, optionally, combined and/or the order
of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[00268]          As described below, the method 800 provides an intuitive way to provide
tactile outputs based on one or more regions of a user interface. The method reduces the
cognitive burden on a user when providing tactile outputs based on one or more regions of a
user interface, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery
operated electronic devices, enabling a user to provide tactile outputs based on one or more
regions of a user interface faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time
between battery charges.
[00269]           The device displays (802), on the display of the electronic device, a user
interface that includes a first region that is configured to initiate a first display operation in
response to an input (e.g., a light press) (optionally, an input associated with the first region)
that satisfies first activation criteria and initiate a second display operation in response to an
input (e.g., a deep press) (optionally, an input associated with the first region) that satisfies
second activation criteria distinct from the first activation criteria, and a second region that is
distinct from the first region, wherein the second region is configured to initiate a third
display operation in response to an input (optionally, an input associated with the second
region) that satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., a light press) and the second region is
not configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input (optionally, an input
associated with the second region) that satisfies the second activation criteria (e.g., a deep
                                                      80

  WO 2016/144577                                                                 PCT/US2016/019913
press). For example, the first region is responsive to inputs that satisfy one or more first
activation criteria and is also responsive to inputs that satisfy one or more second activation
criteria, and the second region is responsive to inputs that satisfy the first activation criteria
and is not responsive to inputs that satisfy the second activation criteria.
[00270]           In some embodiments, the first activation criteria include (804) first intensity
criteria. In some embodiments, the first intensity criteria include a first intensity threshold. In
some embodiments, the second activation criteria include (806) second intensity criteria
distinct from the first intensity criteria. In some embodiments, the second intensity criteria
include a second intensity threshold that is higher than the first intensity threshold.
[00271]           In some embodiments, the first region is (808) a region that includes a user
interface control and the second region is a region that does not include any user interface
control. In some embodiments, the user interface includes (810) a plurality of regions that are
configured to perform display operations in response to inputs that satisfy the second
activation criteria, and (all other) regions of the user interface that are outside of the plurality
of regions are not configured to perform display operations to inputs that satisfy the second
activation criteria. In some embodiments, the second activation criteria are correspond to a
unique form of input to which only certain controls and/or applications are configured to
respond. However, in order to maintain a consistent feel for the user interface, the input
device provides feedback to the user indicating that the second activation criteria have been
met even when the input corresponds to a location outside of the controls or applications that
are configured to respond to the second activation criteria.
[00272]           While displaying the user interface of the first software application, the device
performs at least the following operations. The device detects (812) a first input that includes
a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the first
input is associated with the first region of the user interface.
[00273]           In response to detecting the first input, and in accordance with a determination
that the first input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., a light press), the device performs
(814) the first display operation. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first
input, in accordance with the determination that the first input satisfies the first activation
criteria (e.g., a light press), the device concurrently generates (816) a tactile output of a third
type that is distinct from the tactile output of the first type while performing the first display
operation. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5EE, region chart 5070 indicates that a
                                                      81

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
detected contact is associated with the first region. In response to detecting the input
associated with contact 5062, having an intensity level above threshold ITL, and below
threshold ITD, the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is highlighted (an exemplary first display
operation is performed). Figure 5EE also illustrates performance of this operation in
conjunction with generating a third tactile output.
[00274]           In some embodiments, the tactile output of the third type is distinct from the
tactile output of a second type, described below. In some embodiments, the tactile output of
the third type (e.g., a tactile output indicating a light press) has less salience (818) than
salience of the tactile output of the first type (e.g., a tactile output for a deep operation) and
greater salience than salience of the tactile output of a second type (e.g., a tactile output
indicating absence of a deep operation). In some embodiments, the salience of a tactile output
includes one or more of: an amplitude of the tactile output (e.g., speed and force of a
displacement of the touch-sensitive surface) and a duration of the tactile output.
[00275]           In response to detecting the first input, and in accordance with a determination
that the first input satisfies the second activation criteria (e.g., a deep press), the device
performs (820) the second display operation and concurrently generating a tactile output of a
first type (e.g., a tactile output for a deep operation) while performing the second display
operation. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5FF, region chart 5070 indicates that a
detected contact is associated with the first region. In response to detecting the input
associated with contact 5062, having an intensity level above threshold ITD, a menu
associated with the "Users" folder (object 5004-6) is displayed (an exemplary second display
operation is performed). Figure 5FF also illustrates performance of this operation in
conjunction with generating a first tactile output. Figure 5FF also illustrates performance of
this operation without performing the first display operation (e.g., highlighting the "Users"
folder).
[00276]           The device detects (822) a second input that includes a contact detected on the
touch-sensitive surface, wherein the second input is distinct from the first input and the
contact included in the second input is associated with the second region of the user
interface.. For example, Figure 5GG illustrates a second input including contact 5074,
associated with the file view control object 5008-1, and region chart 5070 indicates that the
detected contact is associated with the second region.
                                                     82

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
[00277]          In response to detecting the second input, and in accordance with a
determination that the second input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., a light press), the
device performs (824) the third display operation. In some embodiments, in response to
detecting the second input and in accordance with the determination that the second input
satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., a light press), the device concurrently generates
(826) a tactile output of a fourth type that is distinct from the tactile output of the third type
while performing the third display operation. For example, as illustrated in Figure 5HH,
region chart 5070 indicates that a detected contact is associated with the second region. In
response to detecting the input associated with contact 5074, having an intensity level above
threshold ITL, and below threshold ITD, the file view control icon 5008-1 is selected and
region 5054 displays the contents of the "Macintosh HD" directory in an icon-view. Figure
5HH also illustrates performance of this operation in conjunction with generating a tactile
output of a fourth type. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second input and
in accordance with the determination that the second input satisfies the first activation criteria
(e.g., a light press), the device concurrently generates (828) a tactile output of the third type
while performing the third display operation.
[00278]          In response to detecting the second input, and in accordance with a
determination that the second input satisfies the second activation criteria (e.g., a deep press),
the device generates (830) a tactile output of a second type (e.g., a tactile output indicating
absence of a deep operation). In some embodiments, the tactile output of the second type is
distinct (832) from the tactile output of the first type. In some embodiments, the tactile output
of the second type is identical to the tactile output of the first type.
[00279]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the second input and in
accordance with the determination that the second input satisfies the second activation criteria
(e.g., a deep press), the device forgoes (834) performing the first display operation, the
second display operation, and the third display operation. For example, as illustrated in
Figure 511, region chart 5070 indicates that a detected contact is associated with the second
region. In response to detecting the input associated with contact 5074, having an intensity
level above threshold ITD, there is no display operation performed (e.g., there is no change in
the display of the contents of display 450, from Figure 5HH). Figure 511 also illustrates
forgoing performance of any display operation in conjunction with generating a tactile output
of the second type. For example, in Figure 511, the tactile output of the second type indicates
                                                       83

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
to the user of the device that there is no display operation associated with a "deep press"
detected while the cursor is over the icon file control object.
[00280]          In some embodiments, the tactile output of the second type (e.g., a tactile
output indicating absence of a deep operation) has less salience (836) than salience of the
tactile output of the first type (e.g., a tactile output for a deep operation).
[00281]          In some embodiments, the user interface includes (838) a third region that is
not configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input (associated with the
third region) that satisfies first activation criteria and is not configured to initiate any display
operation in response to an input (associated with the third region) that satisfies second
activation criteria distinct from the first activation criteria (e.g., the third region is not
responsive to inputs that satisfy the first activation criteria or the second activation criteria).
Furthermore, in some embodiments, the device detects (840) a third input that includes a
contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the contact included in the first input
is associated with the third region of the user interface.
[00282]           In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third input, and in
accordance with a determination that the third input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g.,
a light press), the device generates (842) a tactile output of the third type (e.g., a tactile output
indicating a light press). For example, as illustrated in Figure 5JJ, region chart 5070 indicates
that a detected contact is associated with the third region. In response to detecting the input
associated with contact 5078, having an intensity level above threshold ITL and below ITD,
there is no display operation performed. Figure 5JJ also illustrates forgoing performance of
any display operation in conjunction with generating a tactile output of the third type. For
example, in Figure 5JJ, the tactile output of the second type indicates to the user of the device
that there is no display operation associated with a "light press" detected while the cursor is
over control object 5008-4.
[00283]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third input, and in
accordance with a determination that the third input satisfies the second activation criteria
(e.g., a deep press), the device generates (844) a tactile output of the second type (e.g., a
tactile output indicating absence of a deep operation). For example, as illustrated in Figure
5KK, region chart 5070 indicates that a detected contact is associated with the third region. In
response to detecting the input associated with contact 5078, having an intensity level above
threshold ITD, there is no display operation performed. Figure 5KK also illustrates forgoing
                                                      84

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
performance of any display operation in conjunction with generating a tactile output of the
second type. For example, in Figure 5KK, the tactile output of the second type indicates to
the user of the device that there is no display operation associated with a "deep press"
detected while the cursor is over the control object 5008-4.
[00284]          Thus, in some embodiments, the tactile output associated with a light press
input is the same everywhere, while a tactile output associated with a deep press input is
different depending on whether the portion of the user interface corresponding to the deep
press input is configured to respond to the deep press input (e.g., so as to provide the user
with an indication of which user interface elements are responsive to a deep press input and
which user interface elements are not responsive to the deep press input).
[00285]          In some embodiments, the device detects (846) an occurrence of a predefined
event associated with the second region while the second region is not configured to initiate
any display operation in response to an input (associated with the second region) that satisfies
the second activation criteria (e.g., a deep press). In some embodiments, in response to
detecting the occurrence of the predefined event, the device configures (848) the second
region to initiate a fourth display operation in response to an input that satisfies the second
activation criteria.
[00286]          In some embodiments, while the second region is configured to initiate the
fourth display operation in response to an input that satisfies the second activation criteria,
the device detects (850) a fourth input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the third input is associated with the second region of
the user interface. In some embodiments, in response to detecting the fourth input, and in
accordance with a determination that the fourth input satisfies the third activation criteria
(e.g., a light press), the device performs (852) the third display operation. In some
embodiments, in response to detecting the fourth input, and in accordance with a
determination that the fourth input satisfies the second activation criteria (e.g., a deep press),
the device performs (854) the fourth display operation and concurrently generates a tactile
output of the first type (e.g., a tactile output for a deep operation) while performing the
second display operation.
[00287]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first input and in
accordance with a determination that the first input does not satisfy the first activation criteria
and does not satisfy the second activation criteria, the device forgoes (856) generating any
                                                     85

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
tactile output, and in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a
determination that the second input does not satisfy the first activation criteria and does not
satisfy the second activation criteria, the device forgoes (858) generating any tactile output.
[00288]          In some embodiments, the user interface is generated (860) by a first
application running on the device (e.g., a user facing application such as the user interface
generating portion of an operating system, a file browser, a web browser, a mail application,
etc.) and the determination as to whether to provide the first tactile output or the second
tactile output when the second set of activation criteria are satisfied is made by a second
application running on the device (e.g., firmware that controls a tactile output mechanism)
that is distinct from the first application.
[00289]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 8A-8F have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 600, 700, and 900) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 800 described above with respect to Figures
8A-8F. For example, the contacts, inputs, operations, activation criteria, salience, intensity
thresholds, regions, tactile output types, and tactile outputs described above with reference to
method 700 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts, inputs,
operations, activation criteria, salience, intensity thresholds, regions, tactile output types, and
tactile outputs described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g.,
methods 600, 700, and 900). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00290]          Figures 9A-9C illustrate a flow diagram of a method 900 of configuring tactile
outputs and activation criteria, in accordance with some embodiments. The method 900 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, one or more sensors to detect
intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface, and one or more tactile output
generators. In some embodiments, the display is a touch-screen display and the touch
sensitive surface is on or integrated with the display. In some embodiments, the display is
separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 900 are, optionally,
combined and/or the order of some operations is, optionally, changed.
                                                    86

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
[00291]          As described below, the method 900 provides an intuitive way to configure
tactile outputs and activation criteria. The method reduces the number, extent, and/or nature
of the inputs from a user when configuring tactile outputs and activation criteria, thereby
creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated electronic devices,
enabling a user to configure tactile outputs and activation criteria faster and more efficiently
conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[00292]          The device is configured to provide (902) a first tactile output (e.g., a light
press tactile output) in response to detecting that first activation criteria have been met (e.g.,
light press activation criteria), the first activation criteria including a criterion that is met
when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases above a first intensity
threshold (e.g., selection of draggable object 5004-6 in response to intensity between ITL and
ITD, as shown in Figure 5CC). The device is configured to provide (904) a second tactile
output (e.g., a deep press tactile output) in response to detecting that second activation criteria
have been met (e.g., deep press activation criteria), the second activation criteria including a
criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases
above a second intensity threshold, distinct from the first intensity threshold (e.g., display of
menu 5064 in response to intensity above ITD, as shown in Figure 5DD).
[00293]          The device displays (906), on the display, a settings user interface (e.g., the
user interface illustrated in Figure 5MM or Figure 5NN) that includes one or more control
objects, wherein the settings user interface is configured to adjust operations of the device
that use: the one or more sensors that detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive
surface, and/or the one or more tactile output generators.
[00294]          While displaying the settings user interface, the device detects (908) an input
for a first control object of the one or more control objects (e.g., an input for a single,
combined contact intensity/tactile output setting control). In some embodiments, the first
control object is (910) a discrete control object that corresponds to a particular setting. For
example, a check box that corresponds to a high, medium or low intensity/output setting (e.g.,
control objects 5088 in Figure 5MM). In some embodiments, the first control object is (912)
a continuous control object that corresponds to three or more settings. For example, a virtual
slider or a virtual dial that corresponds to a range of intensity/output settings, from a high
setting to a low setting (e.g., control object 5089 in Figure 5NN).
                                                     87

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00295]          In accordance with the detected input for the first control object, the device
changes (914) the second intensity threshold (e.g., increasing or decreasing a magnitude of
the second intensity threshold), and changes (916) the second tactile output (e.g., increasing
or decreasing a magnitude, duration, frequency, salience, and/or other output characteristic of
the second tactile output). In some embodiments, the second intensity threshold and the
second tactile output are changed in response to detecting the input for the first control object.
In some embodiments, the second intensity threshold and the second tactile output are
changed as soon as the input for the first control object is detected. In some embodiments, the
second intensity threshold and the second tactile output are changed by activating an "accept
changes," "set," "exit," or other similar icon in the settings user interface.
[00296]          In some embodiments, in accordance with the detected input for the first
control object, the device changes (918) the first intensity threshold (e.g., increasing or
decreasing a magnitude of the first intensity threshold). In some embodiments, the magnitude
of the first intensity threshold is changed in a same way and/or amount as the magnitude of
the second intensity threshold (e.g., the first intensity threshold and the second intensity
threshold are both increased by 15% or are both decreased by 15%, depending on the change
in the setting indicated by the detected user input on the first control object). In some
embodiments, the first intensity threshold is changed in response to detecting the input for the
first control object. In some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is changed as soon as
the input for the first control object is detected. In some embodiments, the first intensity
threshold is changed by activating an "accept changes," "set," "exit," or other similar icon in
the settings user interface.
[00297]          In some embodiments, in accordance with the detected input for the first
control object, the device changes (920) the first tactile output (e.g., increasing or decreasing
a magnitude, duration, frequency, salience, and/or other output characteristic of the first
tactile output). In some embodiments, the characteristics of the first tactile output are changed
in a same way and/or amount as the characteristics of the second tactile output (e.g., the
amplitude of the first tactile output and the second tactile output are both increased by 15% or
are both decreased by 15%, depending on the change in the setting indicated by the detected
user input on the first control object). In some embodiments, the first tactile output is changed
in response to detecting the input for the first control object. In some embodiments, the first
tactile output is changed as soon as the input for the first control object is detected. In some
                                                    88

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
embodiments, the first tactile output is changed by activating an "accept changes," "set,"
"exit," or other similar icon in the settings user interface.
[00298]          In some embodiments, in addition to the first tactile output and the second
tactile output, the device is configured to provide other tactile outputs in response to detecting
events associated with movement of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., providing
tactile output "detents" in response to detecting movement on the touch-sensitive surface that
corresponds to movement of a cursor on the display along a slider or over a boundary in a
displayed user interface). Furthermore, in accordance with the detected input for the first
control object, the device changes (922) the other tactile outputs (e.g., increasing or
decreasing a magnitude, duration, frequency, salience, and/or other output characteristic of
the other tactile outputs that the device is configured to provide). In some embodiments, the
characteristics of the first tactile output, the second tactile output and the other tactile outputs
are all changed in the same manner (e.g., all are increased in amplitude by 15% or all are
decreased in amplitude by 15%, depending on the setting selected by the user with the input
on the first control object). In some embodiments, the other tactile outputs are changed in
response to detecting the input for the first control object. In some embodiments, the other
tactile outputs are changed as soon as the input for the first control object is detected. In some
embodiments, the other tactile outputs are by activating an "accept changes, "set, "exit," or
other similar icon in the settings user interface.
[00299]          In some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is lower than the second
intensity threshold. Thus, in some embodiments, the intensity of a new contact detected on
the touch-sensitive surface will have to pass through the first intensity threshold to reach the
second intensity threshold. Furthermore, the second activation criteria includes a time-based
criterion that is dependent upon a time at which the first activation criteria is met, and in
accordance with the detected input for the first control object, the device changes (924) the
time-based criterion. In some embodiments, the device increases the length of a delay time
period (e.g., the delay time between the time when the first activation criteria are met and the
time when the second intensity threshold is met). In some embodiments, the device decreases
the length of a delay time. In some embodiments, when the second intensity threshold is
increased, a delay time in the time-based criterion is lengthened, and the duration, amplitude,
and/or salience of the second tactile output are increased. In some embodiments, when the
second intensity threshold is decreased, a delay time in the time-based criterion is shortened,
                                                    89

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
and the duration, amplitude, and/or salience of the second tactile output are decreased. In
some embodiments, the device has a reduced-sensitivity time period after the first activation
criteria are met, during which the second intensity threshold is temporarily increased, and this
reduced-sensitivity time period is increased or decreased in accordance with the detected
input for the first control object. In some embodiments, the time-based criterion is changed in
response to detecting the input for the first control object. In some embodiments, the time
based criterion is changed as soon as the input for the first control object is detected. In some
embodiments, the time-based criterion is changed by activating an "accept changes," "set,"
"exit," or other similar icon in the settings user interface.
[00300]          In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes a delay time period
that occurs after the time at which the first activation criteria were met, and the time-based
criterion is met (926) after the delay time period has elapsed. In some embodiments, the time
based criterion is met upon completion of the delay time period. For example, during the
delay time period, the second activation criteria are not met, even if an intensity of the contact
is above the second intensity threshold, to prevent accidental activation of the second tactile
output.
[00301]          In some embodiments, the second activation criteria include (928) a criterion
that is met when the intensity of the contact increases by more than a predefined amount
(e.g., and/or increases above the second intensity threshold) after the delay time period has
elapsed. For example, in order to meet the second activation criteria, after the delay time
period, the user has to increase the intensity of the contact by pressing harder.
[00302]          In some embodiments, the second activation criteria include (930) a criterion
that is met when the intensity of the contact increases from an intensity below the second
intensity threshold to an intensity above the second intensity threshold after the delay time
period has elapsed. For example, in order to meet the second activation criteria, if the contact
intensity is already above the second intensity threshold at the end of the delay time period,
the user has to back off and press again by reducing the intensity of their contact below the
second intensity threshold and then increasing the intensity of their contact above the second
intensity threshold.
[00303]          In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes (936, Figure 9C) one
or more of. a first offset that decreases over time (e.g., the decaying intensity threshold offset
illustrated in the left intensity diagram in Figure 5PP); and a second offset that changes over
                                                   90

  WO 2016/144577                                                                  PCT/US2016/019913
time based on an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the trailing force
intensity threshold offset illustrated in the center intensity diagram in Figure 5PP). In some
embodiments, the first offset decreases over time from the time at which the first activation
criteria are satisfied. In some embodiments, the first offset decreases over time after a
predefined duration from the time at which the first activation criteria are satisfied.
[00304]          In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes (938) an intensity
offset for a user that is determined based on multiple separate inputs (e.g., inputs that are not
continuous extensions of one another) on the touch-sensitive surface by the user. For
example, as explained above with respect to Figure 5QQ, for a user who has a tendency to
provide high intensity inputs, an intensity offset for the user is used to increase the deep
activation intensity threshold, thereby reducing unintentional activation of a deep press
operation. In some embodiments, the intensity offset for the user is determined based on the
user's historical inputs (e.g., prior inputs). In some embodiments, the intensity offset for the
user is determined prior to detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive surface that is
processed to determine whether to provide the second tactile output.
[00305]          In some embodiments, the intensity offset for the user is determined (940)
based on one or more of: peak intensities of a first predefined number of separate click inputs
on the touch-sensitive surface by the user (e.g., peak intensities of clicks made by the user),
and peak intensities of a second predefined number of separate drag inputs on the touch
sensitive surface by the user (e.g., peak intensities during drag inputs made by the user). For
example, peak intensities of the prior 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 click inputs by the
user, and/or peak intensities during the prior 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 90 drag inputs
by the user are used to determine the intensity offset for the user in some embodiments. In
some embodiments, peak intensities of click inputs that satisfy the first intensity threshold
and that do not satisfy the second intensity threshold are used for determining the intensity
offset for the user (e.g., peak intensities of click inputs that satisfy the second intensity
threshold are excluded). In some embodiments, peak intensities of click inputs that remain in
contact with the touch-sensitive surface for a duration longer than a predefined duration
threshold (e.g., 0.1 s, 0.2 s, 0.3 s, 0.4 s, 0.5 s, 0.6 s, 0.7 s, 0.8 s, 0.9 s, 1 s, 2 s, 3 s, 4 s, 5 s,
etc.) are excluded from determining the intensity offset for the user. In some embodiments,
the first predefined number is the same as the second predefined number. In some
embodiments, the first predefined number is distinct from the second predefined number.
                                                      91

  WO 2016/144577                                                                 PCT/US2016/019913
[00306]          In some embodiments, the peak intensities of prior click inputs by the user are
compared to a reference intensity of a click input (e.g., an average or median intensity of
click inputs made by multiple users) to determine the intensity offset for the user. In some
embodiments, the peak intensities of prior drag inputs by the user are compared to a reference
intensity of a drag input (e.g., an average or median intensity of drag inputs made by multiple
users) to determine the intensity offset for the user. In some embodiments, the reference
intensity of a click input and/or the reference intensity of a drag input are/is adjusted based on
the user input on the settings user interface. For example, when a low deep press intensity is
selected (e.g., from the settings user interface illustrated in Figure 5MM), a reference
intensity of a low intensity click input and/or a reference intensity of a low intensity drag
input are used. Similarly, when a high deep press intensity is selected, a reference intensity of
a high intensity click input and/or a reference intensity of a high intensity drag input are
used.
[00307]           In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes (932, Figure 9B) a
reduced-sensitivity time period that occurs after the time at which the first activation criteria
are satisfied, and during the reduced-sensitivity time period, the second intensity threshold is
increased. For example, during the reduced-sensitivity period, the second intensity threshold
is temporarily increased to prevent accidental activation of the second tactile output.
[00308]          In some embodiments, the device is configured (934) to respond to the
satisfaction of the first activation criteria with a first type of operation (e.g., a light/primary
activation), and the device is configured to respond to the satisfaction of the second activation
criteria with a second type of operation (e.g., a deep/alternative activation) that is different
from the first type of operation.
[00309]          In some embodiments, while displaying a first user interface and while the
device is in a first haptic output mode of a plurality of haptic output modes, the device
provides a first haptic output (e.g., a light press haptic output) in response to detecting that
first activation criteria (e.g., light press activation criteria) for the first haptic output mode
have been met, the first activation criteria for the first haptic output mode including a
criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases
above a first intensity threshold. In some embodiments, the device also provides a second
haptic output (e.g., a deep press haptic output) in response to detecting that second activation
criteria (e.g., deep press activation criteria) for the first haptic output mode have been met,
                                                      92

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
the second activation criteria for the first haptic output mode including a criterion that is met
when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases above a second
intensity threshold.
[00310]          In some embodiments, the device displays a settings user interface for
controlling operation of the touch-sensitive surface, the settings user interface including a
plurality of control objects, and while displaying the settings user interface, the device detects
an input associated with a control object of the plurality of control objects in the settings user
interface (e.g., an intensity/output setting control).
[00311]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the input associated with the
single control in the settings user interface, the device exits the first haptic output mode and
enters a second haptic output mode, of the plurality of haptic output modes, that is distinct
from the first haptic output mode, and while displaying a second user interface and while the
device is in the second haptic output mode, the device provides a third haptic output (e.g., a
deep press haptic output) in response to detecting that second activation criteria (e.g., deep
press activation criteria) for the second haptic output mode have been met, the second
activation criteria for the second haptic output mode including a criterion that is met when an
intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface increases above a third intensity
threshold, wherein the third intensity threshold is distinct from the second intensity threshold,
and a salience (e.g., magnitude, duration, frequency) of the third haptic output is distinct from
the second haptic output.
[00312]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 9A-9C have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 600, 700, and 800) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 900 described above with respect to Figures
9A-9C. For example, the contacts, inputs, operations, tactile output settings, tactile output
intensity, intensity thresholds, contact intensity, time-based criteria, control objects, and
tactile outputs described above with reference to method 900 optionally have one or more of
the characteristics of the contacts, inputs, operations, tactile output settings, tactile output
intensity, intensity thresholds, contact intensity, time-based criteria, control objects, and
                                                   93

  WO 2016/144577                                                           PCT/US2016/019913
tactile outputs described herein with reference to other methods described herein (e.g.,
methods 600, 700, and 800). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00313]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 10 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1000 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 10 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00314]          As shown in Figure 10, an electronic device 1000 includes a display unit 1002
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1006 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004; optionally, one or more tactile output units 1007
configured to provide tactile outputs, and a processing unit 1008 coupled with the display
unit 1002, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 and the one or more sensor units 1006. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 includes: a display enablement unit 1010, a
contact detection unit 1012, a contact movement detection unit 1014, an object movement
unit 1016, an operation performance unit 1018, a focus-selector movement unit 1020, a
portion changing unit 1022, an object distinguishing unit 1024, an intensity determining unit
 1026, an object selection determination unit 1028, and a time measurement unit 1030.
[00315]          The processing unit 1008 is configured to: enable display (e.g., with the
display enablement unit 1010) of a user interface of a first software application that includes
one or more draggable objects and one or more control objects distinct from the one or more
draggable objects; and, while enabling display of the user interface of the first software
application: detect a contact (e.g., with the contact detection unit 1012) on the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1004 at a first location while a focus selector is displayed over a first draggable
object of the one or more draggable objects displayed on the display unit 1002. The
processing unit 1008 is also configured to: after detecting the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1004 at the first location, detect a movement of the contact (e.g., with the contact
movement detection unit 1014) across the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to a second
                                                   94

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
location that corresponds to a first control object of the one or more control objects displayed
on the display unit 1002; and, in response to detecting movement of the contact from the first
location to the second location, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the first
location satisfies object selection criteria (e.g., with object selection determination unit 1028),
move the first draggable object (e.g., with the object movement unit 1016) to the first control
object in accordance with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit
 1004 to the first control object; and, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the
second location satisfies first intensity criteria (e.g., with intensity determination unit 1026),
perform a first predetermined operation (e.g., with the operation performance unit 1018) that
corresponds to activation of the first control object.
[00316]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to: in
accordance with a determination that the contact at the first location does not satisfy the
object selection criteria (e.g., with object selection determination unit 1028), move the focus
selector (e.g., with the focus-selector movement unit 1020) to the first control object in
accordance with the movement of the contact across the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to
the first control object without moving the first draggable object to the first control object;
and, in accordance with a determination that the contact at the second location satisfies the
second intensity criteria (e.g., with intensity determination unit 1026), perform the first
predetermined operation (e.g., with the operation performance unit 1018) that corresponds to
activation of the first control object without moving the first draggable object to the first
control obj ect.
[00317]          In some embodiments, a first portion of the multiple distinct portions includes
the first control object, and the user interface includes multiple distinct portions, and the
processing unit 1008 is further configured to: perform the first predetermined operation (e.g.,
with the operation performance unit 1018) that corresponds to activation of the first control
object including changing a second portion (e.g., with the portion changing unit 1022),
distinct from the first portion, of the multiple distinct portions.
[00318]          In some embodiments, the first software application is a calendar application,
the user interface of the first software application includes multiple time-period user interface
elements in the first portion, the one or more draggable objects are one or more calendar
entry objects, a respective time-period user interface element of the multiple time-period user
interface elements corresponds to a predefined unit of time, the second portion of the user
                                                    95

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
interface of the first software application, prior to the determination that the contact at the
second location satisfies the first intensity criteria (e.g., with the intensity determination unit
 1026), includes a calendar view that corresponds to a first unit of time, and changing the
second portion includes replacing the calendar view (e.g., with the display enablement unit
 1010) that corresponds to a first unit of time with a calendar view that corresponds to a
second unit of time that is distinct from the first unit of time.
[00319]          In some embodiments, the first software application is a file system navigation
application, the user interface of the first software application includes multiple file view
control objects in the first portion, the one or more draggable objects are one or more of file
icons and/or folder icons, a respective file view control object of the multiple file view
control objects corresponds to a distinct file view type, the second portion of the user
interface, prior to the determination that the contact at the second location satisfies the first
intensity criteria (e.g., with intensity determination unit 1026), includes a file view of a first
file view type and changing the second portion (e.g., with portion changing unit 1022)
includes replacing the file view (e.g., with display enablement unit 1010) of the first file view
type with a file view of a second file view type that is distinct from the file view of the first
file view type.
[00320]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to:
subsequent to moving the first draggable object to the first control object and changing the
second portion: detect a movement of the contact (e.g., with the contact movement detection
unit 1014) across the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to a third location that corresponds to
the changed second portion on the display unit 1002; move the first draggable object (e.g.,
with the object movement unit 1016) to a location, in the changed second portion, that
corresponds to the third location on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 in accordance with
the movement of the contact (e.g., with the contact movement detection unit 1014) across the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to the third location; and, in accordance with a
determination that the contact at the third location does not satisfy the object selection criteria
(e.g., with the object selection determination unit 1028), drop the first draggable object at the
location (e.g., with the display enablement unit 1010), in the changed second portion, that
corresponds to the third location on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004.
[00321]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to: in
response to moving the first draggable object to the first control object, and in accordance
                                                    96

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
with a determination that the first software application is configured to perform the first
predetermined operation in response to detecting a contact at the second location that satisfies
the first intensity criteria, visually distinguish (e.g., with the object distinguishing unit 1024)
the first control object prior to determining that the contact satisfies the first intensity criteria
(e.g., with intensity determination unit 1026).
[00322]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to: detect
a movement of the contact (e.g., with contact movement detection unit 1014) across the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to a fourth location that corresponds to a second control
object of the one or more control objects; and, in accordance with a determination that the
first software application is not configured to perform a predetermined operation in response
to detecting a contact at the fourth location that satisfies the first intensity criteria (e.g., with
intensity determination unit 1026), forgo visually distinguishing (e.g., with object
distinguishing unit 1024) the second control object.
[00323]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to:
concurrently enable display (e.g., with display enablement unit 1010) of an entirety of the
user interface of the first software application with a portion of a user interface of a second
software application adjacent to the user interface of the first software application; and in
accordance with the determination that the contact at the first location satisfies the object
selection criteria (e.g., with object selection determination unit 1028): detect a movement of
the contact (e.g., with contact movement detection unit 1014) across the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1004 to a fifth location that corresponds to the displayed portion of the user
interface of the second software application on the display unit 1002; move the first
draggable object (e.g., with object movement unit 1016) to the displayed portion of the user
interface of the second software application in accordance with the movement of the contact
across the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 to the fifth location; and in response to a
determination that the contact at the fifth location satisfies the first intensity criteria (e.g.,
with the intensity determination unit 1026), enable replacement of a concurrent display (e.g.,
with display enablement unit 1010) of the entirety of the user interface of the first software
application and the portion of the user interface of the second software application with a
concurrent display of an entirety of the user interface of the second software application and a
portion of the user interface of the first software application adjacent to the user interface of
the second software application.
                                                     97

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00324]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to: in
response to a determination that the contact at the fifth location does not satisfy the first
intensity criteria: determine a time period during which the contact remains at the fifth
location (e.g., with time measurement unit 1030); and in response to a determination that the
time period satisfies time-based activation criteria (e.g., with time measurement unit 1030),
enable replacement of the concurrent display (e.g., with display enablement unit 1010) of the
entirety of the user interface of the first software application and the portion of the user
interface of the second software application with the concurrent display of an entirety of the
user interface of the second software application and the portion of the user interface of the
first software application adjacent to the user interface of the second software application.
[00325]          The operations described above with reference to Figures 6A-6E are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures 1A-1B or Figure 10. For
example, contact-detection operation 604, contact movement detection operation 606, and
object-movement operation 612 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event
recognizer 180, and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a
contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event
information to application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1
compares the event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a
first contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the
device) corresponds to a predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a
user interface, or rotation of the device from one orientation to another. When a respective
predefined event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler
 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses
or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In
some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what
is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill
in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in
Figures lA-1B.
[00326]          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 11 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1100 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
                                                    98

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 11 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00327]           As shown in Figure 11, an electronic device 1100 includes a display unit 1102
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1104 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1106 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1104, one or more tactile output units 1124 configured to
provide tactile outputs, and a processing unit 1108 coupled with the display unit 1102, the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1104 and the one or more sensor units 1106. In some
embodiments, the processing unit 1108 includes: a display enablement unit 1110, an input
detection unit 1112, a tactile output generation unit 1114, a contact detection unit 1116, an
operation performance unit 1118, a tactile output setting determination unit 1120, and
intensity determining unit 1122.
[00328]           The processing unit 1108 is configured to: enable display (e.g., with display
enablement unit 1110) of a user interface of a first software application; and, while enabling
display of the user interface of the first software application: detect a first input (e.g., with
input detection unit 1112) that includes a contact detected (e.g., with contact detection unit
 1116) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1104, wherein the contact included in the first input
is associated with a respective region of the user interface of the first software application
that is associated with a first operation and a second operation.
[00329]           The processing unit 1108 is also configured to: in response to detecting the
first input (e.g., with input detection unit 1112) and in accordance with a determination that a
first tactile output setting (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit 1120) is active
for the first input, perform the first operation (e.g., operation performance unit 1118) without
generating a tactile output; and in accordance with a determination that a second tactile
output setting is active for the first input, forgo performing the first operation.
[00330]           The processing unit 1108 is also configured to: detect a second input (e.g.,
with input detection unit 1112) that includes a contact detected (e.g., with contact detection
unit 1116) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1104, wherein the contact included in the
second input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the first software
                                                     99

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
application that is associated with the first operation and the second operation and the second
input is different from the first input; and in response to detecting the second input (e.g., with
input detection unit 1112) and in accordance with a determination that the second tactile
output setting is active (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit 1120) for the
second input, perform the first operation (e.g., operation performance unit 1118) in
conjunction with generating a first tactile output (e.g., with tactile output generation unit
 1114) associated with the first operation; and            in accordance with a determination that
the first tactile output setting is active (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit
 1120) for the second input, perform the second operation (e.g., operation performance unit
 1118).
[00331]           In some embodiments, the processing unit 1108 is further configured to: detect
a third input (e.g., with input detection unit 1112) that includes a contact detected (e.g., with
contact detection unit 1116) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1104, wherein the contact
included in the third input is associated with the respective region of the user interface of the
first software application that is associated with the first operation and the second operation
and the third input is different from the first input and the second input; and in response to
detecting the third input and in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output
setting is active (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit 1120) for the third input,
perform the second operation (e.g., operation performance unit 1118) in conjunction with
generating a second tactile output (e.g., with tactile output generation unit 1114) associated
with the second operation; and in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output
setting is active (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit 1120) for the third input,
forgo generation of the second tactile output.
[00332]           In some embodiments, the second tactile output includes an audible
component that is louder than an audible component of the first tactile output. In some
embodiments, the first tactile output has a first tactile output intensity and the second tactile
output has a second tactile output intensity that is greater than the first tactile output intensity.
In some embodiments, the processing unit 1108 is further configured to, in response to
detecting the third input (e.g., with input detection unit 1112), in accordance with the
determination that the first tactile output setting is active (e.g., with tactile output setting
determination unit 1120), forgo repeating the second operation.
                                                     100

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
[00333]         In some embodiments, the contact in the second input and the contact in the
third input are a same contact that is continuously detected (e.g., with contact detection unit
 1116) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1104 between the second input and the third input.
In some embodiments, the contact in the second input satisfies a first intensity threshold (e.g.,
using intensity determination unit 1122) and the contact in the third input satisfies a second
intensity threshold that is higher than the first intensity threshold. In some embodiments, the
processing unit 1108 is further configured to, in response to detecting the second input (e.g.,
with input detection unit 1112), in accordance with the determination that the first tactile
output setting is active for the second input (e.g., with tactile output setting determination unit
 1120), perform the second operation without performing the first operation (e.g., operation
performance unit 1118).
[00334]         In some embodiments, the processing unit 1108 is further configured to, in
response to detecting the second input (e.g., with input detection unit 1112), in accordance
with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active (e.g., with tactile output
setting determination unit 1120) for the second input, forgo generation of the first tactile
output. In some embodiments, the processing unit 1108 is further configured to, in response
to detecting the second input (e.g., with input detection unit 1112), in accordance with the
determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second input (e.g., with
tactile output setting determination unit 1120), forgo generation of a second tactile output
associated with the second operation. In some embodiments, the first tactile output lasts for
less than a predetermined time.
[00335]         The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[00336]         The operations described above with reference to Figures 7A-7D are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-lB or Figure 11. For
example, input-detection operation 704, and tactile output generation operation 712 are,
optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event handler 190.
Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and
event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application 136-1. A
respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event information to
                                                   101

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first location on
the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the device) corresponds to a predefined
event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation of the device
from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub-event is detected,
event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the detection of the event
or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater 176 or object updater
 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190
accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the application.
Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other processes
can be implemented based on the components depicted in Figures 1A-1B.
[00337]           In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 12 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1200 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 12 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00338]           As shown in Figure 12, an electronic device 1200 includes a display unit 1202
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1204 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1206 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1204; and a processing unit 1208 coupled with the display
unit 1202, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1204 and the one or more sensor units 1206. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 includes: a display enablement unit 1210, an
input detection unit 1212, a tactile output generation unit 1214, a contact detection unit 1216,
a display operation performance unit 1218, an activation criteria determination unit 1220, an
intensity determination unit 1222 and an event occurrence detection unit 1224.
[00339]           The processing unit 1208 is configured to: enable display (e.g., with display
enablement unit 1110) of a user interface that includes a first region that is configured to
initiate a first display operation in response to an input that satisfies first activation criteria
and initiate a second display operation in response to an input that satisfies second activation
                                                   102

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
criteria distinct from the first activation criteria, and a second region that is distinct from the
first region, wherein the second region is configured to initiate a third display operation in
response to an input that satisfies the first activation criteria and the second region is not
configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input that satisfies the second
activation criteria.
[00340]          While enabling display of the user interface, the processing unit 1208 is also
configured to detect a first input (e.g., with the input detection unit 1212) that includes a
contact detected (e.g., with the contact detection unit 1216) on the touch-sensitive surface
unit 1204, wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with the first region of
the user interface.
[00341]          The processing unit 1208 is also configured to: in response to detecting the
first input, in accordance with a determination that the first input satisfies the first activation
criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit 1220), perform the first display
operation (e.g., with the display operation performance unit 1218); and in accordance with a
determination that the first input satisfies the second activation criteria, perform the second
display operation and concurrently generate a tactile output of a first type (e.g., with the
tactile output generation unit 1214) while performing the second display operation.
[00342]          The processing unit 1208 is also configured to: detect a second input (e.g.,
with the input detection unit 1212) that includes a contact detected (e.g., with the contact
detection unit 1216) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1204, wherein the second input is
distinct from the first input and the contact included in the second input is associated with the
second region of the user interface.
[00343]          The processing unit 1208 is also configured to: in response to detecting the
second input, in accordance with a determination that the second input satisfies the first
activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit 1220), perform the third
display operation (e.g., with the display operation performance unit 1218), and in accordance
with a determination that the second input satisfies the second activation criteria, generate
(e.g., with the tactile output generation unit 1214) a tactile output of a second type. In some
embodiments, the tactile output of the second type is distinct from the tactile output of the
first type.
[00344]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 is further configured to: in
response to detecting the first input and in accordance with the determination that the first
                                                    103

  WO 2016/144577                                                                PCT/US2016/019913
input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), concurrently generate (e.g., with the tactile output generation unit 1214) a tactile
output of a third type that is distinct from the tactile output of the first type while performing
the first display operation (e.g., with the display operation performance unit 1218).
[00345]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 is further configured to: in
response to detecting the second input, in accordance with the determination that the second
input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), concurrently generate a tactile output of a fourth type (e.g., with the tactile output
generation unit 1214) that is distinct from the tactile output of the third type while performing
the third display operation (e.g., with the display operation performance unit 1218).
[00346]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 is further configured to: in
response to detecting the second input, in accordance with the determination that the second
input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), concurrently generating a tactile output of the third type (e.g., with the tactile output
generation unit 1214) while performing the third display operation (e.g., with the display
operation performance unit 1218).
[00347]          In some embodiments, the user interface includes a third region that is not
configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input that satisfies first
activation criteria and is not configured to initiate any display operation in response to an
input that satisfies second activation criteria distinct from the first activation criteria, and the
processing unit 1208 is further configured to: detect a third input (e.g., with the input
detection unit 1212) that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1204,
wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with the third region of the user
interface, and in response to detecting the third input, in accordance with a determination that
the third input satisfies the first activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria
determination unit 1220), generate a tactile output of the third type (e.g., with the tactile
output generation unit 1214), and in accordance with a determination that the third input
satisfies the second activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), generate a tactile output of the second type (e.g., with the tactile output generation unit
 1214).
[00348]          In some embodiments, the tactile output of the second type has less salience
than salience of the tactile output of the first type. In some embodiments, the tactile output of
                                                     104

  WO 2016/144577                                                               PCT/US2016/019913
the third type has less salience than salience of the tactile output of the first type and greater
salience than salience of the tactile output of the second type. In some embodiments, the first
activation criteria include first intensity criteria. In some embodiments, the second activation
criteria include second intensity criteria distinct from the first intensity criteria. In some
embodiments, the first region is a region that includes a user interface control and the second
region is a region that does not include any user interface control.
[00349]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 is further configured to: in
response to detecting the first input (e.g., with the input detection unit 1212), in accordance
with a determination that the first input does not satisfy the first activation criteria and does
not satisfy the second activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), forgo generating any tactile output, and in response to detecting the second input (e.g.,
with the input detection unit 1212), in accordance with a determination that the second input
does not satisfy the first activation criteria and does not satisfy the second activation criteria
(e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit 1220), forgo generating any tactile output.
[00350]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1208 is further configured to: detect
an occurrence of a predefined event associated with the second region while the second
region is not configured to initiate any display operation in response to an input that satisfies
the second activation criteria, in response to detecting the occurrence of the predefined event,
configure the second region to initiate a fourth display operation in response to an input that
satisfies the second activation criteria. Furthermore, in some embodiments, the processing
unit 1208 is further configured to: while the second region is configured to initiate the fourth
display operation in response to an input that satisfies the second activation criteria, detect a
fourth input (e.g., with the input detection unit 1212) that includes a contact detected on the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1204, wherein the contact included in the third input is associated
with the second region of the user interface, and in response to detecting the fourth input
(e.g., with the input detection unit 1212), in accordance with a determination that the fourth
input satisfies the third activation criteria (e.g., with the activation criteria determination unit
 1220), perform the third display operation, and in accordance with a determination that the
fourth input satisfies the second activation criteria, perform the fourth display operation and
concurrently generate a tactile output of the first type (e.g., with the tactile output generation
unit 1214) while performing the second display operation (e.g., with the display operation
performance unit 1218).
                                                     105

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
[00351]         In some embodiments, the user interface includes a plurality of regions that
are configured to perform display operations in response to inputs that satisfy the second
activation criteria, and regions of the user interface that are outside of the plurality of regions
are not configured to perform display operations to inputs that satisfy the second activation
criteria. In some embodiments, the user interface is generated by a first application running
on the device and the determination as to whether to provide the first tactile output or the
second tactile output when the second set of activation criteria are satisfied is made by a
second application running on the device that is distinct from the first application.
[00352]         The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[00353]         The operations described above with reference to Figures 8A-8F are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-1B or Figure 12. For
example, input-detection operation 812, and tactile output generation operation 820 are,
optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event handler 190.
Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and
event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application 136-1. A
respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event information to
respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first location on
the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the device) corresponds to a predefined
event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation of the device
from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub-event is detected,
event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the detection of the event
or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater 176 or object updater
 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190
accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the application.
Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other processes
can be implemented based on the components depicted in Figures lA-1B.
[00354]         In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 13 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1300 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
                                                   106

  WO 2016/144577                                                             PCT/US2016/019913
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 13 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described embodiments.
Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or separation
or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00355]          As shown in Figure 13, an electronic device 1300 includes a display unit 1302
configured to display a user interface, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 configured to
receive contacts, one or more sensor units 1306 configured to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304; one or more tactile output units 1332 configured to
provide tactile outputs; and a processing unit 1308 coupled with the display unit 1302, the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 the one or more sensor units 1306 and the one or more
tactile output units 1332. In some embodiments, the processing unit 1308 includes: a display
enablement unit 1310, an input detection unit 1312, a tactile output generation unit 1314, a
contact movement detection unit 1316, an operation performance unit 1318, an activation
criteria determination unit 1320, an intensity determination unit 1322, an intensity threshold
changing unit 1324, a tactile output changing unit 1326, a time-based criterion changing unit
 1328, and an event occurrence detection unit 1330.
[00356]           The one or more tactile output units 1332 are configured to: provide a first
tactile output in response to detecting that first activation criteria have been met, the first
activation criteria including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch
sensitive surface unit 1304 increases above a first intensity threshold and provide a second
tactile output in response to detecting that second activation criteria have been met, the
second activation criteria including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on
the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 increases above a second intensity threshold, distinct
from the first intensity threshold.
[00357]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1308 is configured to: provide a
first tactile output (e.g., with the tactile output generation unit 1314) in response to detecting
that first activation criteria have been met (e.g., with activation criteria determination unit
 1320), the first activation criteria including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 increases above a first intensity threshold
(e.g., using intensity determination unit 1322) and provide a second tactile output (e.g., with
                                                     107

  WO 2016/144577                                                              PCT/US2016/019913
the tactile output generation unit 1314) in response to detecting that second activation criteria
have been met (e.g., with activation criteria determination unit 1320), the second activation
criteria including a criterion that is met when an intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive
surface unit 1304 increases above a second intensity threshold, distinct from the first intensity
threshold (e.g., using intensity determination unit 1322).
[00358]          The processing unit 1308 is also configured to: enable display (e.g., with
display enablement unit 1308) of a settings user interface that includes one or more control
objects, wherein the settings user interface is configured to adjust operations of the device
that use: the one or more sensors that detect intensity of contacts (e.g., one or more sensor
units 1306) with the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304, and/or the one or more tactile output
generators (e.g., one or more tactile output units 1332). The processing unit 1308 is
configured to, while enabling display of the settings user interface: detect an input (e.g., with
input detection unit 1312) for a first control object of the one or more control objects, and in
accordance with the detected input for the first control object, change the second intensity
threshold (e.g., with intensity threshold changing unit 1324) and change the second tactile
output (e.g., with tactile output changing unit 1326).
[00359]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1308 is further configured to: in
accordance with the detected input for the first control object, change the first intensity
threshold (e.g., with intensity threshold changing unit 1324). In some embodiments, the
processing unit 1308 is further configured to: in accordance with the detected input for the
first control object, change the first tactile output (e.g., with tactile output changing unit
 1326).
[00360]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1308 is further configured to:
provide other tactile outputs (e.g., with tactile output generation unit 1314) in response to
detecting events associated with movement of a contact (e.g., with contact movement
detection unit 1316) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304, and in accordance with the
detected input for the first control object, change the other tactile outputs (e.g., with tactile
output changing unit 1326).
[00361]          In some embodiments, the first intensity threshold is lower than the second
intensity threshold, the second activation criteria includes a time-based criterion that is
dependent upon a time at which the first activation criteria is met, and the processing unit
 1308 is further configured to: in accordance with the detected input for the first control
                                                   108

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
object, change the time-based criterion (e.g., with time-based criterion changing unit 1328).
In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes a delay time period that occurs after
the time at which the first activation criteria were met, and the time-based criterion is met
after the delay time period has elapsed.
[00362]         In some embodiments, the second activation criteria include a criterion that is
met (e.g., using activation criteria determination unit 1320) when the intensity of the contact
increases by more than a predefined amount after the delay time period has elapsed. In some
embodiments, the second activation criteria include a criterion that is met (e.g., using
activation criteria determination unit 1320) when the intensity of the contact increases from
an intensity below the second intensity threshold to an intensity above the second intensity
threshold (e.g., using intensity determination unit 1322) after the delay time period has
elapsed.
[00363]         In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes a reduced-sensitivity
time period that occurs after the time at which the first activation criteria are satisfied, and
during the reduced-sensitivity time period, the second intensity threshold is increased. In
some embodiments, the device is configured to respond to the satisfaction of the first
activation criteria with a first type of operation (e.g., with operation performance unit 1318),
and the device is configured to respond to the satisfaction of the second activation criteria
with a second type of operation (e.g., with operation performance unit 1318) that is different
from the first type of operation.
[00364]         In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes one or more of: a first
offset that decreases over time; and a second offset that changes over time based on an
intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304.
[00365]         In some embodiments, the time-based criterion includes an intensity offset for
a user that is determined based on multiple separate inputs on the touch-sensitive surface unit
 1304 by the user.
[00366]         In some embodiments, the intensity offset for the user is determined based on
one or more of: peak intensities of a first predefined number of separate click inputs on the
touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 by the user, and peak intensities of a second predefined
number of separate drag inputs on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1304 by the user.
                                                   109

  WO 2016/144577                                                            PCT/US2016/019913
[00367]         In some embodiments, the first control object is a discrete control object that
corresponds to a particular setting and in some embodiments, the first control object is a
continuous control object that corresponds to three or more settings.
[00368]         The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[00369]         The operations described above with reference to Figures 9A-9C are,
optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures lA-1B or Figure 13. For
example, intensity-threshold changing operation 914, and tactile output changing operation
920 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event
handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive
display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application
 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event
information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a
first location on the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the device) corresponds to
a predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation
of the device from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub
event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the
detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater
 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments,
event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the
application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other
processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in Figures lA-1B.
[00370]         The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments
were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its
practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best use the invention and
various described embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use
contemplated.
                                                  110

1001861434
                                                Claims
1.       A method, comprising:
at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive surface and a display, wherein the electronic
device includes one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive
surface:
         displaying, on the display, a user interface of a first software application; and,
         while displaying the user interface of the first software application:
                 detecting a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region
of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least a first
operation;
                 in response to detecting the first input:
                          in accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is
active for the first input, performing the first operation without generating a tactile output;
and,
                          in accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting
is active for the first input, forgoing performing the first operation; and
                 detecting a second input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the second input is associated with the respective
region of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least the
first operation and the second input is different from the first input; and,
                 in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a determination
that the second tactile output setting is active for the second input, performing the first
operation in conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated with the first
operation.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein:
         the respective region of the user interface of the first software application that is
associated with the first operation and a second operation that is distinct from the first
operation; and
         the method includes, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a
determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second input, performing the
second operation.
                                                   111

1001861434
3.      The method of claim 2, comprising:
        detecting a third input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface,
wherein the contact included in the third input is associated with the respective region of the
user interface of the first software application that is associated with the first operation and
the second operation and the third input is different from the first input and the second input;
and,
        in response to detecting the third input:
                in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is
active for the third input, performing the second operation in conjunction with generating a
second tactile output associated with the second operation; and,
                in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active
for the third input, forgoing generation of the second tactile output.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the second tactile output includes an audible
component that is louder than an audible component of the first tactile output.
5.      The method of any of claims 3-4, wherein the first tactile output has a first tactile
output intensity and the second tactile output has a second tactile output intensity that is
greater than the first tactile output intensity.
6.      The method of any of claims 3-5, including, in response to detecting the third input, in
accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active, forgoing
repeating the second operation.
7.      The method of any of claims 3-6, wherein the contact in the second input and the
contact in the third input are a same contact that is continuously detected on the touch
sensitive surface between the second input and the third input.
8.      The method of any of claims 3-7, wherein the contact in the second input satisfies first
intensity threshold and the contact in the third input satisfies second intensity threshold that is
higher than the first intensity threshold.
                                                 112

1001861434
9.      The method of any of claims 3-8, including, in response to detecting the second input,
in accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the
second input, performing the second operation without performing the first operation.
10.     The method of any of claims 3-9, including, in response to detecting the second input,
in accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the
second input, forgoing generation of a second tactile output associated with the second
operation.
11.     The method of any of claims 1-10, including, in response to detecting the second
input, in accordance with the determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the
second input, forgoing generation of the first tactile output.
12.     The method of any of claims 1-11, wherein the first tactile output lasts for less than a
predetermined time.
13.     An electronic device, comprising:
        a display;
        a touch-sensitive surface;
        one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with the touch-sensitive surface;
        one or more processors;
        memory; and
        one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for:
        displaying, on the display, a user interface of a first software application; and
        while displaying the user interface of the first software application:
                detecting a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region
of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least a first
operation; and,
                in response to detecting the first input:
                                                 113

1001861434
                          in accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is
active for the first input, performing the first operation without generating a tactile output;
and,
                          in accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting
is active for the first input, forgoing performing the first operation;
                 detecting a second input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the second input is associated with the respective
region of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least the
first operation and the second input is different from the first input; and,
                 in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a determination
that the second tactile output setting is active for the second input, performing the first
operation in conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated with the first
operation.
14.      The device of claim 13, wherein:
         the respective region of the user interface of the first software application that is
associated with the first operation and a second operation that is distinct from the first
operation; and
         the one or more programs include instructions for, in response to detecting the second
input, in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the
second input, performing the second operation.
15.      The device of claim 14, wherein the one or more programs include instructions for:
         detecting a third input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface,
wherein the contact included in the third input is associated with the respective region of the
user interface of the first software application that is associated with the first operation and
the second operation and the third input is different from the first input and the second input;
and,
         in response to detecting the third input:
                 in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is
active for the third input, performing the second operation in conjunction with generating a
second tactile output associated with the second operation; and,
                                                  114

1001861434
                 in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active
for the third input, forgoing generation of the second tactile output.
16.      The device of any of claims 13-15, wherein the one or more programs include
instructions for, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with the
determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second input, forgoing
generation of the first tactile output.
17.      A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more
programs comprising instructions, which, when executed by an electronic device with a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, and one or more sensors to detect intensity of contacts with
the touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to:
         display, on the display, a user interface of a first software application; and,
         while displaying the user interface of the first software application:
                 detect a first input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the first input is associated with a respective region
of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least a first
operation;
                 in response to detecting the first input:
                          in accordance with a determination that a first tactile output setting is
active for the first input, perform the first operation without generating a tactile output; and,
                          in accordance with a determination that a second tactile output setting
is active for the first input, forgo performing the first operation;
                 detect a second input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the contact included in the second input is associated with the respective
region of the user interface of the first software application that is associated with at least the
first operation and the second input is different from the first input; and,
                 in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with a determination
that the second tactile output setting is active for the second input, perform the first operation
in conjunction with generating a first tactile output associated with the first operation.
18.      The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein:
                                                  115

1001861434
         the respective region of the user interface of the first software application that is
associated with the first operation and a second operation that is distinct from the first
operation; and
         the one or more programs include instructions, which, when executed by the
electronic device, cause the device to: in response to detecting the second input, in
accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active for the second
input, perform the second operation.
19.      The computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more
programs include instructions, which, when executed by the electronic device, cause the
device to:
         detect a third input that includes a contact detected on the touch-sensitive surface,
wherein the contact included in the third input is associated with the respective region of the
user interface of the first software application that is associated with the first operation and
the second operation and the third input is different from the first input and the second input;
and,
         in response to detecting the third input:
                  in accordance with a determination that the second tactile output setting is
active for the third input, perform the second operation in conjunction with generating a
second tactile output associated with the second operation; and,
                  in accordance with a determination that the first tactile output setting is active
for the third input, forgo generation of the second tactile output.
20.      The computer readable storage medium of any of claims 17-19, wherein the one or
more programs include instructions, which, when executed by the electronic device, cause the
device to, in response to detecting the second input, in accordance with the determination that
the first tactile output setting is active for the second input, forgo generation of the first tactile
output.
                                                   116

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
