 FPHCR.297WO
 CHW 234934PCTPR
             BREATHING ASSISTANCE APPARATUS WITH SERVICEABILITY
                                            FEATURES
                                             ABSTRACT
               A breathing assistance apparatus is configured with features that improve
 5    serviceability of the apparatus.    The apparatus can include animations to provide
      instruction regarding correcting easily-identified   fault conditions and to provide
      instruction regarding routine maintenance routines.        The apparatus also can be
      configured with top level control menus that are obscured in a manner to limit
      manipulation of the top level control elements by unauthorized users.
10
                                                -44-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
              BREATHING ASSISTANCE APPARATUS WITH SERVICEABILITY
                                              FEATURES
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5              [0001]     This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C.
       § 119(e) to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/620,676, filed on April 5, 2012, which
       is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
10     Field
                [0002]     The present disclosure generally relates to a gases supply and gases
       humidification apparatus.     More particularly, features, aspects and advantages of the
       present disclosure relate to such apparatuses that can coach a user regarding the
       correction of a fault condition.
15     Description of Related Art
                [0003]     A variety of machines can be used to assist with the breathing of a
       patient. Some of these machines are used among a plurality of users and are used almost
       continuously.     Some of the machines are used by very few users and are used
       intermittently. These machines can deliver a heated and/or humidified flow of breathing
20     gases to the user.
                [0004]     The machines may be operated by individuals and trained health
       professionals. From time to time, the machine may experience a condition that requires
       correction.   For example, a breathing conduit could become detached or a breathing
       conduit could become at least partially blocked.       In most instances, such conditions
25     would be indicated by a numerical fault code. Such numerical fault codes would require
       the user or operator to consult a look-up table or call a technician. Often, this technique
       of correcting an easily corrected problem can be more time consuming than desired.
                                                    -1-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                                               SUMMARY
                [0005]      Accordingly, a breathing apparatus comprises a flow generator, a
       humidifier chamber connected to the flow generator, a conduit connected to the
       humidifier generator, and a user breathing interface connected to the conduit.          The
 5     apparatus also comprises a display screen adapted to provide visual information to a
       user. The apparatus monitors one or more characteristic of use and, upon a triggering
       event occurring, the apparatus provides a series of image frames such as, for example,
       graphics, recorded images, visual descriptions, visual directions, still images, and/or
       videos to the display. The series of image frames depict one or more still graphics
10     and/or animated actions such that the user can make an adjustment to the apparatus
       based upon the image frames to address the occurrence of the triggering event.
                [0006]      In a first aspect, a breathing assistance apparatus is provided that
       includes a flow generator, a humidifier chamber connected to the flow generator, a
       conduit connected to the flow generator, a user breathing interface connected to the
15     conduit, and a display screen adapted to provide visual information to a user.          The
       apparatus can advantageously be configured to monitor one or more characteristics of
       use; and, upon an occurrence of a triggering event, to provide a series of image frames to
       the display. The series of image frames can depict an animated action that is configured
       to instruct a user to make an adjustment to the apparatus based upon the animated action
20     to address the occurrence of the triggering event.
                [0007]      In some embodiments, the apparatus includes a button and depression
       of the button stops the display of the series of image frames. In some embodiments, the
       animated action includes a sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                [0008]      In  some embodiments,       the triggering event comprises       usage
25     exceeding an upper limit of time. In a further embodiment, the animated action includes
       steps for replacing a filter.
                [0009]      In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises detection of at
       least one of a faulty heater wire, a faulty conduit temperature sensor, or a disconnected
       conduit. The animated action includes steps for replacing a breathing conduit.
                                                    -2-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0010]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises a reduction in
       resistance to flow.     The animated action includes steps for reseating a chamber,
       reconnecting a conduit, or reconnecting an interface to the conduit.
                [0011]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises an increase in
 5     resistance to flow.     The animated action includes steps for unbending a conduit,
       unclogging an interface, or checking that the correct interface is connected to the
       conduit.
                [0012]     In some embodiments, triggering event comprises detecting an
       oxygen level outside of a desired oxygen level. The animated action includes steps for
10     adjusting the oxygen supply.
                [0013]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises detecting a low
       water supply level.     The animated action includes steps for replenishing the water
       supply.
                [0014]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises detecting a
15     presence of an oxygen supply during disinfection mode. The animated action includes
       steps for removing the oxygen supply. In a further embodiment, the apparatus is adapted
       to shut off power to a disinfection conduit heater until the triggering event is corrected.
                [0015]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises detecting
       disconnection, depletion, or prolonged interruption of an oxygen supply. The animated
20     action includes steps for reconnecting the oxygen supply.
                [0016]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises failing to detect
       a breathing pattern. The animated action includes steps for reattaching a user interface.
                [0017]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises a breathing rate
       exceeding a predetermined breathing rate. The animated action includes illustrating the
25     breathing rate.
                [0018]     In some embodiments, the triggering event comprises one of usage
       exceeding an upper limit of time, detecting a faulty heater wire, detecting a faulty
       conduit temperature sensor, detecting a disconnected conduit, a reduction in resistance
       to flow, an increase in resistance to flow, detecting an oxygen level outside of a desired
30     oxygen level, detecting a low water supply level, detecting a presence of an oxygen
                                                   -3-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       supply during disinfection mode, detecting disconnection of an oxygen supply, detecting
       depletion or prolonged interruption of an oxygen supply, failing to detect a breathing
       pattern, or a breathing rate exceeding a predetermined breathing rate; and the animated
       action comprises a sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
 5              [0019]     In a second aspect, some embodiments provide for a breathing
       assistance apparatus that includes a flow generator, a humidifier chamber coupled to the
       flow generator, a conduit coupled to the flow generator, a user breathing interface
       connected to the conduit, a controller electrically coupled to the apparatus, a display
       screen electrically coupled to the controller and adapted to provide visual information to
10     a user. The apparatus is configured to monitor one or more characteristics of use and to
       detect an occurrence of a triggering event using the controller, the detection of the
       triggering event being at least partly based on the monitored characteristics of use. The
       apparatus is also configured to select a series of image frames depicting an animated
       action and to provide the series of image frames to the display. The animated action can
15     advantageously be configured to instruct a user to make an adjustment to the apparatus
       based upon the animated action to address the occurrence of the triggering event by
       providing visual cues in the series of image frames indicating a region of interest and at
       least one audible cue corresponding to an occurrence of an action in the series of image
       frames wherein the audible cue and the occurrence of the action are configured to be
20     presented substantially simultaneously.
                [0020]     In some embodiments of the second aspect, the audible cue is
       configured to approximate a sound produced when the action occurs.                 In some
       embodiments of the second aspect, the visual cues comprise flashing lights surrounding
       the region of interest.
25              [0021]     In some embodiments of the second aspect, the series of image
       frames comprises a first subset of image frames depicting the apparatus with a first level
       of detail and a second subset of image frames depicting a second level of detail, the
       second level of detail being greater than the first level of detail.           In a further
       embodiment, the second subset of image frames presents a zoomed-in depiction of a
30     portion of the apparatus that includes the region of interest.
                                                    -4-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0022]     In some embodiments, the one or more characteristics of use includes
       at least one of usage time, heater wire status, oxygen supply status, temperature sensor
       status, conduit status, water level, flow rate, resistance to flow, oxygen level, breathing
       rate, gas temperature, or heater plate power.
 5              [0023]     In some embodiments, the apparatus includes a button and depression
       of the button stops the display of the series of image frames. In some embodiments, the
       animated action includes a sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                [0024]     In a third aspect, a method of indicating an alarm on a breathing
       assistance apparatus is provided. The method can include detecting an occurrence of a
10     triggering event using a controller of the apparatus. The method can include selecting an
       animated action corresponding to the detected occurrence of the triggering event. The
       method can include displaying on a display of the apparatus a series of image frames
       depicting the animated action. The method can include detecting a correction of the
       triggering event using a controller of the apparatus. The method can include ending the
15     display of the series of image frames upon detection of the correction of the triggering
       event. The series of image frames can advantageously be configured to instruct a user to
       make an adjustment to the apparatus based upon the animated action to address the
       occurrence of the triggering event.
                [0025]     In a fourth aspect, a method of indicating an alarm on a breathing
20     assistance apparatus is provided. The method can include detecting a triggering event
       using a controller of the apparatus. The method can include selecting an animated action
       corresponding to the detected triggering event. The method can include displaying on a
       display of the apparatus a series of image frames depicting the animated action. The
       method can include emitting an audible noise with a speaker of the apparatus.           The
25     method can include detecting a correction of the triggering event using a controller of
       the apparatus. The method can include ending the display of the series of image frames
       and the emission of the audible noise upon detection of the correction of the triggering
       event. The series of image frames can advantageously be configured to instruct a user to
       make an adjustment to the apparatus based upon the animated action to address the
30     triggering event by providing visual cues in the series of image frames indicating a
                                                    -5-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       region of interest and at least one audible cue corresponding to an occurrence of an
       action in the series of image frames. The audible cue and the occurrence of the action
       can advantageously be configured to be presented substantially simultaneously.
                [0026]     In some embodiments of the fourth aspect, the audible cue is
 5     configured to approximate a sound produced when the action occurs.                 In some
       embodiments of the fourth aspect, the visual cues comprise flashing lights surrounding
       the region of interest.
                [0027]     In some embodiments of the fourth aspect, the series of image frames
       comprises a first subset of image frames depicting the apparatus with a first level of
10     detail and a second subset of image frames depicting a second level of detail, the second
       level of detail being greater than the first level of detail. In a further embodiment, the
       second subset of image frames presents a zoomed-in depiction of a portion of the
       apparatus that includes the region of interest.
                [0028]     In some embodiments of the fourth aspect, the method can include
15     monitoring one or more characteristics of use. In a further embodiment, the one or more
       characteristics of use includes at least one of usage time, heater wire status, oxygen
       supply status, temperature sensor status, conduit status, water level, flow rate, resistance
       to flow, oxygen level, breathing rate, gas temperature, or heater plate power.
                [0029]     In summary, the disclosure may be described according to the
20     following numbered clauses:
                [0030]     Clause 1. A breathing assistance apparatus comprising:           a flow
       generator; a humidifier chamber connected to the flow generator; a conduit connected to
       the flow generator; a user breathing interface connected to the conduit; and a display
       screen adapted to provide visual information to a user, wherein the apparatus is
25     configured to monitor one or more characteristics of use, and upon an occurrence of a
       triggering event to provide a series of image frames to the display, the series of image
       frames depicting an animated action configured to instruct a user to make an adjustment
       to the apparatus based upon the animated action to address the occurrence of the
       triggering event.
                                                    -6-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0031]      Clause 2. The apparatus of Clause 1, further comprising a button
       and depression of the button stops the display of the series of image frames.
                [0032]      Clause 3. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises usage exceeding an upper limit of time.
 5              [0033]      Clause 4. The apparatus of Clause 3, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replacing a filter.
                [0034]      Clause 5.  The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises detection of at least one of a faulty heater wire, a faulty conduit temperature
       sensor, or a disconnected conduit.
10              [0035]      Clause 6. The apparatus of Clause 5, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replacing a breathing conduit.
                [0036]      Clause 7. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises a reduction in resistance to flow.
                [0037]      Clause 8.  The apparatus of Clause 7, wherein the animated action
15     comprises steps for reseating a chamber, reconnecting a conduit or reconnecting an
       interface to the conduit.
                [0038]      Clause 9. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises an increase in resistance to flow.
                [0039]      Clause 10. The apparatus of Clause 9, wherein the animated action
20     comprises steps for unbending a conduit, unclogging an interface or checking that the
       correct interface is connected to the conduit.
                [0040]      Clause 11. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises detecting an oxygen level outside of a desired oxygen level.
                [0041]      Clause 12. The apparatus of Clause 11, wherein the animated action
25     comprises steps for adjusting the oxygen supply.
                [0042]      Clause 13. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises detecting a low water supply level.
                [0043]      Clause 14. The apparatus of Clause 13, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replenishing the water supply.
                                                    -7-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0044]     Clause 15. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises detecting a presence of an oxygen supply during disinfection mode.
                [0045]     Clause 16. The apparatus of Clause 15, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for removing the oxygen supply.
 5              [0046]     Clause 17. The apparatus of Clause 16, wherein the apparatus also
       shuts off power to a disinfection conduit heater until the triggering event is corrected.
                [0047]     Clause 18. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises detecting disconnection, depletion or prolonged interruption of an oxygen
       supply.
10              [0048]     Clause 19. The apparatus of Clause 18, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for reconnecting the oxygen supply.
                [0049]     Clause 20. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises failing to detect a breathing pattern.
                [0050]     Clause 21. The apparatus of Clause 20, wherein the animated action
15     comprises steps for reattaching a user interface.
                [0051]     Clause 22. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises a breathing rate exceeding a predetermined breathing rate.
                [0052]     Clause 23. The apparatus of Clause 22, wherein the animated action
       comprises illustrating the breathing rate.
20              [0053]     Clause 24. The apparatus of any of Clauses 3-23, wherein the
       animated action comprises a sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                [0054]     Clause 24. The apparatus of Clause 1, wherein the triggering event
       comprises one of usage exceeding an upper limit of time, detecting a faulty heater wire,
       detecting a faulty conduit temperature sensor, detecting a disconnected conduit, a
25     reduction in resistance to flow, an increase in resistance to flow, detecting an oxygen
       level outside of a desired oxygen level, detecting a low water supply level, detecting a
       presence of an oxygen supply during disinfection mode, detecting disconnection of an
       oxygen supply, detecting depletion or prolonged interruption of an oxygen supply,
       failing to detect a breathing pattern, or a breathing rate exceeding a predetermined
                                                    -8-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       breathing rate; and the animated action comprises a sequence that repeats until the
       triggering event is corrected.
                [0055]     Clause 25. A breathing assistance apparatus comprising:        a flow
       generator; a humidifier chamber coupled to the flow generator; a conduit coupled to the
 5     flow generator; a user breathing interface connected to the conduit; a controller
       electrically coupled to the apparatus; and a display screen electrically coupled to the
       controller and adapted to provide visual information to a user, wherein the apparatus is
       configured to: monitor one or more characteristics of use; detect an occurrence of a
       triggering event using the controller, the detection of the triggering event being at least
10     partly based on the monitored characteristics of use; select a series of image frames
       depicting an animated action; and provide the series of image frames to the display,
       wherein the animated action is configured to instruct a user to make an adjustment to the
       apparatus based upon the animated action to address the occurrence of the triggering
       event by providing visual cues in the series of image frames indicating a region of
15     interest and at least one audible cue corresponding to an occurrence of an action in the
       series of image frames wherein the audible cue and the occurrence of the action are
       configured to be presented substantially simultaneously.
                [0056]     Clause 26. The apparatus of Clause 25, wherein the audible cue is
       configured to approximate a sound produced when the action occurs.
20              [0057]     Clause 27. The apparatus of Clause 25, wherein the visual cues
       comprise flashing lights surrounding the region of interest.
                [0058]     Clause 28. The apparatus of Clause 25, wherein the series of image
       frames comprises a first subset of image frames depicting the apparatus with a first level
       of detail and a second subset of image frames depicting a second level of detail, the
25     second level of detail being greater than the first level of detail.
                [0059]     Clause 29. The apparatus of Clause 28, wherein the second subset of
       image frames presents a zoomed-in depiction of a portion of the apparatus that includes
       the region of interest.
                [0060]     Clause 30. The apparatus of Clause 25, wherein the one or more
30     characteristics of use includes at least one of usage time, heater wire status, oxygen
                                                    -9-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       supply status, temperature sensor status, conduit status, water level, flow rate, resistance
       to flow, oxygen level, breathing rate, gas temperature, or heater plate power.
                [0061]      Clause 31. The apparatus of Clause 25, wherein the triggering event
       comprises one of usage exceeding an upper limit of time, detecting a faulty heater wire,
 5     detecting a faulty conduit temperature sensor, detecting a disconnected conduit, a
       reduction in resistance to flow, an increase in resistance to flow, detecting an oxygen
       level outside of a desired oxygen level, detecting a low water supply level, detecting a
       presence of an oxygen supply during disinfection mode, detecting disconnection of an
       oxygen supply, detecting depletion or prolonged interruption of an oxygen supply,
10     failing to detect a breathing pattern, or a breathing rate exceeding a predetermined
       breathing rate; and the animated action comprises a sequence that repeats until the
       triggering event is corrected.
                [0062]      Clause 32. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replacing a filter.
15              [0063]      Clause 33. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replacing a breathing conduit.
                [0064]      Clause 34. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for reseating a chamber, reconnecting a conduit or reconnecting an
       interface to the conduit.
20              [0065]      Clause 35. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for unbending a conduit, unclogging an interface or checking that the
       correct interface is connected to the conduit.
                [0066]      Clause 36. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for adjusting the oxygen supply.
25              [0067]      Clause 37. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for replenishing the water supply.
                [0068]      Clause 38. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for removing the oxygen supply.
                [0069]      Clause 39. The apparatus of Clause 38, wherein the apparatus also
30     shuts off power to a disinfection conduit heater until the triggering event is corrected.
                                                   -10-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0070]     Clause 40. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for reconnecting the oxygen supply.
                [0071]     Clause 41. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises steps for reattaching a user interface.
 5              [0072]     Clause 42. The apparatus of Clause 31, wherein the animated action
       comprises illustrating the breathing rate.
                [0073]     Clause 43. A method of indicating an alarm on a breathing assistance
       apparatus, the method comprising: detecting an occurrence of a triggering event using a
       controller of the apparatus; selecting an animated action corresponding to the detected
10     occurrence of the triggering event; displaying on a display of the apparatus a series of
       image frames depicting the animated action; detecting a correction of the triggering
       event using a controller of the apparatus; and ending the display of the animated action
       upon detection of the correction of the triggering event, wherein the series of image
       frames are configured to instruct a user to make an adjustment to the apparatus based
15     upon the animated action to address the occurrence of the triggering event.
                [0074]     Clause 44. A method of indicating an alarm on a breathing assistance
       apparatus, the method comprising: detecting a triggering event using a controller of the
       apparatus; selecting an animated action corresponding to the detected triggering event;
       displaying on a display of the apparatus a series of image frames depicting the animated
20     action; emitting an audible noise with a speaker of the apparatus; detecting a correction
       of the triggering event using a controller of the apparatus; and ending the display of the
       animated action and the emission of the audible noise upon detection of the correction of
       the triggering event, wherein the animated action is configured to instruct a user to make
       an adjustment to the apparatus based upon the animated action to address the triggering
25     event by providing visual cues in the series of image frames indicating a region of
       interest and at least one audible cue corresponding to an occurrence of an action in the
       series of image frames wherein the audible cue and the occurrence of the action are
       configured to be presented substantially simultaneously.
                                                   -11-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                [0075]     These and other features, aspects, and advantages will now be
       described with reference to the drawings of some embodiments, which embodiments are
       intended to illustrate and not to limit the scope of the disclosure, and in which figures:
 5              [0076]     Figure 1 is a perspective view of an apparatus that provides a
       humidified and heated flow of fluid to a user or patient.
                [0077]     Figure 2 is a rear perspective view of a portion of the apparatus of
       Figure 1.
                [0078]     Figure 3 is a front perspective view of the portion of Figure 2.
10              [0079]     Figure 4 is a front perspective view of the portion of Figure 2
       awaiting connection of a disinfection conduit for a disinfection mode.
                [0080]     Figure 5 illustrates the portion of Figure 4 with the disinfection
       conduit connected.
                [0081]     Figures 6A-6D illustrates a display flow for the apparatus in a
15     primary mode.
                [0082]     Figure 7 illustrates a disinfection mode display flow for the apparatus.
                [0083]     Figures 8A-8D illustrate a series of images used in an animation
       showing how to replace a filter of the apparatus.
                [0084]     Figures 9A-9C illustrate another display flow for the apparatus in a
20     secondary mode.
                [0085]     Figure 10 illustrates a fault condition correction display flow for the
       apparatus.
                [0086]     Figure 11 illustrates a series of images used in an animation showing
       how to connect a breathing circuit of the apparatus.
25              [0087]     Figures 12A-12M illustrate a series of images used in an example
       animation showing a chamber installation sequence.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                [0088]     Figure 1 illustrates an apparatus 20 that provides a humidified and
30     heated flow of fluid to a user or patient 10. The illustrated apparatus 20 comprises a
                                                     -12-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       high-flow breathing assistance apparatus; however, features, aspects, and advantages of
       some embodiments can be used with other types of apparatus used to supply a
       humidified and/or heated flow of fluid (e.g., gases or air) to the user or patient 10. For
       example, features, aspects, and advantages of some embodiments can be used with
 5     CPAP machines, insufflation humidifiers for laparoscopic or other surgical procedures,
       respiratory humidifiers, humidifiers for noninvasive ventilation applications, humidifiers
       for invasive ventilation applications, infant resuscitation devices, and the like.      The
       apparatus can be configured as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 12/138,594,
       filed on June 13, 2008, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/916,503, filed on June 29, 2006,
10     and/or U.S. Patent Application No. 10/246,328, filed on September 18, 2002, each of
       which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                [0089]     In some embodiments, the apparatus 20 can include a display 40
       configured to display a series of images in succession that illustrate an animated action.
       The animated action can be used to instruct a user on how to perform a particular action.
15     The series of images can be displayed in response to a triggering event and the animated
       action can be configured to present one or more methods of responding to the triggering
       event. The apparatus 20 can be configured to detect various triggering events and to
       automatically display a corresponding series of images. For example, the apparatus 20
       can be configured to detect when a chamber is not correctly installed (e.g., the triggering
20     event).    In response, the apparatus 20 can display a series of images identifying the
       location of the problem, the element of the apparatus that triggered the event, and a
       method of correcting the problem (e.g., the animated action).
                [0090]     In some embodiments, the series of images displayed on the display
       40 can include flashing lights, coloring, shading, or other similar visual cues to indicate
25     the element or location of the triggering event. For example, if a conduit is not properly
       connected, the conduit can be displayed as flashing red, having a colored outline,
       glowing in a pulsating fashion, having an arrow pointing to the conduit, or the like. The
       animated action can display a method of properly connecting the conduit, after which the
       conduit can be displayed as flashing green, having a different colored outline, glowing in
30     a relatively constant fashion, or the like to indicate a change from an incorrect to a
                                                   -13-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       correct configuration. In some embodiments, no words are used such that the visual
       images can communicate corrective actions to any user independent of language or
       technical background.     In some embodiments, a user can choose to display written
       instructions and/or provide audible instructions in addition to the visual images.
 5     However, these written and/or audible instructions are not generally necessary because
       the visual images provide universal visual instructions as described herein below.
                [0091]    In some embodiments, the apparatus 20 can be configured to provide
       audible cues that correspond to the series of images presented on the display 40. For
       example, when an element of the apparatus 20 is illustrated as being "clicked" into
10     place, the apparatus can emit a sound indicating that a corresponding sound should be
       heard when the user performs the action being illustrated. In some embodiments, the
       audible cue can be configured to approximate or simulate the sound a user would hear
       when performing the animated action. In some embodiments, the timing of the emitted
       sound corresponds to the timing of the animated action, such that at the time when the
15     animated action displays the action that produces a sound, the apparatus can emit the
       corresponding audible cue.
                [0092]    With continued reference to Figure 1, the apparatus 20 comprises a
       flow generating apparatus 22.       The illustrated flow generating apparatus 22 can be
       connected to a patient interface 24 with a flexible conduit 26. The patient interface 24
20     can be any suitable patient interface. For example, but without limitation, the patient
       interface 24 can comprise noninvasive interfaces including, but not limited to, adult
       nasal cannula, infant nasal cannula, full face masks, combination oral/nasal masks, nasal
       masks, nasal pillows, high flow cannula, or the like. In some configurations, the patient
       interface 24 can comprise invasive or minimally invasive interfaces including, but not
25     limited to, endotracheal tubes, insufflation devices, or the like. In some configurations,
       adaptors and connectors can be provided for coupling to tracheotomy devices and
       masks.
                [0093]    In the illustrated configuration, the flexible conduit 26 can comprise a
       heating element 30 and a sensing element 32.          In some configurations, the sensing
30     element 32 can be positioned at an end portion of the flexible conduit 26 closest to the
                                                   -14-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       patient interface 24. In some configurations, the sensing element 32 is positioned within
       the lumen defined by the flexible conduit 26 such that the sensing element 32 is exposed
       to the fluid being carried within the lumen.         The sensing element 32 can sense a
       characteristic or attribute of the fluid being carried within the lumen.           In some
 5     configurations, the sensing element 32 is arranged and configured to sense the
       temperature of the fluid passing through the lumen. In some configurations, the heating
       element 30 and the sensing element 32 can be arranged as described in co-pending U.S.
       Patent Application No. 12/777,370, published as U.S. Publication No. 2010/0218763 on
       September 2, 2010, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
10              [0094]     The end of the flexible conduit 26 closest to the flow generating
       apparatus 22 comprises a connector 34. The connector 34 can be configured to establish
       both a pneumatic connection between the flow generating apparatus 22 and the lumen of
       the flexible conduit 26 and an electrical connection between at least the heating element
       30 of the flexible conduit 26 and the flow generating apparatus 22.                In some
15     configurations, the connector 34 facilitates establishing both the pneumatic connection
       and the electrical connection in a single step. In some configurations, the connector 34
       can be configured as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,953,354, issued on October 11, 2005
       and entitled "Connector for Breathing Circuits," which patent is hereby incorporated
       herein by reference in its entirety.
20              [0095]     With continued reference to Figure 1, the flow generating apparatus
       22 comprises a user control interface 36.          The user control interface 36 enables
       interaction between the user, patient 10, or another person (e.g., without limitation,
       health professionals, distributors, or the like) and the flow generating apparatus 22. The
       illustrated user control interface 36 comprises a display screen 40. The display screen
25     40 can be any suitable display screen. In some configurations, the display screen 40
       comprises an organic light-emitting diode (OLED) screen. In some configurations, the
       display screen 40 can comprise a full color display with a pixel count of between about
       6,000 pixels and about 500,000 pixels. In some configurations, the display screen 40
       can comprise a pixel count of about 20,480 pixels. In some configurations, the display
30     screen can comprise a screen size of about 128 pixels by about 160 pixels (vertical by
                                                     -15-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       horizontal).    In some configurations, the display screen can be about 1.8 inches
       diagonally to about 4 inches diagonally. To reduce heat transferred from the screen to
       other components of the apparatus 22, the screen can be run with a black screen (e.g.,
       most of the pixels are inactive during operation of the apparatus 22).
 5              [0096]      The illustrated user interface 36 comprises five different keys: a
       power key/button 42, a mute key/button 44, an up arrow key/button 46, a down arrow
       key/button 50 and a mode key/button 52. In some configurations, the user interface 36
       can include some combination of mechanical keys, electro-mechanical keys, and touch
       sensitive capabilities such as where the display 40 comprises a touch-screen and
10     navigation through a menu structure or other suitable manner of device operation can be
       provided via the display 40. In some configurations, a joystick, a toggle, or the like can
       be provided for navigation through a menu structure or other suitable manner of device
       operation.
                [0097]      With reference to Figure 2, the illustrated flow generating apparatus
15     22 comprises an outer housing 60. The outer housing 60 contains a flow generator (not
       shown).      The flow generator can be any suitable component or components for
       generating a source of pressurized air, which generates a flow of gases through the
       conduit 26.     As shown in Figure 2, the housing 60 can define an inlet to the flow
       generator, which inlet is covered with a filter cover 62. The filter cover 62 can contain a
20     replaceable filter element 64 that overlies the inlet to the flow generator such that it
       filters a flow of air that passes into the housing through openings in the filter cover 62.
                [0098]      With continued reference to Figure 2, a first end of an oxygen supply
       conduit 66 can be connected to the filter cover 62. A second end of the oxygen supply
       conduit 66 can have a fitting 68 used to connect to a supply conduit from a wall supply
25     or the like, as shown in Figure 1. Returning to Figure 2, the filter cover 62 or a region
       contained between the filter cover and the flow generator can define a mixing region for
       ambient air and the oxygen supplied through the conduit 66.
                [0099]      With reference to Figure 3, flow from the flow generator (not shown)
       passes into and through a chamber 70. An outlet port 72 (see Figure 4) from the flow
30     generator connects to an inlet port (not shown) of the chamber 70. A water supply can
                                                     -16-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       be contained within the chamber 70 such that the flow passes over the surface of the
       water supply to be humidified. An outlet port of the chamber 70 connects to an inlet end
       74 of an elbow 76. The elbow has an outlet end 78 that connects to the conduit 26 as
       described above.
 5              [0100]     The chamber 70 rests atop a heater plate 80 (see Figure 4) or other
       suitable heating element. The heater plate 80 can be controlled by the apparatus 22 such
       that the water contained within the chamber 70 can be heated to a suitable level. The
       water contained within the chamber 70 can be replenished from a feed set and water bag
       configuration, if desired.
10              [0101]     In some configurations, the apparatus 22 can comprise one or more
       temperature sensors that are positioned downstream of the humidification chamber 70.
       In some configurations, two temperature sensors can be positioned within the elbow 76.
       Output from the temperature sensor in the elbow 76 and information regarding the heater
       plate duty cycle can be used in connection with an algorithm to detect the humidity. A
15     system can be used such as that disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
       61/328,521, filed on April 27, 2010 and W02009/145646, filed on May 27, 2009 and
       published on December 3, 2009, each of which is hereby incorporated herein by
       reference in its entirety.
                [0102]     The apparatus 22 also can comprise an airflow sensor that is
20     positioned upstream of the flow generator as well as a temperature sensor that is
       positioned upstream of the humidification chamber 70.        In some configurations, the
       temperature sensor is positioned upstream of the flow generator as well.         In some
       configurations, an oxygen sensor also can be positioned upstream of the humidification
       chamber or the flow generator. In some configurations, an ultrasound principle can be
25     used to detect the oxygen content in the air based upon the detected humidity level can
       improve the detection of oxygen content. In some configurations, a system can be used
       such as that disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/620,595, filed on
       April 5, 2012, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                [0103]     The apparatus 22 also comprises a suitable controller, which includes
30     memory and other components used for sensing various characteristics of flows and
                                                  -17-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       operation of the apparatus. Moreover, the apparatus 22 can comprise a speaker or other
       audible alert generator.
                [0104]     With reference to Figure 5, in order to disinfect the apparatus 22
       between users, for example, a disinfection conduit 82 can be connected to the outlet 72
 5     from the flow generator and to the outlet 78 of the elbow 76. The disinfection conduit
       82 can include a heater coil 84 that is electrically connected to the electrical connection
       with a connector that is similar to, or the same as, the connector 34 described above. A
       filter cap 86 can be positioned over the inlet end 74 of the elbow 76.
10     Start- Up Operation
                [0105]     With reference now to Figures 6A-6D, control and operation of some
       features, aspects, and advantages of the illustrated apparatus 20 will be described. As
       will be described, the illustrated apparatus 20 can be operated in at least two main
       modes. In the illustrated configuration, the apparatus 20 has a primary mode that can be
15     used in multiple-user applications and a secondary mode that can be used in single-user
       applications, for example but without limitation. In some configurations, the apparatus
       20 can be used in the primary mode with multiple users and under generally continuous
       use conditions and in the secondary mode with a small number of users and under
       intermittent use. In other words, the apparatus 20 can be used in the primary mode in a
20     setting such as a hospital or other healthcare facility and the same apparatus 20 can be
       used in the secondary mode in a setting such as a home.           Such a configuration is
       advantageous in that a smaller number of machines need to be stocked for supply by
       distributors because of the ability to customize the machine to the end user.
                [0106]     In the description below, either the primary mode or the secondary
25     mode may be referred to as the default mode but the apparatus 22 need not default to this
       mode at start up. In some configurations, the apparatus 20 comprises a disinfection
       mode for use between users. In some configurations, the apparatus 20 also can comprise
       a youth sub-mode that can be configured for use with younger users.                In some
       configurations, the apparatus 20 can comprise a youth sub-mode for each of the primary
30     mode and the secondary mode, which youth sub-modes can be configured for use with
                                                   -18-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       younger users.     In some configurations, at least one of the primary mode and the
       secondary mode can include a conduit drying sub-mode, breathing pattern feedback sub
       mode, a night-use sub-mode, and/or a transport mode.            In some configurations, the
       secondary mode can include one or more of the conduit drying sub-mode and the night
 5     use sub-mode.      Any of these modes and sub-modes, or even some other mode of
       operation, can be the startup mode.      In some embodiments, the apparatus 20 can be
       configured to request an input of the desired mode or sub-mode of operation such that
       there is no generally pre-specified operational mode.
                [0107]     With reference now to Figure 6A, the apparatus 22 starts with the
10     depression of the power button 42. See S-1. In some configurations, the power button
       42 can be pressed and held for at least a minimum period of time in order to start the
       apparatus 22. Upon starting, one or more start screens can be presented on the screen or
       display 40 of the apparatus 22.      See S-2.     In some configurations, activation of the
       apparatus 22 also can be indicated audibly. For example, the apparatus 20 can include a
15     speaker that emits a single solid tone, a series of tones, a recorded or synthesized voice,
       music, a chime, or other such noise or series of noises, for example but without
       limitation.
                [0108]     With continued reference to Figure 6A, when in the primary mode or
       the primary mode's youth sub-mode, following the display of the start screens, the
20     illustrated configuration presents a screen that indicates the last event. See S-3.        As
       illustrated, if a successful disinfection was the last event, then the apparatus 22 can
       indicate the number of completed disinfection cycles and the time since the last
       disinfection cycle, for example but without limitation. Also, a graphical indicator can be
       presented of whether the apparatus 22 has been recently disinfected. In the illustrated
25     embodiment, for example but without limitation, there is a green light on a traffic light.
       If the last event was not a successful disinfection, then a different graphical indicator can
       be presented (e.g., an amber light on a traffic light). In some configurations, such as the
       illustrated configuration, the display will alternate between the number of disinfection
       cycles completed and the time since the last disinfection cycle.
                                                    -19-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0109]     After a period of time, the apparatus 22 begins a warm-up procedure.
       In some configurations, during the warm-up procedure, the heating element 30 is
       energized, which heats a water supply in the chamber 70. With continued reference to
       Figure 6A, a swirling icon indicates the warm-up procedure is underway. See S-4. In
 5     some configurations, the swirling icon comprises multiple stationary images that, when
       played in series, provide the appearance of a revolving circle animation.               Other
       configurations also can be used to create an animation indicative of on-going warm-up.
       The animation, however, advantageously provides a visual indicator of on-going
       activity.   In some embodiments, the animation can include text, sound, or some
10     combination of images, animation, text, and/or sound.
                [0110]     With continued reference to Figure 6A, once the warm-up procedure
       has been completed, the swirling icon (see S-4) changes to a check-mark (i.e., tick). See
       S-5. The completion of the warm-up procedure also can be indicated by an audible tone
       or range of tones (e.g., ascending scale of tones), a recorded voice or synthesized voice,
15     a chime, a series of tones, or the like. In the illustrated configuration, the display 40 also
       shows a graphical depiction of values for dew point temperature, flow rate, and oxygen
       alarm level. This can be referred to as the main screen, the multiple value screen, or the
       summary screen.      In some embodiments, the main screen can include additional or
       different information including, but not limited to, an indication of a mode or sub-mode
20     (e.g., transport mode indicators, youth sub-mode indicators, feedback sub-mode
       indicators), values for other parameters, disinfection information, or the like.
                [0111]     Advantageously, the multiple values shown on the screen are
       concurrently displayed to provide a simple review of these values. The readings can
       advantageously be displayed in other than a straight line to improve readability. In other
25     words, to aid reading, one or more of the multiple values are offset relative to the others
       of the multiple values.         For example but without limitation, in the illustrated
       configuration (see S-5), the temperature is illustrated higher on the screen than the flow
       rate and the flow rate is illustrated higher on the screen than the oxygen alarm level. The
       display also can be provided with a screen saver (see S-6) that displays after a set period
                                                     -20-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       of display inactivity.   In some embodiments, the screen saver can include additional
       information, animations, or the like.
                [0112]     The    menus    and   display   screens   of  the  apparatus  22    can
       advantageously be configured to be graphics-based instead of, or in addition to, being
 5     text-based. By displaying information, options, menus, instructions, and the like in a
       graphical manner, the display can be utilized in situations where different languages are
       spoken and/or where multiple languages are spoken.          This can reduce or eliminate a
       need to translate instructions or information when the apparatus is used in various
       locations. This can also reduce or eliminate misunderstandings or mistakes that occur
10     due to language differences or inaccurate translations of text-based information.
       Mode Selection and High Level Settings
                [0113]     With reference to Figure 6B, from the main screen (see S-5) a key
       combination can be used to enter a top-level control menu, until ready to use. See S-7.
       In the illustrated configuration, the key combination comprises pressing the top three
15     buttons (e.g., mute key 44, up arrow key 46, down arrow key 50) for at least a minimum
       period of time. In some configurations, the minimum period of time is 10 seconds.
       Other key combinations and minimum periods of time can be used.
                [0114]     In the illustrated configuration, the top-level control mode is
       accessible in the default mode (e.g., the primary mode or the secondary mode). The top
20     level control menu is used by individuals other than the user or patient 10. For example,
       the top-level control menu can be used by someone other than the ultimate user/patient
       10 or the healthcare provider. In some configurations, the top-level control menu can be
       used by individuals authorized by the owner, distributor, or manufacture of the apparatus
       22 such that various set points can be established for the owner that are not available for
25     use by the user (e.g., the user 10 is unaware of the top-level control menu and/or the key
       combination used to access the top-level control menu).
                [0115]     Upon entry into the top-level control menu, the illustrated apparatus
       22 enters a mode adjustment screen.        See S-8.   The mode adjustment screen allows
       changing between the primary mode and the secondary mode. The mode adjustment
                                                    -21-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       screen presents information regarding the current mode (e.g., primary mode ("Primary"),
       secondary mode ("Secondary"), etc.).
                [0116]     While the mode adjustment screen is presented (see S-8), pressing
       and holding the up and down arrow keys together for a preset period of time unlocks the
 5     mode for adjustment. See S-9. The up arrow key 46 and the down arrow key 50 enable
       changing between available modes. Once a mode has been selected, pressing the mode
       button 52 reboots the machine in the selected mode.            In some embodiments, the
       apparatus 22 only reboots when the selected mode is different from the previous mode.
                [0117]     In the illustrated configuration, while in the mode adjustment screen
10     (see S-8), pressing the mode button 52 activates a language adjustment screen. See S
       10.    While the language adjustment screen is presented, pressing and holding the up
       arrow key 46 and the down arrow key 50 together for at least a minimum period of time
       unlocks the language adjustment selection.        See S-11.  The up arrow key 46 and the
       down arrow key 50 enable changing between languages.            Once a language has been
15     identified, pressing the mode button 52 confirms the identified language setting.
                [0118]     In the illustrated configuration, while in the language adjustment
       screen (see S-10), pressing the mode button 52 activates a target limit adjustment screen.
       See S-12. While the target limit adjustment screen is presented, pressing and holding
       the up arrow key 46 and the down arrow key 50 together for at least a minimum period
20     of time unlocks the target limit adjustment. See S-13. In the target limit adjustment
       screen, the limits (e.g., lower limit and upper limit) between which target values can be
       set will be adjustable. Thus, if an owner or provider of the apparatus 22 desires that the
       flow target be selected from within a range between 15 L/min and 30 L/min at all times,
       those values can be set using the target limit adjustment screen.
25              [0119]     While any of a number of parameters can be monitored and/or
       adjusted, the illustrated embodiment demonstrates monitoring, using, setting and/or
       adjusting the dew point temperature, the flow rate, the oxygen level, the oxygen setting,
       and the disinfection setting, for example but without limitation.        In the illustrated
       configuration, the oxygen level is merely detected and is not adjusted by the apparatus
30     22. In some embodiments, the values defining the range are locked and, when in the
                                                    -22-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       target limit adjustment screen (see S-12), depressing the up arrow key 46 and the down
       arrow key 50 together for a set period of time can unlock the values for adjustment. The
       unlocking of the values can be audibly indicated through the speaker (e.g., a solid tone,
       series of tones, music, chime, click, or the like).
 5              [0120]      With   continued    reference   to  Figure  6B,   in   the   illustrated
       configuration, the lower limit for the temperature range can be adjusted while the upper
       limit is not adjustable. In some configurations, the upper limit is about 37 C. The lower
       limit, in the illustrated configuration can be about 31 C. In some configurations, the
       temperature can be adjusted in increments of 3 C and, as such, the lower limit
10     temperature can be set to 31 C, 34 C or 37 C. In the illustrated configuration, both the
       upper limit and the lower limit of the flow rate range can be adjusted. The flow range
       can be adjusted in 5 L/min increments between about 50 and about 15. In the illustrated
       configuration, the oxygen alarm level can be adjusted in 5% increments between about
       90 and about 0. In some configurations, there is no lower limit for the oxygen alarm
15     level. The oxygen alarm level does not change the level of oxygen supplied but is used
       to provide an alarm if the level of oxygen being supplied is outside of a specified level.
                [0121]      In the illustrated configuration, the oxygen setting can be used to
       indicate whether the oxygen source is 100% bottle oxygen or a lower fraction from a
       concentrator which also has an argon content, for example. See S-13.2. The oxygen
20     concentration can be set and can range between about 20% and about 100%. Typically,
       the oxygen concentration can range between about 90% and about 95%. Pressing the up
       and down buttons allows the user to select the oxygen source and/or to adjust the oxygen
       concentration.    Pressing the mode button can lock-in or confirm the selection and/or
       toggle the selection of the oxygen source. See S-13.4.
25              [0122]      With continued reference to Figure 6B, the disinfection setting can be
       used to require a user to acknowledge a disinfection warning (e.g., by pressing the mode
       button 52) when the apparatus is being restarted in a defined disinfection state. See S
       13.6. For example, when an apparatus is turned on without being disinfected prior to
       being shut off the last time it was in use, an amber or orange indicator light can be
30     displayed during startup. If disinfection acknowledgement is selected, the user will be
                                                     -23-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       required to acknowledge the warning by pressing the mode button 52 when the indicator
       is displayed before resuming normal operation or startup. This can be set to force an
       acknowledgement on the part of the person operating the apparatus 22 that no
       disinfection mode has been run on the apparatus 22 since it was last used. In other
 5     words, the person operating the apparatus must consciously depress the mode button 52
       to acknowledge this information. Using the up and down arrows can alternatively select
       and deselect this setting. Pressing the mode button confirms the selection. See S-13.8.
                [0123]     In some embodiments, the person changing the settings is alerted to
       the value being changed by a visual indicator.      In the illustrated configuration, the
10     number being adjusted changes between a colored number and a white number. In this
       manner, the number being adjusted appears to be pulsating or blinking. For example, as
       the user uses the mode button 52 to cycle from "temperature lower limit" to "flow lower
       limit" to "flow upper limit" to "oxygen alarm upper limit," the number being adjusted
       has the appearance of blinking due to being displayed in more than one color in
15     succession.
                [0124]     In some embodiments, pressing the mode button allows the user to
       cycle through the settings screens. When adjustments have been made, the apparatus 22
       reverts to the swirling icon (see S-4) or the summary screen (see S-5) after an inactivity
       period has elapsed or after a particular key combination is pressed (e.g., holding down
20     the mute, up, and down buttons for at least a minimum period of time).
       Value Level Settings
                [0125]     As discussed above, on the main multiple value screen (see S-5) of
       the illustrated embodiment, the display screen 40 can illustrate current dew point
       temperature, current flow rate and current oxygen level, for example but without
25     limitation. These values are based upon real time readings. In some embodiments, the
       readings are made during warm up as well as during use. During any changes to the
       readings (e.g., until set points have been reached), the numbers flash between a white
       illustration and a colored illustration to provide a visual pulsing effect such as that
       described above. Once a set point value (e.g., the target value) has been obtained, the
30     number will go solid.
                                                   -24-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0126]     With reference to Figure 6C, in any mode, when not on the main
       screen (e.g., when on the temperature target screen and/or the flow target screen),
       depressing the mode button will cycle among a plurality of values. The values can be
       represented by smaller icons or other shapes that, when selected, increase in size and
 5     possibly detail. The plurality of smaller icons or other shapes facilitate an expandable
       scrolling menu that allows a large number of values to be displayed even on a smaller
       display screen 40. See S-18.1. While the illustrated configuration depicts a temperature
       target screen (S-14), a flow rate target screen (S-15) and an oxygen level alarm target
       screen (S-16), any number of additional screens can be presented.        For example, the
10     apparatus 22 can display a day/night sub-mode screen, a transport mode screen, or the
       like. Each of these screens can be used to select a value within the preset range (e.g., the
       range specified in S-12 and S13). In some configurations, a default setting for the dew
       point temperature target is 37 C.
                [0127]     In any mode, when not on the main screen, depressing the up and
15     down arrows together for at least a minimum period of time will allow the user to adjust
       the temperature target (S-17) and/or the flow rate target (S-18). In some configurations,
       these values are locked and depressing the up arrow key 46 and the down arrow key 50
       at the same time for at least a minimum period of time can unlock the values.           The
       unlocking of the values for adjustment can be audibly indicated (e.g., a solid tone, series
20     of tones, click, voice, music, chimes, etc.).
                [0128]     Once unlocked, the values for the target temperature and the target
       flow rate can be adjusted within the preset range of values using the up arrow key and
       the down arrow key. See S-17 and S-18. For example, in some configurations, the dew
       point temperature can be adjusted between 31 C and 37 C. For example, 31 C might be
25     used if delivery of the flow is through a mask, while 37 C might be used where upper
       airway is bypassed (e.g., tracheotomy) and 34 C might be used for a small, petite patient
       receiving nasal gas delivery. By way of further example, the flow rate may be adjusted
       within a range of about 15 L/min. and 50 L/min. While not illustrated, the oxygen level
       at which the apparatus will alarm can be adjusted within a range of 20% and 90% (i.e.,
30     any adjustment of oxygen levels will be made at the wall valve or another valve).
                                                     -25-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0129]     When on the temperature adjustment screen, pressing the mode
       button 52 for at least a minimum period of time (e.g., at least about 5 seconds) can
       display the transport mode screens. See S-17.1 and S-17.2. The up and down arrows
       can be used to alternate between selecting the normal mode or the transport mode.
 5     Pressing the mode button again confirms the selection.          In the transport mode, the
       temperature setting for the heater plate can be reduced (e.g., typically to about 31 C from
       about 37 C in the normal mode). In some embodiments, entering the transport mode can
       cause the apparatus 22 to reduce or minimize power usage by the heater plate 80,
       motors, and the like. The reduction or minimization of power can be done to reduce
10     power consumption when connected to a universal power supply ("UPS") for
       transportation from one location to another when the apparatus cannot or will not be
       plugged into an electrical socket. When in transport mode, the apparatus 22 can have a
       countdown timer with a preset period of time (e.g., about 30 minutes), after the
       expiration of which the apparatus 22 automatically reverts to a normal mode of
15     operation.   The screen can display the temperature setting and the countdown timer
       indicating when the apparatus will automatically revert to a normal mode of operation.
       In some embodiments, the countdown timer can be reset by the user if the transportation
       will last longer than the timer provides. In some embodiments, the apparatus reverts to
       the mode of operation it was in prior to being put into the transportation mode. In some
20     embodiments, the transportation mode screen (S-17.2) can display other information or
       indicators, such as a flow rate, an oxygen setting, a youth-sub mode, or the like.
                [0130]     In some embodiments, the apparatus 22 can be configured to enter
       transport mode when connected to a UPS.           The apparatus 22 can be configured to
       understand and communicate appropriate handshake protocols with UPS systems so as
25     to recognize when it is connected to a UPS rather than an electrical wall socket. In some
       embodiments, the apparatus 22 can remain in transport mode until disconnected from
       the UPS and/or connected to an electrical wall socket.
                [0131]     Following adjustment, the selected value will be locked after a set
       period of time (e.g., five or seven seconds) or when the mode button 52 is pressed to
30     move to the next screen. After a preset period of time, when adjustments have been
                                                   -26-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       made, the apparatus 22 reverts to the swirling icon (see S-4) or the summary screen (see
       S-5) after an inactivity period has elapsed or when a defined key combination has been
       pressed.
       Youth Sub-mode
 5              [0132]     In either the primary mode or the secondary mode, at any time during
       warm-up (see S-4) or after the apparatus is ready for use and when the main screen is
       visible (see S-5), the apparatus 22 enters a youth sub-mode when the mode button 52 is
       pressed for at least a minimum period of time (e.g., about 10 seconds), as illustrated in
       Figure 6D. After each disinfection, which should be performed after use and prior to a
10     subsequent patient/user, the apparatus 22 can be configured to require depression of the
       mode button 52 to enter the youth sub-mode. This forces an acknowledgement on the
       part of the person operating the apparatus 22 that the settings have changed. In other
       words, the person operating the apparatus must consciously depress and hold the mode
       button 52.
15              [0133]     Upon entry into the youth sub-mode, one or more entrance screen can
       be provided. See S-19. At least one entrance screen, in some embodiments, is distinct
       from the default mode entrance screen. In the illustrated configuration, attention-getting
       animations are provided on the youth sub-mode entrance screen. The animations in the
       illustrated configuration are a butterfly and a bird. The butterfly and the bird move onto
20     the screen. In some configurations, the butterfly and the bird can move inward from the
       edges of the screen to attract attention.
                [0134]     The apparatus 22, when first entering the youth sub-mode, can adjust
       the target temperature and/or the target flow rate. In some configurations, the target
       temperature is adjusted to a level lower than the level available in the default (e.g.,
25     primary or secondary) mode, which was discussed above. In some configurations, the
       target temperature in the youth sub-mode is about 34 C. The target flow rate can be set
       to the flow rate closest to the prior setting in the default (e.g., primary or secondary)
       mode. If the prior flow was above the youth sub-mode range, then the highest flow in
       the range will be selected. If the prior flow was within the youth sub-mode range, then
30     the prior flow will be used. In some configurations, if the target flow rate set in the
                                                   -27-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       default (e.g., primary or secondary) mode is above about 20 L/min, the target flow rate
       will adjust to 20 L/min in the youth sub-mode. If the apparatus 22 has been used in the
       youth sub-mode previously, the apparatus 22 will recall the settings from the prior use in
       the youth sub-mode and set the targets according to the prior settings. See S-20.
 5              [0135]     An additional animation (e.g., an eye and water bag) also can be
       provided to remind the person operating the apparatus 22 that the water supply should be
       monitored because there may be no water out alarm in the youth sub-mode. See S-21.
       Because the youth sub-mode involves lower flow rates, the rate of evaporation is slower
       than at higher flow rates. Because there may be no humidity sensor, detection of low
10     water conditions can be based upon a comparison of the energy required to operate with
       a full chamber and the energy required to run with no water in the chamber.          In the
       default (e.g., primary or secondary) mode, if the current state is trending toward no
       water, then an alarm is issued.     At low flow rates, the difference may be not large
       enough to detect reliably. The detection is based upon the duty cycle applied to the
15     heater plate. Because less water is evaporated at low flow rates, the change may be too
       subtle to reliably and repeatably detect.
                [0136]     Following the depiction of the animations, the new target settings will
       be presented. See S-22. In addition, the swirling icon discussed above can be presented
       to demonstrate visually that the apparatus 22 is still warming up. Upon completion of
20     the warm up, the swirling icon can be replaced with a check-mark (i.e., tick). See S-23.
       As discussed above, after a period of inactivity, a screen saver mode can be entered. See
       S-24.
       Feedback Sub-mode
                [0137]     In any of the primary mode, the secondary mode, or the associated
25     youth sub-modes, the apparatus 22 can comprise a feedback sub-mode. The feedback
       sub-mode can be selected by the user or can be automatically selected by the apparatus.
       For example, if a detected breathing rate exceeds a predetermined breathing rate, the
       apparatus can enter the feedback sub-mode to assist the user in attaining a desired
       breathing pattern or breathing rate. The feedback sub-mode can provide visual and/or
                                                  -28-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       audible cues to coach a patient/user to obtain the desired breathing pattern or breathing
       rate.
       Disinfection Mode
                [0138]     After shutdown, the disinfection conduit 82 can be connected to the
 5     apparatus 22. On one end, the disinfection conduit 82 has the same connector as the
       patient conduit 26. On the other end, the disinfection conduit 82 is sized and configured
       to mate to the outlet 72 from the flow generator. The heater wire 84 with the same
       resistance as the heater wire 30 in the patient conduit 26 can be installed within the
       disinfection conduit 82. In some embodiments, the disinfection conduit 82 does not
10     include a temperature sensor. The disinfection conduit 82 can be coaxial in construction
       with an insulating sleeve surrounding the conduit that defines the flow path such that
       insulating air can be trapped between the inner conduit and the outer sleeve.
                [0139]     The filter cap 86 can be joined to the end of the disinfection conduit
       82 opposite to the connector with the heater wire connection. The cap 86 can be joined
15     by a strap to the disinfection conduit 82 to reduce the likelihood of the cap 86 being lost
       between uses. During disinfection, the cap 86 can be installed over the inlet 74 to the
       elbow 76, as will be described below.
                [0140]     In some embodiments, the elbow 76 is mechanically cleaned (e.g.,
       bottle brush) and chemically cleaned before the disinfection conduit 82 is connected to
20     the elbow 76.     The disinfection conduit 82 is connected to the outlet of the flow
       generator and the outlet 72 of the elbow 76 such that flow through the elbow 76 is
       reversed relative to the norm.
                [0141]     The cap 86 can be installed over the other end of the elbow 76. The
       cap 86 is secured with an outer sleeve that overlaps an outer surface of the port. The cap
25     comprises a filter medium and a protruding member. The protruding member reduces
       the likelihood of the cap being installed on the outlet from the flow generator because
       the protruding member contacts a non-return valve positioned within the outlet from the
       pressurized air source. The protruding member also decreases the size of the flow path
       to increase the velocity of the airflow through a non-heated region disposed between the
30     end of the heated disinfection conduit 82 and the discharge point of the filter cap 86. In
                                                   -29-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       addition, the rapid expansion of the higher speed airflow as it exits the cap 86 causes a
       rapid decrease in temperature of the air. Thus, there is a high disinfection temperature
       right up until the discharge point of the filter cap 86, following which the temperature
       drops dramatically.
 5              [0142]     With reference to Figure 7, with disinfection conduit 82 installed, the
       apparatus 22 is turned on by pressing the power key 42. See U-1.        The system detects
       the disinfection conduit 82 because the temperature sensor is not included in the
       disinfection conduit 82 but the resistance of the heater wire 84 is detected. Because of
       the detection of the presence of the disinfection conduit 82, the disinfection mode begins
10     and start screens are provided to the display 40. See U-2. Other manners of starting the
       disinfection mode also can be used.
                [0143]     The display then presents a swirling icon similar to that described
       above to indicate that the apparatus 22 is warming up. See U-3. In some embodiments,
       the swirling icon has a different color to indicate that the apparatus 22 is warming up for
15     disinfection mode instead of normal operation.             In some configurations, other
       animations or indicators can be used.
                [0144]     The apparatus 22 monitors usage conditions and, when a target usage
       limit has been reached, the apparatus 22 provides a suggestion to replace the inlet air
       filter.   See U-4.   As shown in Figures 8A-8D, in the illustrated configuration, the
20     apparatus 22 presents an animation illustrating removal and replacement of the air filter.
       The animation presents the cover being removed, the old filter being removed, the new
       filter being inserted and the cover being replaced.         The animation can comprise a
       plurality of frames that show slight movement from one frame to the next such that
       presenting the frames in series provides a visual animation. In some embodiments, a
25     portion of the image sequence presents a "zoomed-in" display of a portion of the
       apparatus, such as the filter cover in Figure 8C. This may be advantageous to show
       detailed visual information and/or to present detailed visual information on a relatively
       small display or a display with relatively few pixels (e.g., a display with a relatively low
       resolution). In some embodiments, the apparatus 22 can be configured to produce an
30     audible cue or sound at the time in the animation when the filter cover is shown as being
                                                    -30-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       closed, the audible cue being used to indicate that a sound should be produced when the
       filter cover is correctly closed. Other animations and/or audible cues can be used.
                [0145]      Returning to Figure 7, the apparatus 22 can be configured to request
       an acknowledgment of an indication to replace the filter. In the illustrated configuration,
 5     the apparatus 22 requests pressing of the mode button 52 in order to proceed with
       disinfection.    Accordingly, the suggestion to replace the air filter is acknowledged
       through the pressing of the mode button 52.
                [0146]      As discussed above, during start-up, a colored swirling icon can be
       used. See U-3. Following start-up, the system monitors temperature in the elbow 76 to
10     detect whether the temperature is rising fast enough in accordance with a disinfection
       mode. Because the disinfection conduit 82 has a heater 84 and because the airflow is
       being heated by the heater 84 prior to delivery to the sensor in the elbow 76, the
       temperature profile varies relative to having a breathing conduit 26 with a heater 30
       positioned after the elbow 76 and a chamber 70 positioned before the elbow 76.
15              [0147]      During the disinfection process, a counter is used to show progress.
       See U-5. The counter can count down the amount of time remaining in the disinfection
       mode. Pressing the mode button 52 will present a graphical display that updates to show
       progress of the disinfection. See U-6. The graphical display can be temperature over
       time and a colored bar can be presented to graphically depict the amount of time over a
20     set temperature (e.g., 90 C). In some embodiments, this is a display that dynamically
       updates as the disinfection cycle progresses. At the end of the disinfection cycle, the
       display alternates between announcing a successful completion and the total number of
       successful disinfections. In some embodiments, announcing the successful completion
       can comprise displaying visual information, emitting a sound, or some combination of
25     both visual and audible cues.
       Secondary mode
                [0148]      As discussed above, the apparatus 22 can be operated in a secondary
       mode, which can be designed for more intermittent use (e.g., home use). With reference
       to Figures 9A-9C, in the secondary mode, the apparatus 22 operates in many ways
                                                   -31-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       similar to the operation of the apparatus 22 in the primary mode. One of the differences,
       however, relates to the setting of values.
                [0149]     With reference to Figure 9A, in the illustrated embodiment, the
       display screen 40 either illustrates the swirling icon (see T-1) discussed above or a
 5     checkmark (i.e., tick) (see T-2) also discussed above. As discussed above, current dew
       point temperature, current flow rate and current oxygen level, for example but without
       limitation, can be monitored by the apparatus. These values are based upon real time
       readings.    In some embodiments, the readings are made during warm up as well as
       during use.
10              [0150]     In the secondary mode, when the swirling icon (T-1) or the
       checkmark (T-2) is presented, depressing the mode button 52 will cycle among a
       plurality of values (T-4, T-5, and T-6), similar to the process depicted in Figure 6C. The
       values can be represented by smaller icons or other shapes that, when selected, increase
       in size and possibly detail. The plurality of smaller icons or other shapes facilitate an
15     expandable scrolling menu that allows a large number of values to be displayed even on
       a smaller display screen 40, as shown in S-18.1.
                [0151]     While the illustrated configuration depicts a temperature target screen
       (T-4), a flow rate target screen (T-5) and an oxygen level alarm screen (T-6), any
       number of additional screens can be presented. In some configurations, a screen can be
20     provided for night-use sub-mode. In the night use sub-mode, non-alarming noises are
       quieted or cancelled and the brightness of the display screen 40 is adjusted. In some
       configurations, the apparatus also can display the number of hours, the average hours per
       day and a value that can be used by a doctor to confirm that accurate numbers are being
       provided by the user. Moreover, compliance data can be exported using any suitable
25     technique. For example, a serial cable can be plugged into a data port and a USB based
       modem. Each of these screens can be used to review data or select a value within a
       preset range. In some embodiments, in the secondary mode, the values are not locked
       and are easily adjusted without performing an unlocking operation, which can be
       different from the primary mode as described with reference to Figure 6C.           After a
                                                   -32-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       period of inactivity, when adjustments have been made, the apparatus 22 reverts to the
       swirling icon (see T-1) or the checkmark screen (see T-2).
                [0152]     Comparing Figures 6A-6D with Figures 9A-9C, another distinction
       can be shown between the youth sub-mode in the primary mode and the youth sub-mode
 5     in the secondary mode. In particular, during warm up (S-22), (T-7) and following warm
       up (S-23), (T-8), in the primary mode, data is presented regarding various characteristics
       of operation while, in the secondary mode, the screen does not present the data. This is
       similar to the screen shown after warm up in the secondary mode (compare S-5 and T
       2). While it is possible to present the data in the secondary mode, such data may be less
10     relevant to an intermittent, home-type of user.
       Drying Mode in Secondary mode
                [0153]     Following use in the secondary mode, the user presses the power
       button 42.    Upon shut-down, an audible alert is made and the apparatus 22 enters a
       drying mode. During drying mode, the apparatus 22 turns off power to the heater plate
15     80, increases the temperature in the conduit 26 by increasing the heat generated by the
       heater wire 30 and the flow rate is changed to an appropriate value.             In some
       applications, the flow rate is set to about 15 L/min in default mode (e.g., primary mode
       or secondary mode) or about 10 L/min in the youth sub-modes.
                [0154]     In some configurations, during the drying sub-mode, the apparatus 22,
20     including the conduit 26, is controlled to maintain total enthalpy below a desired
       enthalpy limit as measured at the patient/user end of the conduit 26. For example, as the
       chamber cools, the temperature of the conduit 26 can be increased by increasing the heat
       output of the conduit heater wire 30. In some configurations, the enthalpy limit is less
       than about 194 kJ/kg dry gas when averaged over 30 seconds. In some configurations,
25     the enthalpy limit is about 194 kJ/Kg dry gas when averaged over 30 seconds.
                [0155]     The drying sub-mode continues for a drying period. At the end of the
       drying period, the apparatus 22 shuts down.
       Fault Conditions
                [0156]     During operation in any of the modes or sub-modes, a number of
30     operating conditions for the apparatus 22 are monitored for fault conditions. Each fault
                                                   -33-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       condition that is correctable by a user can be configured to have one or more animations
       showing the problem and/or how to fix the problem. As described above with respect to
       replacing the filter (see Figures 8A-8D), each animation can comprise a plurality of
       frames that show slight movement from one frame to the next such that presenting the
 5     frames in series provides a visual animation. While certain animations will be discussed
       below, other animations can be used. Accordingly, the apparatus 22 can be configured
       to detect fault conditions, select an appropriate animation to display, and detect when the
       fault condition has been corrected. The selected animation can highlight or indicate the
       location or components causing the fault condition, illustrate how to correct the fault
10     condition, and provide indicators of success in correcting the fault condition. In some
       embodiments, the animation only proceeds to a following step when the current step is
       completed. In some embodiments, the animation is repeated until the fault condition is
       corrected. In some embodiments, the animation is automatically stopped when the fault
       condition is corrected. When a fault condition occurs, the apparatus 22 can provide an
15     alarm that can include any combination of audible sounds and visual indicators. The
       alarm can continue until the fault condition is corrected. For example, the alarm can be
       configured to automatically cease when the apparatus 22 detects that the problem has
       been fixed.
                [0157]     In some embodiments, the animations can include a series of images
20     that present "zoomed-in" pictures or animations of the apparatus 22. For example, for
       selected parts of the animation, the zoomed-in animation can show sections of the
       apparatus 22 in more detail to illustrate elements that may otherwise be unclear on a
       display 40 with a relatively low resolution, such as the display 40 that may be included
       on the apparatus 22. For example, the series of images can include a first subset of
25     images depicting the apparatus 22 with a first level of detail and a second subset of
       images depicting a second level of detail, the second level of detail being greater than
       the first level of detail. This second level of detail can be a zoomed-in depiction of the
       apparatus, and the zoomed-in depiction can be configured to include a region of interest
       on the apparatus 22 meriting attention.
                                                    -34-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0158]     In some configurations, noises or audible cues can be used in
       conjunction with the animations. The audible cues can be timed to coincide with the
       display of actions in the animations.       In some embodiments, the audible cues are
       configured to simulate or approximate a sound that would be produced when the
 5     animated action occurs.
                [0159]     In some configurations, flashing lights, colors, glowing effects, and/or
       other visual cues can be presented in the animations to indicate portions of the address
       meriting attention (e.g., showing a glowing red effect around a region of interest). These
       components may be in fault or may be one of the causes of the fault condition that
10     triggered the animation.     The visual cues can also be used to indicate the corrected
       problem, such as how a component should be positioned when it is in the correct
       location (e.g., showing a glowing green effect around the corrected region of interest).
       For example, the chamber 70 can be animated to glow red when not properly seated in
       the apparatus 22, and the animation can illustrate the chamber being correctly positioned
15     and the glowing changing to a green effect.
                [0160]     With reference to Figures 8A-8D, if the apparatus 22 detects that a
       filter replacement is warranted (e.g., if the apparatus 22 detects that it has been in use
       without a filter replacement for over a minimum number of hours, an example of which
       is described with reference to U-4 in Figure 7), the apparatus 22 can display a series of
20     images depicting removal and replacement of a filter.        For example, Figures 8A-8D
       depict removal of the filter cover, exposing the filter. Beginning at the bottom of Figure
       8A and into Figure 8B, the series of images depict the used filter being removed from
       the apparatus. Beginning at the bottom of Figure 8B and into Figure 8C, the series of
       images depict the new filter being installed into the apparatus.         Once the filter is
25     installed, the series of images depict closing the filter cover.      The series of images
       include a zoomed-in depiction of the filter cover being fastened onto the apparatus
       housing starting in Figure 8C and into Figure 8D.        The zoomed-in series of images
       present the filter cover and housing in greater detail to provide more information to the
       user to enable the user to better close and secure the filter cover in place. In some
30     embodiments, the apparatus 22 can play an audible cue (e.g., a clicking noise or other
                                                    -35-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       appropriate sound) to coincide with the depiction of the filter cover being correctly
       seated or locked-in, as illustrated in the final image in Figure 8D. The audible cue can
       be configured to provide the user with an indication of an expected sound to be
       produced when the animated action is performed correctly.
 5              [0161]     With reference to Figure 10, if a disconnection from the conduit
       heater wire is detected, the apparatus indicates a removal of the circuit. See W-1. There
       can be an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime,
       music, etc.) that indicates a disconnection of the circuit.      The display can show an
       animation of the circuit being removed and being reconnected.          Some of the images
10     from such an animation are shown in Figure 11. For example, the series of images in
       Figure 11 depict the circuit being removed from the apparatus by disengaging the
       connector from the outlet end of the elbow and lifting the circuit. In some embodiments,
       the apparatus 22 can emit an audible cue when the circuit is depicted as being removed
       from the apparatus. The audible cue can be configured to approximate or simulate a
15     sound that would be produced when disengaging the circuit from the apparatus.
                [0162]     If a loss of resistance to flow is detected (e.g., a system leak, a
       dislodged interface, a dislodged chamber, etc.), there can be an audible alarm (e.g., three
       short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime, music, etc.) that indicates a leak in
       the system.     The display 40 can show an animation or a series of animations.           For
20     example but without limitation, the animations can demonstrate reseating the chamber
       and reseating the interface to the circuit. Similarly, if the apparatus is in the youth sub
       mode and an adult cannula is connected, the system indicates a possible leak and issues
       an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime, music,
       etc.). The apparatus 22 also can present an illustration showing the connection of the
25     youth sub-mode cannula (e.g., infant cannula).
                [0163]     If a higher than expected resistance to flow is detected (e.g., a system
       blockage), there can be an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series
       of tones, chime, music, etc.) that indicates a blockage in the system. See W-3. The
       display 40 can show an animation or a series of animations. For example but without
30     limitation, the animations can demonstrate unkinking a hose, determining if the youth
                                                    -36-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       sub-mode interface is installed in the default primary mode or secondary mode,
       unclogging a nasal cannula, or the like.
                [0164]     If oxygen content is detected above the set level, the system can issue
       an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime, music,
 5     etc.) and can present an animation illustrating how to decrease the flow of oxygen at the
       wall connection. See W-4. Similarly, if oxygen content is detected below the set level,
       the system can issue an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of
       tones, chime, music, etc.) and can present an animation illustrating how to increase the
       flow of oxygen at the wall connection. See W-5.
10              [0165]     If the water level is detected to be low or empty, the system can issue
       an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime, music,
       etc.) and can present an animation illustrating how to remove a depleted water bag and
       attach a new water bag. See W-6.
                [0166]     If an oxygen supply is detected during operation in the disinfection
15     mode, the apparatus 22 can issue an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single
       tone, series of tones, chime, music, etc.) and can present an animation illustrating how to
       remove the oxygen supply. See W-7. In some embodiments, when such a condition is
       presented, power is not provided to the conduit heater 84 until after the condition has
       been rectified.
20              [0167]     The apparatus 22 might alarm if the apparatus 22 detects a
       disconnection, depletion or prolonged interruption of the oxygen supply (e.g., if the
       oxygen level drops below a certain percentage for a preset period of time, if there is a
       sudden drop or change in the oxygen level or both). In some configurations, the alarm
       triggering thresholds indicative of oxygen level events can be different in different
25     modes or sub-modes. In some embodiments, when such a condition is presented, the
       apparatus can issue an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of
       tones, chime, music, etc.) and the display can present an animation illustrating how to
       check the connection of the oxygen supply.
                [0168]     The apparatus 22 also might alarm if user breathing is no longer
30     detected. In some embodiments, when such a condition is presented, the apparatus can
                                                    -37-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       issue an audible alarm (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime,
       music, etc.) and the display can present an animation illustrating how to check for a
       displaced user interface, a disconnected user interface or an adverse clinical event.
                [0169]     The apparatus 22 might alarm if a user breathing rate exceeds a
 5     predetermined limit. In some embodiments, when such a condition is presented, the
       apparatus can issue an audible alarm (e.g., three short tones) and the display can present
       an animation demonstrating the breathing rate, for example but without limitation.
                [0170]     Any number of other fault conditions also can be detected and other
       alarms can ensue from such fault conditions. For example, but without limitation, the
10     apparatus 22 might alarm if the target dew point temperature cannot be reached, if the
       target flow rate cannot be reached, or if there is another operating condition that should
       be checked and/or corrected. Any or all of these can be indicated with an audible alarm
       (e.g., three short monotones, single tone, series of tones, chime, music, etc.) and/or an
       animation or other fault code screen. See W-8. In some embodiments, the audible alarm
15     can be accompanied by animations and the animations and/or the audible alarms can
       stop automatically when the apparatus 22 detects that the fault conditions has been fixed.
       Accordingly, the apparatus 22 can be configured to automatically detect the presence
       and rectification of fault conditions.
                [0171]     The display also can show an international symbol for alarm (e.g., a
20     symbol compliant with IEC 60601-1-8).          See W-9.   If the mute button is depressed
       during the alarm, a mute symbol is displayed on the screen and the sound from the alarm
       can be disabled for a set period of time (e.g., 120 seconds). See W-10. Once any fault
       condition is resolved, an audible notification can result (e.g., three climbing scale tones)
       and the system can revert to normal operation.
25              [0172]     Thus, in some configurations, the apparatus 22 is configured to
       prompt users to perform maintenance tasks and troubleshooting through the use of
       animations or other graphical displays. For example, the apparatus can indicate a desire
       for a filter replacement as well as coach an individual through changing the filter with a
       visual representation of the actions to be taken. By way of other examples, the apparatus
30     22 can indicate how to perform disinfection or how to clean the device.
                                                    -38-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                [0173]     Moreover, in some configurations, the apparatus 22 can recognize
       certain fault conditions with the apparatus 20 and coach a person to correct the
       recognized fault through a video animation of the corrective action or corrective actions
       desired. For example, where several different causes can underlie a detected loss of
 5     resistance to flow, the apparatus 22 can demonstrate several connections and other
       components to check to restore the anticipated resistance to flow. Where fault codes are
       primarily used in the apparatus 22 to indicate fault conditions (e.g., E14), it may be
       problematic for the user 10 to know how to correct the fault based solely upon the fault
       codes provided by the apparatus 22. Thus, presentation of animations, visual cues, and
10     audible cues can facilitate the rectification of fault conditions.
                [0174]     Figures 12A-12M illustrates a series of images used in an example
       animation showing a chamber installation sequence.           The animation can be used to
       indicate a region of interest causing the fault condition.         As an example, this is
       illustrated in Figures 12A and 12B which, when alternated, display a flashing glowing
15     region surrounding the chamber.        In some embodiments, the flashing glowing region
       surrounding the chamber is red, but other colors can be used.           The animation can
       continue and display another glowing region indicating an action to be taken by the user.
       An example of this is shown in Figures 12C and 12D which, when alternated, display a
       flashing glowing region surrounding the user's fingers where force should be applied to
20     the chamber. The flashing glowing region can be colored green to show that this is a
       correct action, and other colors may be used.         The animation can show the result of
       performing the action indicated in Figures 12C-12E, by showing the chamber slide into
       place in the apparatus (shown in Figures 12F-12M). The animation can zoom-in to the
       apparatus to show greater detail. For example, the animation can zoom-in beginning in
25     Figure 12F to show the finger guard move into place once the chamber is clear of the
       guard (as shown in Figure 12L).         Prior to the chamber being clear of the guard, the
       animation can show the finger guard with a flashing glowing region surrounding it (as
       shown when Figures 121 and 12J are presented in an alternating fashion), and the
       flashing glowing region can be a first color (e.g., red). When the chamber is correctly
30     positioned, as shown in Figure 12L, the finger guard can be shown with a differently
                                                     -39-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       colored (e.g., green) flashing glowing region (as shown when Figures 12L and 12M are
       presented in an alternating fashion). The animation can be accompanied by an audible
       cue, such as a clicking sound, when the finger guard moves into position in Figure 12L.
       The audible cue can be configured to approximate or simulate the sound of the finger
 5     guard clicking into position when the chamber is correctly positioned.
                [0175]     Although the disclosure herein has been presented in terms of some
       embodiments, other embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art also are
       within the scope of this disclosure. Thus, various changes and modifications may be
       made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.        For instance,
10     various components may be repositioned as desired. Moreover, not all of the features,
       aspects and advantages are necessarily required to practice embodiments encompassed
       by this disclosure. Accordingly, the scope of each of the claimed inventions is intended
       to be defined only by the claims that follow.
                                                   -40-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
       WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                1.      A breathing assistance apparatus comprising:
                        a flow generator;
                        a humidifier chamber connected to the flow generator;
 5                      a conduit connected to the flow generator;
                        a user breathing interface connected to the conduit; and
                        a display screen adapted to provide visual information to a user,
                        wherein    the  apparatus    is   configured  to monitor    one or more
                characteristics of use, and upon an occurrence of a triggering event to provide a
10              series of image frames to the display, the series of image frames depicting an
                animated action configured to instruct a user to make an adjustment to the
                apparatus based upon the animated action to address the occurrence of the
                triggering event.
                2.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the triggering event comprises usage
15     exceeding an upper limit of time.
                3.      The apparatus of Claim 2, wherein the animated action comprises steps
       for replacing a filter.
                4.      The apparatus of Claim 3, wherein the animated action comprises a
       sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
20              5.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises a button and
       depression of the button stops the display of the series of image frames.
                6.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the triggering event comprises
       detection of at least one of a faulty heater wire, a faulty conduit temperature sensor, or a
       disconnected conduit.
25              7.      The apparatus of Claim 6, wherein the animated action comprises steps
       for replacing a breathing conduit.
                8.      The apparatus of Claim 7, wherein the animated action comprises a
       sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                9.      The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the triggering event comprises an
30     increase in resistance to flow.
                                                     -41-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                10.    The apparatus of Claim 9, wherein the animated action comprises steps
       for unbending a conduit, unclogging an interface, or checking that the correct interface is
       connected to the conduit.
                11.    The apparatus of Claim 10, wherein the animated action comprises a
 5     sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                12.    The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the triggering event comprises
       detecting a presence of an oxygen supply during disinfection mode.
                13.    The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein the animated action comprises steps
       for removing the oxygen supply.
10              14.    The apparatus of Claim 13, wherein the animated action comprises a
       sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                15.    The apparatus of Claim 12, wherein the apparatus also shuts off power to
       a disinfection conduit heater until the triggering event is corrected.
                16.    The apparatus of Claim 1, wherein the triggering event comprises one of
15     usage exceeding an upper limit of time, detecting a faulty heater wire, detecting a faulty
       conduit temperature sensor, detecting a disconnected conduit, a reduction in resistance
       to flow, an increase in resistance to flow, detecting an oxygen level outside of a desired
       oxygen level, detecting a low water supply level, detecting a presence of an oxygen
       supply during disinfection mode, detecting disconnection of an oxygen supply, detecting
20     depletion or prolonged interruption of an oxygen supply, failing to detect a breathing
       pattern, or a breathing rate exceeding a predetermined breathing rate; and the animated
       action comprises a sequence that repeats until the triggering event is corrected.
                17.    A breathing assistance apparatus comprising:
                       a flow generator;
25                     a humidifier chamber coupled to the flow generator;
                       a conduit coupled to the flow generator;
                       a user breathing interface connected to the conduit;
                       a controller electrically coupled to the apparatus; and
                       a display screen electrically coupled to the controller and adapted to
30             provide visual information to a user,
                                                    -42-

  FPHCR.297WO
  CHW 234934PCTPR
                       wherein the apparatus is configured to:
                               monitor one or more characteristics of use;
                               detect an occurrence of a triggering event using the controller, the
                       detection of the triggering event being at least partly based on the
 5                     monitored characteristics of use;
                               select a series of image frames depicting an animated action; and
                               provide the series of image frames to the display,
                               wherein the animated action is configured to instruct a user to
                       make an adjustment to the apparatus based upon the animated action to
10                     address the occurrence of the triggering event by providing visual cues in
                       the series of image frames indicating a region of interest and at least one
                       audible cue corresponding to an occurrence of an action in the series of
                       image frames wherein the audible cue and the occurrence of the action
                       are configured to be presented substantially simultaneously.
15              18.    The apparatus of Claim 17, wherein the audible cue is configured to
       approximate a sound produced when the action occurs.
                19.    The apparatus of Claim 17, wherein the visual cues comprise flashing
       lights surrounding the region of interest.
                20.    The apparatus of Claim 17, wherein the series of image frames comprises
20     a first subset of image frames depicting the apparatus with a first level of detail and a
       second subset of image frames depicting a second level of detail, the second level of
       detail being greater than the first level of detail.
                21.    The apparatus of Claim 20, wherein the second subset of image frames
       presents a zoomed-in depiction of a portion of the apparatus that includes the region of
25     interest.
                22.    The apparatus of Claim 17, wherein the one or more characteristics of use
       includes at least one of usage time, heater wire status, oxygen supply status, temperature
       sensor status, conduit status, water level, flow rate, resistance to flow, oxygen level,
       breathing rate, gas temperature, or heater plate power.
30
                                                     -43-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
