                                       Abstract
  A device, comprising a reaction chamber which comprises a first binding member
  adapted for capturing target compounds and a second binding member adapted for
  capturing reporter compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target
5 compounds, wherein the first binding member comprises synthetic particles, beads or
  a porous matrix configured to bind complexes of a capture compound and a target
  compound and wherein the second binding member is a microarray of reporter
  specific capture compounds arranged on a surface.

                                                                                 P/00/011
                                                                            Regulation 3.2
                                    AUSTRALIA
                                   Patents Act 1990
                 COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                     FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                    ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        CLONDIAG GMBH
Actual Inventors:         Eugen ERMANTRAUT
                          Torsten SCHULZ
                          Thomas KAISER
                          Katrin STEINMETZER
Address for Service:      Houlihan', Level 1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                         Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          ASSAYS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best
method of performing it known to the Applicant:
                                            1

                                                 2
                                           ASSAYS
            The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
   Application No. <removed-apn>, which is in turn a Divisional from Australian Patent
 5 Application No. 2014200826, which is in turn a Divisional from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2007316672. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent
   Application Nos. <removed-apn>, 2014200826, 2007316672 and their corresponding
   International Application, PCT/EP2007/061953, are incorporated herein by
   reference.
10
                                       PRIORITY CLAIM
            This application claims priority from U.S. Application No. 60/951,364, filed
   July 23, 2007 and U.S. Application No. 60/856,782, filed November 6, 2006, each of
   which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
15
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to assays, for example, assays for
   polynucleotides.
20                               RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application is related to the U.S. continuation of International Patent
   Application PCT/EP2005/004923, filed on May 6, 2005, which designates the United
   States and claims priority to German Patent Application DE 10 2004 022 263, filed
   May 6, 2004, the U.S. continuation having serial No. US 11/593,021 entitled
25 "Method and Device for the Detection of Molecular Interactions" and being filed
   November 6, 2006, each of which applications is hereby incorporated by reference in
   its entirety.
                                        BACKGROUND
30          The presence of a pathogen in a biological sample can be determined by
   assaying the sample for a polynucleotide associated with the presence of the

                                                3
   pathogen. Bacteria, mold, and viruses are examples of pathogens that can be
   determined based on an assay for associated polynucleotides.
           EP 0 637 999 discloses devices for amplifying a preselected polynucleotide in
   a sample by conducting a polynucleotide polymerization reaction. The devices
 5 include a substrate microfabricated to define a sample inlet port and a mesoscale
   flow system, which extends from the inlet port. The mesoscale flow system includes
   a polynucleotide polymerization reaction chamber in fluid communication with the
   inlet port which is provided with reagents required for polymerization and
   amplification of a preselected polynucleotide. The devices can be utilized to
10 implement a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the reaction chamber (PCR
   chamber). The PCR chamber is provided with the sample polynucleotide,
   polymerase, nucleoside triphosphates, primers and other reagents required for the
   polymerase chain reaction, and the device is provided with means for thermally
   controlling the temperature of the contents of the reaction chamber at a temperature
15 controlled to dehybridize double-stranded polynucleotide, to anneal the primers, and
   to polymerize and amplify the polynucleotide.
           However, it can be difficult to properly coordinate various tasks of
   conventional microfluidic devices.
20                                       SUMMARY
           There can be a need for a device enabling sample analysis in a simple
   manner.
           In one aspect, a device comprises a reaction chamber which comprises a first
   binding member adapted for capturing target compounds and a second binding
25 member adapted for capturing reporter compounds indicative of the presence and/or
   amount of the target compounds, wherein the first binding member comprises
   synthetic particles, beads or a porous matrix configured to bind complexes of a
   capture compound and a target compound and wherein the second binding member is
   a microarray of reporter specific capture compounds arranged on a surface.
30         A device that can be used in the performance of the invention may include a
   rigid substrate, a flexible cover element at least partially covering the substrate, a

                                               4
   first structure formed in the substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids and
   adapted for releasing contents of one or more cells, spores, or viruses, the contents
   including the target molecules (for instance a dried buffer in the structure or chamber
   or well), a second structure (which can differ from the first structure) formed in the
 5 substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids and including at least one binding
   member adapted for capturing the target molecules and for determining a value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target molecules, a microfluidic
   network interconnecting at least the first structure and the second structure, and an
   actuator member adapted for effecting a fluid flow between the first structure and the
10 second structure by pressing the flexible cover element against the substrate to
   selectively close a portion of the microfluidic network.
            In another aspect, a device includes a structure adapted for accommodating
   liquids, wherein the structure includes at least one binding member and is in fluid
   communication with a microfluidic network, and a control unit adapted for
15 controlling a fluid flow through the microfluidic network in such a manner that target
   molecules are captured at the at least one binding member, adapted for controlling an
   amplification of the target molecules in the structure, and adapted for controlling
   detection of compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target
   molecules and captured at the at least one binding member.
20          In another aspect, a device includes a structure adapted for accommodating
   liquids, wherein the structure includes a first binding member adapted for capturing a
   first compound and includes a second binding member (which can differ from the
   first binding member) adapted for capturing a second compound (which can differ
   from the first compound) indicative of the presence and/or amount of the first
25 compound.
            In another aspect, a device can be provided in which a sample is guided,
   under the control of a control unit, through a microfluidic device in such a manner as
   to perform a predefined analysis task. In the device, a central well/central structure
   (which can also be denoted as second well or second structure) can be provided
30 which can perform several or all solid phase coupling procedures needed during the
   analysis. In the structure (which can be denoted as a central well), it can be possible

                                               5
   to capture target molecules of a sample (for purification or separation purposes), to
   amplify target molecules (for instance by polymerase chain reaction, PCR), and to
   perform a (for instance optical) detection procedure which allows to derive
   information regarding the presence/absence or even the quantity of target molecules.
 5         Therefore, a powerful and fully automatic biochemical analysis system can be
   provided, which can allow deriving, in a fast and accurate manner and without the
   requirement of much manpower, a biochemical or medical result. For instance, with
   such a device, it can be possible to detect nucleic acids associated with an HIV
   infection in a whole blood sample of a patient, in a qualitative or in a quantitative
10 manner.
           Next, further exemplary embodiments of the devices and methods will be
   explained. The compounds being detected in the central well can be the target
   molecules. For this purpose, the central well can be provided with specific binding
   members (for instance binding members which differ from other binding members
15 needed for capturing the target molecules). The target molecules can be bound to the
   binding members. Target molecules can be, for example, nucleic acids originating
   from free and from cell-associated viruses such as HIV including RNA originating
   from free viruses, RNA originating from cell-associated viruses, pro-viral DNA,
   reverse transcribed viral DNA (i.e., the "intermediates" of viral replication), and
20 transcripts derived from pro-viral DNA (i.e., RNA molecules obtained by
   transcription of the host DNA genome).
           Alternatively, specific compounds can be provided such as reporter
   compounds which can bind, for instance, to a PCR product, to RNA or to DNA. In
   such a scenario, the reporter compounds can be the compounds which are detected,
25 thereby allowing to indirectly derive information regarding the presence and/or
   amount of target molecules in a sample.
           The at least one binding member can be adapted for capturing the target
   molecules. For example, the at least one binding member can include labelled beads
   capable of capturing complexes including target molecules such as total viral nucleic
30 acids.
           The at least one binding member can be adapted for capturing compounds

                                                6
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target molecules. Thus, not only the
   separate individual target molecules can be detected directly, but it is also possible to
   detect target molecules indirectly, for instance by detecting reporter compounds
   captured on a binding member.
 5          The at least one binding member can include a first binding member adapted
   for capturing the target molecules and can include a second binding member (which
   can differ from the first binding member) adapted for capturing reporter compounds
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target molecules. Therefore, two
   different kinds of compounds can be provided, one specifically for capturing the
10 target molecules after lysing, e.g., capture molecules including a binding portion
   specific to a region of a target polynucleotide and an anchor group; the other one for
   detection purposes, e.g., reporter compounds capable of forming complexes with the
   target polynucleotide, where the formation of complexes with the target
   polynucleotide inhibits capture of the reporter compound by the second binding
15 member. In other words, capture can be functionally decoupled from detection. For
   example, the first binding member can be beads being configured to bind complexes
   including a capture molecule and a target molecule, e.g., by binding an anchor group
   of the capture molecule, whereas the second binding member can be a surface of the
   central well capable of capturing reporter compounds. The surface of the central
20 well being the second binding member can include one or more different reporter
   specific capture molecules each capable of capturing a reporter compound on the
   surface.
            The structure, i.e., the central member at which the various solid phase
   coupling procedures occur, can be a well. A "well" can be an indentation or a recess
25 formed in a substrate and providing a sample chamber in which various analysis
   procedures can be performed. Such a well can be a cylindrical structure or pot having
   a volume on the order of microliters to milliliters.
            The microfluidic network can include a channel or a plurality of
   interconnected channels. A "channel" can denote a fluidic structure (for instance an
30 essentially one-dimensional structure) having a length which is significantly larger
   than a width and a height, thereby providing a path along which liquids can be

                                                7
   transported. A single channel can be provided, or several channels can be
   interconnected to form a channel system. Such a channel system can allow a liquid
   flow from one channel to another channel at bifurcations of such a system. One or
   more wells can be integrated in such a channel system.
 5         In addition to a structure as described above, e.g., the "central" structure, the
   microfluidic network can include at least one further structure. In other words, apart
   from the channels and the central well, further microfluidic members can be
   provided, such as further channels and/or further wells. Therefore, a complex system
   of wells and channels can be provided.
10         At least one further structure (such as a lysis structure or a lysis well) can be
   adapted for releasing contents of one or more cells, spores, or viruses, the contents
   including the target molecules. Thus, such a further structure can be denoted as a
   lysis chamber in which biological compounds such as cells are forced to release their
   contents for subsequent analysis. A lysis chamber can include a structure including
15 biochemical agents performing such tasks for releasing the contents, thereby
   providing a modified sample to be transported to the central well. To this end, the
   lysis chamber can include a lysing reagent, for example chaotropic salts or a reagent
   including one or more detergents which disintegrate the cellular membranes and/or
   viral capsids. Alternatively or in addition, the further structure, e.g., the lysis
20 chamber, can be adapted to heat the sample in order to destroy cellular membranes
   and/or viral capsids (e.g., by employing or including a temperature control unit
   and/or temperature regulating unit as described below).
           The at least one further structure can also include capture probes capable of
   forming complexes with the target molecules. Therefore, it can be possible to lyse a
25 sample in the presence of capture molecules with anchor groups.
           At least one further structure (such as a well including PCR reagents) can
   include at least one substance promoting amplification of the target molecules. In
   other words, a further well can be provided which includes biochemical agents
   needed for promoting the amplification. Although PCR agents can be included in the
30 further structure, the actual PCR amplification procedure can be carried out at
   another position, such as in the central well. As will be explained below in more

                                                  8
   detail, it can be advantageous in some circumstances to transport the sample from the
   central well through the well including the amplification substances well back to the
   central well again to avoid loss of sample material. Substances promoting
   amplification can be substances needed for PCR (such as enzyme, primer, buffer,
 5 etc.) and are described in detail below.
            The at least one further structure can also be a well. Therefore, a plurality of
   wells connected by the microfluidic network can be provided. However, it can also
   be possible to perform lysing and/or to provide amplification material in other
   structures than wells, for instance in channels.
10          The device can include a substrate, on and/or in which the structure(s) can be
   formed. Therefore, fluid accommodating components of the device can be
   monolithically integrated in the substrate. Alternatively, structure(s) can be formed
   on a substrate, for instance printed or spotted. Examples for materials of a rigid
   substrate which can properly cooperate with a flexible cover element are
15 polycarbonate, polypropylene, polystyrene, PET, PMMA, polyethylene, acrylic
   glass, PU, PEEK, PVC, glass, and the like.
            Particularly, the substrate can be rigid allowing it to cooperate with a flexible
   cover element at least partially covering the substrate in a very efficient manner.
   Particularly, the flexible cover element can cover the rigid substrate, and an actuator
20 can press the cover element against the substrate to selectively close channels (for
   performing valve functions or the like).
            According to an exemplary embodiment, the substrate can have a first surface
   and a second surface opposing the first surface. The structure can be provided on
   and/or in the first surface (particularly a first main surface) of the substrate. A further
25 structure can be provided on and/or in the second surface (particularly a second main
   surface) of the substrate. A fluidic connection structure can be provided, particularly
   a through hole penetrating the substrate and/or a groove in a surface portion of the
   substrate connecting the first surface with the second surface. Such a fluidic
   connection structure can be arranged between the first and the second surface and
30 can be configured to provide a fluid communication of the structure with the further
   structure. In such an embodiment, the substrate can be processed at two opposing

                                                 9
   main surfaces to thereby form microfluidic structures. These structures can be
   connected by the connection structure which can include channels formed along a
   surface of the substrate, or directly going through the substrate. Therefore, a device
   can be provided in which both main surface portions of the substrate can be used in a
 5 very efficient manner, since both main surfaces of such a substrate can be processed
   for providing liquid transport tasks. Optionally, such a substrate can be covered on
   one or both sides with a (particularly flexible) cover element, thereby allowing to
   control fluid flow through fluidic structures on both surfaces efficiently, for instance
   by actuators acting on flexible portions on one or both main surfaces. Thus, a central
10 substrate can be provided having fluidic structures on both sides. Particularly, this
   can allow manufacturing a cartridge formed by three layers, namely the substrate and
   two at least partially flexible cover elements. Such a three-layer structure can have a
   (for instance flexible) base element and a (for instance flexible) cover element
   sandwiching an intermediate layer (for instance being rigid) accommodating the
15 microfluidic structures. Base element and/or cover element can cover the central
   substrate entirely or only partially, for instance at positions at which a cover function
   is desired as a basis for an actuator-based control (see, for instance, FIG. 21).
            In addition to the substrate, the device can include at least one further
   substrate, wherein a further structure can be provided on and/or in the further
20 substrate. The substrate and the further substrate can be adapted to be connectable or
   mountable or assemblable or installable reversibly or detachably to one another in
   such a manner that the structure and the further structure can be brought in fluid
   communication in an operation state in which the substrate is connected or mounted
   or assembled or installed with the further substrate. In such an embodiment, a
25 modular construction can be provided in which a device can be formed by combining
   several modules which can be flexibly connected to one another. A corresponding
   cartridge can be formed by a modular construction set, wherein each of the modules
   can have the following properties and can be used in combination with other
   cooperatively formed modules:
30         - it includes a chamber having at least two fluid connections;
           - the chamber includes a rigid component and an elastic component;

                                                10
           - at least one fluid connection can be closable by the motion of the elastic
           component, and a mixing of the content of the chamber can be effected.
           The at least one binding member can be adapted such that a plurality of solid
   phase coupling procedures during an analysis of the target molecules occur at the at
 5 least one binding member. The term "solid phase coupling procedure" can
   particularly include any kind of anchoring and hybridization, etc., at a
   functionalization/binding member. In this context, the "binding member or support
   member" can include any substance, surface or functionalization being configured to
   bind an anchor group of capture molecules and/or a surface being configured to
10 capture polynucleotides. Solid phase coupling procedures can include any procedure
   in which molecules to be analyzed or detected are specifically bound to a solid
   surface, that is to say, are bound not in a solution but on a solid surface.
           The at least one binding member can be adapted such that all solid phase
   coupling procedures during an analysis of the target molecules occur at the at least
15 one binding member. In other words, in such an embodiment, no solid phase
   coupling procedures occur at another well than at the central well/structure. This can
   allow performing all solid phase coupling procedures in a single well, allowing for a
   miniature and high-performance device. The at least one binding member can be
   adapted such that exactly two solid phase coupling procedures during an analysis of
20 the target molecules occur at the at least one binding member. These two solid phase
   coupling procedures can relate to capturing target molecules from a multi-component
   sample, and to detecting compounds indicative of the presence or absence or the
   quantity of the target molecules. In the described embodiment, these two procedures
   are performed in a single well allowing to synergistically use provisions of the well
25 for both such tasks. Combining such two tasks in one well can keep liquid flow paths
   short, keep the device small, and keep the analysis time short.
           In some embodiments, the at least one binding member can be adapted such
   that exactly three solid phase coupling procedures during an analysis of the target
   molecules occur at the at least one binding member. These three solid phase coupling
30 procedures can relate to capturing target molecules from a multi-component sample,
   capturing nucleic acids resulting from reverse transcription of target nucleic acids,

                                               11
   and to detecting compounds indicative of the presence or absence or the quantity of
   the target molecules. In the described embodiment, these three procedures are
   performed in a single well allowing to synergistically use provisions of the well for
   all such tasks. Combining such three tasks in one well can keep liquid flow paths
 5 short, keep the device small, and keep the analysis time short.
           Alternatively, the at least one binding member can be adapted such that
   exactly one solid phase coupling procedure during an analysis of the target molecules
   in the sample occurs at the at least one binding member. Such an embodiment can be
   particularly advantageous, when the entire biochemical analysis or experiment only
10 includes a single solid phase coupling procedure, for instance is only foreseen for
   sample purification, not for detection.
           At least a portion of the device located adjacent to the at least one binding
   member can be transparent for electromagnetic radiation in a range of wavelengths
   between about I nm and about 10 tm to thereby allow for an electromagnetic
15 radiation-based detection of the compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of the target molecules and captured at the at least one binding member. In such
   embodiments, particularly a portion of the substrate close to the central well can be
   transparent for electromagnetic radiation used for detection purposes, particularly for
   electromagnetic radiation in the near-infrared, optical and/or ultraviolet wavelengths.
20 Thus, it can be possible to perform the detection on the basis of electromagnetic
   radiation (for instance a fluorescence-based detection) in the central well. When the
   portion of the device located adjacent to the at least one binding member is
   transparent for electromagnetic radiation in a range of wavelengths between about
   400 nm and about 800 nm, an optical detection of the compounds is enabled.
25          The device can include or can be connectable with a temperature
   manipulation unit adapted for manipulating a temperature of liquids located in the
   structure. Such a temperature manipulation unit can include a heating and/or cooling
   element which allows to bring a sample to a specific temperature, or to conduct a
   specific temperature pattern or sequence.
30          The temperature manipulation unit can be adapted for manipulating a
   temperature of liquids located in the structure in accordance with a temperature

                                               12
   sequence for performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Such a polymerase
   chain reaction can require temperature cycles to, for instance about 95 'C, about 55
   'C and about 72 'C. This sequence can be performed for specific predefined time
   intervals and can be repeated a predefined number of cycles.
 5         The at least one binding member can be configured to bind an anchor group
   of a capture molecule. Particularly, the at one least binding member can be
   configured to capture polynucleotides.
           The at least one binding member can include at least one of the group
   consisting of capture molecules (e.g., reporter specific capture molecules, arranged
10 on a surface of the structure (for instance immobilized in the well)), capture
   molecules arranged on particles (for instance on beads), capture molecules arranged
   on a porous surface of the structure (for instance a porous glass structure), and one or
   more different capture molecules (e.g., reporter specific capture molecules, arranged
   on different locations with respect to a surface of the structure (for instance different
15 kinds of capture molecules being immobilized in an array-like manner in the well,
   for instance in the context of a competitive assay)). In some embodiments, the at
   least one binding member also can include capture molecules for capturing an anchor
   group such as biotin.
           The structure can have a volume in a range between about 1 pL and about 1
20 mL, particularly in a range between about 20 .L and about 300 pL. For example, a
   well having a volume of about 100 gL can be provided.
           The substrate can have a groove configured to receive a cannula for
   supplying liquids to the device. In such an embodiment, it can be very easy for a user
   to handle the device, since the cannula for sample supply simply has to be placed in
25 the groove to be brought in proper accordance and cooperation with the microfluidic
   channel system, thereby allowing for an easy analysis which can be performed even
   by users who are not specifically skilled or trained.
           The substrate can have a window portion adjacent the structure and being
   transparent for electromagnetic radiation in a range of wavelengths between about 1
30 nm and about 10 pm (that is to say for near infrared, optical or ultraviolet radiation),
   particularly in a range of wavelengths between essentially 400 nm and essentially

                                               13
   800 nm (that is to say particularly for optical radiation), to thereby allow for an
   electromagnetic radiation based detection of a meniscus of a liquid flowing through
   (more precisely reaching) the structure or the microfluidic network. In such an
   embodiment, an optically transparent window portion of the substrate can be
 5 detected by a radiation detector. When a meniscus of a fluid pumped through the
   microfluidic network or the structure passes the window portion, the transmission
   properties through the window portion can change abruptly in a characteristic
   manner, thereby generating a signal at a radiation detector indicating that the
   meniscus has reached a specific location in the device. This signal can be useful for
10 triggering purposes, or as a control signal for actuators, because the cooperative
   motion of actuators and/or the control of temperature manipulation units can be
   brought in proper accordance with the present position of a sample being pumped
   through the device. For instance, by taking such a measure, it can be detected that a
   predefined volume of water or buffer has been pumped into the device, when an
15 overflow occurs.
           At least one of the group consisting of the structure and the further structure
   can include two fluid openings. Such fluid openings can be a fluid inlet and a fluid
   outlet.
           The cover element can be a flexible cover element. Particularly in
20 cooperation with a rigid substrate, the cover element and the substrate can form
   three-dimensionally sealed channels which can be properly controlled by actuators
   acting on the cover element. When the cover element is at least partially deformable
   at a specific position under the influence of an external force, it can be possible to
   selectively enable or disable a flow of liquids by opening or closing the structure or
25 the microfluidic network. Beyond this, a transport of liquids along the structure is
   possible with such a cover element.
           Particularly when an actuator member is provided and adapted for being
   actuated to deform the cover element, a high-performance lab-on-chip can be
   provided which has integrated mixing, pumping and/or valve functions.
30         Any one of the structures can include one or more substances which are
   biologically, biochemically and/or chemically active. Therefore, when such

                                               14
   substances, which can include capture molecules, reporter-specific capture
   molecules, detectable markers, lysing reagents and PCR reagents, are present in the
   wells in dried form, particularly in lyophilized form, it is possible to provide a device
   which a user simply has to fill with liquids (such as water, buffers and sample) to
 5 perform a fully automatic analysis. When the necessary biochemical components are
   provided in the different wells, a user can simply start an experiment on the basis of a
   sequence stored in the control unit and can provide water or buffers to different inlet
   chambers. The remainder will be performed by the fully automatic device.
            The channel can have a width (that is a dimension in a surface plane of the
10 substrate and perpendicular to a fluid flow direction) in a range between about 50 tm
   and about 1 mm, particularly in a range between about 100 pm and about 300 tm.
   For example, a width of the channel can be about 200 pim. A height (that is a
   dimension in a direction perpendicular to a surface plane of the substrate and
   perpendicular to a fluid flow direction) of the channel can be in a range between
15 about 20 pn and about 300 tm, particularly in a range between about 50 um and
   about 200 ptm. For example, a height of the channel can be about 100 tm. In contrast
   to this, a length of the channel can be much larger than the width and the height, for
   instance can be larger than 1 mm, particularly can be larger than 1 cm or can even be
   several centimeters.
20          The structure can include a material adapted as a transport medium for
   liquids. For example, the material can include at least one of the group consisting of
   a solid material, a gel material, a liquid material, and a combination thereof.
   Therefore, the structure can be a recess or can be formed by material serving as a
   carrier for the liquids.
25          The cover element can include a flexible membrane or a flexible sealing.
   Such a flexible membrane or flexible sealing can be made of materials such as latex,
   thereby enabling the cover element to be flexibly deformed under the influence of a
   mechanical force (for instance generated by an actuator member).
            The device can include an actuator member adapted for being actuated for
30 deforming the cover element to thereby control a fluid flow property of liquids in the
   structure and/or in the microfluidic network. Such an actuator member can be under

                                               15
   the control of the control unit and can have a plurality of cooperating pins or stencils
   acting on the flexible cover element to thereby selectively open or close channels,
   temporarily reduce the volume of a channel or well for pumping or mixing purposes,
   etc.
 5          The actuator member can particularly be adapted for controlling a fluid flow
   property of liquids along a straight portion of a channel. When a fluid flows along a
   straight channel, a perpendicularly arranged actuator member can efficiently disable
   a fluid flow when this channel is closed at a specific portion.
            The actuator member can be adapted for functioning as a valve, as a fluid
10 mixer, and/or as a fluid pump.
            More particularly, the actuator member can include a plurality of actuator
   elements adapted for being cooperatively actuated for deforming the cover element
   to thereby control the fluid flow property of liquids in accordance with a fluid flow
   scheme defined by the control unit. Therefore, when a user has selected a specific
15 experiment or assay, which involves the transport of fluids and samples through
   various channels, the control unit simply controls the individual stencils of the
   actuator member to provide such a reversible compression of the flexible cover
   element, to thereby fully automatically perform the assay.
            The control unit can be adapted to control the actuator member to deform the
20 cover element in such a manner that target molecules are captured at the at least one
   binding member, that the target molecules are amplified in the structure, and that
   compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target molecules and
   captured at the at least one binding member are detected. Thus, the control unit can
   be the central regulator of the device harmonizing the function of the various
25 components.
            The actuator member can include one or more pins configured to be
   reciprocated, e.g., moved alternately in forward and backward directions. By moving
   a pin in a forward direction, a channel can be closed by pressing the flexible cover
   element towards the substrate in this channel. When the pin is moved backwardly,
30 the channel can be opened again to allow for a fluid flow. In some embodiments, the
   one or more pins can have an at least partially elastic tip.

                                                 16
           The actuator member can further be provided to be movable in a direction
   perpendicular to a main surface of the substrate. By reciprocating in a direction
   which is perpendicular to the planar substrate, an efficient opening and closing can
   be made possible. Particularly, the actuator member can be provided movably to
 5 selectively close at least a part of the structure to disable a transport of liquids
   through the structure. In another operation mode, the actuator member can be moved
   to selectively open at least a part of the structure to enable a transport of liquids
   through the structure.
           The actuator member can be adapted for reciprocating perpendicular to a
10 main surface of the substrate for selectively enabling or disabling a fluid flow of
   liquids through the structure. The use of reciprocating actuators can allow for
   reversibly and selectively enabling or disabling fluid flows, allowing for a very
   flexible operation of the device and allowing for using the device multiple times (in
   contrast to approaches in which channels are closed irreversibly for performing a
15 one-way valve function).
           The actuator member can be adapted for reciprocating in a perpendicular
   direction to a main surface of the substrate for pumping liquids through the structure.
   Therefore, it is possible that the actuator member controls a volume or height of the
   structure. The actuator member can also selectively close the structure. Closing a
20 structure can be performed in the context of a valve function, of a mixing function or
   of a pumping function. However, it is also possible to use such an actuator during a
   detection phase, since it is possible to compress the structure and/or binding
   members for detection purposes to increase the local concentration of target
   molecules to be detected and/or to remove background signals. This can allow
25 increasing the accuracy.
           A drive unit can be provided for mechanically driving the actuator member,
   wherein the drive unit can be controllable by the control unit. Such a drive unit can
   include a pneumatic drive mechanism, a hydraulic drive mechanism, or an
   electromagnetic drive mechanism.
30         The at least one binding member can include a three-dimensional medium,
   for instance particles, beads or a porous matrix. The three-dimensional medium can

                                               17
   be arranged and configured to be reversibly compressible by moving the actuator
   member. By taking this measure, a very accurate detection can be made possible,
   because the local concentration of the molecules to be detected can be selectively
   increased by compressing the three-dimensional medium (such as beads) having
 5 attached thereto compounds or complexes indicative of the presence or the quantity
   of the target molecules.
            The device can be adapted as a biosensor assay device, a microfluidic
   cartridge, or a lab-on-chip. Therefore, on a small scale, various biochemical
   functions can be combined to perform an entire biochemical experiment.
10         A temperature sensor can be provided and adapted for sensing a temperature
   of liquids transported through the device. The temperature sensor can be integrated in
   a substrate to thereby sense the temperature of the liquids flowing through the
   microfluidic network. Alternatively, the temperature sensor can be arranged at the
   actuator member, for instance at a tip of a stencil-like actuator, so that the actuator,
15 when pressing the cover element against the substrate, can simultaneously measure
   the local temperature of the fluid.
            The device can include a temperature manipulation unit adapted for
   manipulating a temperature of liquids, and preferably arranged at the actuator
   member. Such a temperature manipulation unit can also be integrated within the
20 substrate, for example in the form of heating wires integrated in the substrate and
   heating sample in the well. Alternatively, such a temperature manipulation unit can
   be an external device such as an external electromagnetic radiation source wherein
   electromagnetic radiation (for instance from a laser) can be directed onto a well
   resulting in a heating of the fluid in the well using the electromagnetic radiation as an
25 energy source. Further alternatively, the temperature manipulation unit can include
   not or not only a heating element, but also a cooling element. For such an
   embodiment, a Peltier cooler can be implemented with low effort.
           A temperature manipulation unit can be provided and adapted for
   manipulating a temperature of liquids, wherein the temperature manipulation unit can
30 include a first heating element and a second heating element, the structure being
   arranged between the first heating element and the second heating element. By

                                                 18
   providing two such heating plates, one being a continuous plate and the other one
   being an annular plate, a heating can be performed without disabling the device to be
   operated with an electromagnetic radiation based detector, since a recess in the
   annular plate can allow electromagnetic radiation to be directed onto the central well
 5 and can allow fluorescence radiation to be detected through the recess and the second
   heating element.
            A temperature regulation unit can be provided and adapted for regulating a
   temperature of liquids in the structure. Such a regulation entity can include the
   measurement of the actual temperature and, on the basis of this measurement, the
10 performance of a heating and/or cooling performance to thereby adjust the
   temperature to a desired value.
            A detection unit can be provided and adapted for detecting, in the structure,
   compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target molecules and
   captured at the at least one binding member. Such a detection unit can include an
15 optical detection unit, particularly a fluorescence detection unit.
            The substrate and the cover element can be separate components which are
   connected to one another. Alternatively, the substrate and the cover element can be
   made of different materials.
            A transport unit can be provided and adapted for transporting liquids through
20 the structure and/or the microfluidic network. Such a transport unit can include a
   pump, particularly one of the group consisting of a compressed-air pump, a hydraulic
   pump, a peristaltic pump, and a vacuum pump. Furthermore, the device can be
   adapted in such a manner, during normal use, the gravitational force promotes the
   flow of liquids through the device in a desired manner. Therefore, in the absence of
25 the activity of a transport unit, liquids can directly flow in a desired direction.
   However, when the transport unit is switched on, the influence of the transport unit
   can be larger than the influence of the gravitation, thereby allowing to selectively
   initiate a fluid flow in a direction against the gravitational force. Therefore the
   combination of gravity and a special transport unit can be highly advantageous and
30 can allow for an energy-saving operation.
            The transport unit can be adapted for transporting liquids by actuating a gas

                                                  19
   bubble in the structure and/or in the microfluidic network. By moving a gas bubble
   through the device, the transport of the liquids through the device can be supported
   or promoted.
            At least one filter, particularly at least one frit, can be arranged at the structure
 5 (that is to say at an inlet and/or at an outlet of the central well) and can be adapted for
   preventing the at least one binding member (for instance beads) arranged in the
   structure, from being washed out of the structure. Under the influence of a fluid flow,
   a mechanical force can act on the beads or other binding members in the structure.
   However, when a frit, that is to say a porous filter element which can be made of a
10 sinter material, is provided at an inlet and/or an outlet of the structure it can be
   securely prevented that the beads are washed out of the central chamber. The frit can
   be provided with an annular shape to allow for being inserted into a correspondingly
   shaped annular groove in the device.
            The at least one binding member can include a surface functionalization. The
15 term "surface functionalization" can denote the fact that the surface is processed in
   such a manner as to perform a specific binding function. In such an embodiment, the
   binding member can be part of or coupled to or attached to the surface of the well.
            The substrate and the cover element can be in direct contact to one another.
   Alternatively, the substrate can be free of a direct contact with the cover element.
20 Various geometrical realizations are possible.
            A portion of the substrate located adjacent to the structure can be transparent
   for electromagnetic radiation in a range of wavelengths between about 400 nm and
   about 800 nm to thereby allow for an optical detection in the structure. Therefore,
   visible light can be used for detection purposes. Such a detection can be performed
25 on the basis of light absorption, light reflection, or fluorescence generation, for
   instance using fluorescence labels attached to molecules or complexes to be detected.
            The at least one binding member can be adapted such that at least two solid
   phase coupling procedures during an analysis of the target molecules occur at exactly
   one of the at least one binding member. In other words, one and the same binding
30 member can be used for multiple solid phase coupling procedures. For example,
   beads with attached groups can be used for capturing target molecules out of the

                                                20
   sample and can be used later for capturing compounds such as amplified and labelled
   target molecules as a basis for a subsequent detection.
            Alternatively, the at least one binding member can be adapted such that at
   least two solid phase coupling procedures during an analysis of the target molecules
 5 occur at different ones of the at least one binding member. In such a configuration,
   for example, capturing molecules from a sample on the one hand, and detecting
   components indicative of the target molecules on the other hand are captured using
   two different kinds of binding members. For example, beads can be provided for
   capturing the target molecules out of a sample. On the other hand, capture molecules,
10 e.g., reporter specific capture molecules immobilized in the well can be used in the
   context of a competitive assay for capturing the components indicative of the
   presence or amount of target molecules in the sample, e.g., reporter compounds.
            In another aspect, a method includes forming complexes, each including a
   target nucleic acid and a capture molecule, wherein each capture molecule includes a
15 binding portion specific to a region of the target nucleic acid and an anchor group;
   contacting the complexes with a binding member, the binding member being
   configured to bind the anchor group of the capture molecule to bind the complexes to
   the binding member; subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to a amplification;
   capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding member; and
20 determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured target
   nucleic acids.
            The one or more target nucleic acids can be single-stranded or double
   stranded nucleic acids.
            The method can further including subjecting the target nucleic acids to
25 reverse transcription prior to subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to
   amplification.
            The method can further include releasing the captured amplified target
   nucleic acids from the binding member and repeating the steps of subjecting one or
   more target nucleic acids to amplification and capturing the amplified target nucleic
30 acid with respect to the binding member. In such an embodiment, the cycle of
   releasing the captured amplified target nucleic acids from the binding member and

                                              21
   repeating the steps of subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to amplification and
   capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding member can
   be performed at least 10 times or at least 20 times.
           A value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured target
 5 nucleic acids can be determined after at least one cycle, e.g., after each cycle, of
   releasing the captured amplified target nucleic acids from the binding member and
   repeating the steps of subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to amplification and
   capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding member.
           The binding member can include one or more capture molecules capable of
10 capturing the target nucleic acids. In such an embodiment, the target nucleic acids
   are captured with respect to the binding member by the one or more capture
   molecules.      The binding member can further include particles.
           The step of forming complexes each including a target nucleic acid and a
   capture molecule can be performed spatially separated from the step of contacting
15 the complexes with a binding member.
           The method can further include labeling the target nucleic acids. The target
   nucleic acids can be labelled by adding or more detectable markers, e.g., prior to or
   during subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to amplification and/or prior to
   capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding member. The
20 one or more detectable markers can be fluorescent markers.
           Determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured
   target nucleic acids can include time-dependent monitoring of the one or more
   indicative values obtained.
           The method can further include providing the one or more target nucleic
25 acids prior to forming complexes each including a target nucleic acid and a capture
   molecule. The step of providing one or more target nucleic acids can include
   releasing the target nucleic acids from biological material. In such an embodiment,
   the biological material can be selected from the group consisting of one or more
   prokaryotic cells, one or more eukaryotic cells, one or more erythrocytes, and one or
30 more viral particles as well as mixtures thereof. Further, releasing the target nucleic

                                                22
   acids from biological material can include contacting the biological material with a
   lysing reagent.
            Providing the one or more target nucleic acids can include providing a sample
   including the one or more target nucleic acids wherein the sample can be selected
 5 from the group consisting of whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, sputum, saliva and
   cerebrospinal fluid.
            Providing the one or more target nucleic acids can be performed spatially
   separated from the steps of contacting complexes each including a target nucleic acid
   and a capture molecule, subjecting the one or more target nucleic acids to
10 amplification, capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding
   member and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the
   captured target nucleic acids.
            The method can further include separating the one or more target nucleic
   acids from concomitant material.
15          In a further embodiment, the method according to this exemplary
   embodiment is performed in a device as described above. For example, the method
   can be performed in a device, including a rigid substrate; a flexible cover element at
   least partially covering the substrate; a first structure formed in the substrate, adapted
   for accommodating liquids and adapted for releasing contents of one or more cells,
20 spores, or viruses, the contents including target molecules such as target nucleic
   acids; a second structure formed in the substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids
   and including at least one binding member adapted for capturing the target molecules
   and for determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target
   molecules; a microfluidic network interconnecting at least the first structure and the
25 second structure; and an actuator unit adapted for effecting a fluid flow between the
   first structure and the second structure by pressing the flexible cover element against
   the substrate to selectively close a portion of the microfluidic network. Further, the
   method can be performed in a device, including a structure adapted for
   accommodating liquids, wherein the structure includes at least one binding member
30 and is in fluid communication with a microfluidic network; and a control unit
   adapted for controlling a fluid flow through the microfluidic network in such a

                                               23
   manner that target molecules such as target nucleic acids are captured at the at least
   one binding member, adapted for controlling an amplification of the target molecules
   in the structure, and adapted for controlling detection of compounds captured at the
   at least one binding member.
 5          The device can include a first structure adapted for accommodating liquids.
   In such an embodiment, the complexes each include a target nucleic acid and a
   capture molecule are formed in the first structure.
            Further, the device can include a second structure configured for detecting
   one or more target nucleic acids and including a cover element covering the second
10 well and an actuator unit adapted for being actuated to deform the cover element. In
   such an embodiment, determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of the captured target nucleic acids can be performed in the second structure.
            Further, subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to amplification and/or
   capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to a binding member can
15 also be performed in the second structure.
            Determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured
   target nucleic acids can be performed with the actuator actuated to deform the cover
   element. The cover element can be deformed in such a way that the volume of the
   detection well is reduced. In such an embodiment, the volume of the second well can
20 be re-increased after determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
   the captured target nucleic acids.
            According to another exemplary embodiment of the invention, a method is
   provided, including: providing an amount of a reporter compound; a first binding
   member being configured to bind an anchor group of a capture molecule; a second
25 binding member capable of capturing the reporter compound; an amount of a target
   nucleic acid capable of forming complexes with the reporter compound; the forming
   of complexes with a reporter compound inhibiting capturing of the reporter
   compound by the second binding member; and amount of capture molecules wherein
   each capture molecule includes a binding portion specific to a region of the target
30 nucleic acids and an anchor group; forming complexes each including a target
   nucleic acid and a capture molecule; contacting the complexes with the first binding

                                               24
   member to bind the complexes to the first binding member; releasing at least a subset
   of the amount of target nucleic acid from the first binding member; forming
   complexes of a subset of the amount of a reporter compound with at least a subset of
   the amount of target nucleic acid;
 5 capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex
   with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member; and determining a value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the
   second binding member.
           The reporter compound can include one or more detectable labels. The one
10 or more detectable labels can be fluorescent labels. Further, the reporter compounds
   can be oligonucleotides.
           The method can further include determining a value indicative of the
   presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid based on the value indicative of the
   presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding
15 member.
           The method can further include releasing the remaining subset of the amount
   of reporter compound from the second binding member after the step of determining
   a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on
   the second binding member; forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter
20 compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid; capturing a
   remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target
   nucleic acid on the second binding member; and determining the value indicative of
   the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding
   member. In such an embodiment, the steps of releasing, forming complexes,
25 capturing and determining can be performed N additional times, wherein N is an
   integer greater than or equal to 1, e.g., N > 5, N > 10 or N > 20.
           Further, the step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter
   compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and the step of
   capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex
30 with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member can be performed
   concomitantly.

                                               25
            The method can further include subjecting the target nucleic acid to
   amplification. In such an embodiment, amplification of the target nucleic acid can be
   initiated prior to the step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter
   compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid.
 5          The value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the second binding member can be determined before the steps of
   forming of complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and of capturing a remaining subset of the
   amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
10 second binding member are in chemical equilibrium. Particularly, the value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the
   second binding member can be determined 1 seconds to 120 seconds after initiating
   the steps of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with
   at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid, and of capturing a remaining
15 subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid
   on the second binding member.
            The method can further include subjecting the target nucleic acids to reverse
   transcription prior to subjecting them to amplification.
            The second binding member can include one or more different reporter
20 specific capture molecules being capable of capturing a reporter compound on the
   second binding member. The capture molecules can be oligonucleotides. The
   different reporter specific capture molecules can be arranged on different locations
   with respect to the second binding member. Further, the reporter compounds can be
   captured on the second binding member by forming complexes with the reporter
25 specific capture molecules. At least a part of an interaction site of the reporter
   compound being capable of forming a complex with a target nucleic acid can also be
   capable of forming a complex with a reporter specific capture molecule. The
   reporter specific capture molecules and the target nucleic acid can compete for
   forming a complex with the reporter compound.
30          The amplification can include a step of denaturing double-stranded nucleic
   acids. Double-stranded nucleic acids can include complexes of reporter compounds

                                                26
   with target nucleic acids, complexes of reporter compounds with reporter specific
   capture molecules, double strands of reporter compounds and double strands of
   target nucleic acids.
            The amplification can further include a step of annealing primer molecules to
 5 target nucleic acids. In this embodiment, the annealing step can be performed
   concomitantly with the step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of
   reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and/or
   the step of capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in
   complex with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member.
10          The amplification can be a cyclic amplification, e.g., a PCR. Performing the
   PCR can include using a polymerase having exonuclease activity. The cyclic
   amplification can include at least 10 cycles or at least 20 cycles.
            The value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the second binding member can be determined after at least one cycle,
15 e.g., after each cycle, of the cyclic amplification. Further, the value indicative of the
   presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid can be determined each time after
   determining the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the second binding member.
            Determining the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter
20 compound captured on the second binding member can include time-dependent
   monitoring of the indicative value.
            Further, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic
   acid can be determined based on a calibration curve correlating the value indicative
   of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound with a value indicative of the
25 presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid.
            The method can also be performed in a device as described above. For
   example, the method can be performed in a device, including a rigid substrate; a
   flexible cover element at least partially covering the substrate; a first structure
   formed in the substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids and adapted for releasing
30 contents of one or more cells, spores, or viruses, the contents including target nucleic
   acids; a second structure formed in the substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids

                                                27
   and including at least one binding member adapted for capturing the target nucleic
   acids and for determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the
   target nucleic acids; a microfluidic network interconnecting at least the first structure
   and the second structure; and an actuator unit adapted for effecting a fluid flow
 5 between the first structure and the second structure by pressing the flexible cover
   element against the substrate to selectively close a portion of the microfluidic
   network. The method can also be performed in a device, including a structure
   adapted for accommodating liquids, wherein the structure includes at least one
   binding member and is in fluid communication with a microfluidic network; and a
10 control unit adapted for controlling a fluid flow through the microfluidic network in
   such a manner that target nucleic acids are captured at the at least one binding
   member, adapted for controlling an amplification of the target molecules in the
   structure, and adapted for controlling detection of compounds captured at the at least
   one binding member.
15         The device can further include a first structure adapted for accommodating
   liquids. In such an embodiment, the step of forming complexes each including a
   target nucleic acid and a capture molecule is performed in the first structure.
           The device can further include a second structure adapted for accommodating
   liquids and the first and, optionally, the second binding member can be provided in
20 the second structure. In such an embodiment, forming complexes each including a
   target nucleic acid and a capture molecule; contacting the complexes with the first
   binding member to bind the complexes to the first binding member; releasing at least
   a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid from the first binding member; forming
   complexes of a subset of the amount of a reporter compound with at least a subset of
25 the amount of target nucleic acid; capturing a remaining subset of the amount of
   reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the second binding
   member; and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
   reporter compound captured on the second binding member is performed in the
   second structure, e.g., the central well.
30         Providing the one or more target nucleic acids can include providing a sample
   including the one or more target nucleic acids. The sample can be a liquid sample

                                               28
   having a volume of 1 pL to 50 pL. Further, the sample can be a liquid whole blood
   sample.
            In another aspect, a method includes amplifying at least one target
   polynucleotide to form double-stranded amplicons, contacting the amplicons with a
 5 surface configured to selectively bind the amplicons, and with the amplicons bound
   to the surface by an anchor group, optically determining the presence of the
   amplicons. The method can further include releasing the amplicons from the surface
   after the step of optically detecting, subjecting the released amplicons to at least one
   more amplification cycle, contacting the resulting amplicons with the surface, and
10 with the amplicons bound to the surface by the anchor group, optically determining
   the presence of the amplicons. The method can further include performing the steps
   of releasing, subjecting, contacting, and optically determining a number N additional
   times, where N is an integer greater than or equal to 1. Particularly, N > 5, more
   particularly N > 10, and still more particularly N > 20.
15          The method can further include, prior to the step of amplifying, providing the
   target polynucleotides, forming complexes each including a target polynucleotide
   released from a pathogen and at least one capture molecule, each capture molecule
   including a binding portion specific to a region of the target polynucleotide and an
   anchor group, and contacting the complexes with the surface, the surface being
20 configured to non-selectively bind the anchor group of the capture molecule to non
   selectively bind the complexes and the surface. In such a method, providing the
   polynucleotides can include releasing contents of one or more cells, spores, or
   viruses, the contents including the target polynucleotides. The step of releasing can
   include contacting a sample including the one or more cells, spores, or viruses with a
25 lysing reagent and the capture molecules. The step of contacting the sample with the
   lysing reagent and capture molecules can include contacting the sample with the
   lysing reagent and capture molecules in lyophilized form.
            In such a method, the step of providing the target polynucleotides can include
   providing concomitant materials, and the method can further include separating the
30 surface-bound complexes and the concomitant materials. In such a method, the
   concomitant materials can include contents of at least one cell, spore, or virus from

                                               29
   which the polynucleotides have been released. The surface can be a surface of a
   particle.
            In yet another aspect, a method includes providing one or more target
   polynucleotides, forming complexes each including a target polynucleotide and at
 5 least one capture molecule, each capture molecule including a binding portion
   specific to a region of the target polynucleotide and an anchor group, and contacting
   the complexes with a surface, the surface being configured to non-selectively bind
   the anchor group of the capture molecule to non-selectively bind the complexes and
   the surface. In such a method, the step of providing can include releasing the
10 contents of one or more cells, spores, or viruses and the contents including the
   polynucleotides. The method can further include separating the surface-bound
   complexes and other contents released from the one or more cells, spores, or viruses.
            In another aspect, a method includes forming a composition of matter
   including an amount of a reporter compound, a binding member capable of capturing
15 the reporter compound, and an amount of a target nucleic acid capable of forming
   complexes with the reporter compound, the forming of complexes with the reporter
   compound inhibiting capturing of the reporter compound by the binding member;
   forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid; capturing a remaining subset of the
20 amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
   binding member; and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of reporter compound captured on the binding member.
            In other words, the method can include allowing a subset of the amount of
   reporter compound to form a complex with at least a subset of the amount of target
25 nucleic acid and allowing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound
   not in complex with a target nucleic acid to be captured on the binding member.
            The method can be performed in a device selected from the group consisting
   of a biosensor assay device, a micro-fluidic cartridge, and a lab-on-chip.
            In some embodiments, the method further includes determining a value
30 indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid based on the value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the

                                               30
   binding member. The determination of the value indicative of the presence and/or
   amount of reporter compound captured on the binding member can include time
   dependent monitoring of the indicative value. In specific embodiments, the value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid is determined based
 5 on a calibration curve correlating the value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of reporter compound with the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
   target nucleic acid.
            In other embodiments, the method further includes releasing the remaining
   subset of the amount of reporter compound from the binding member after the steps
10 of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid, capturing a remaining subset of the
   amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
   binding member, and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of reporter compound captured on the binding member.
15          The steps of releasing, forming complexes, capturing, and determining a
   value indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid can be
   performed a number N additional times, where N is an integer greater than or equal
   to 1. In specific embodiments, N is   > 5, > 10 or  20.
            The method can further include, prior to the step of forming complexes:
20 capturing at least a subset of the amount of reporter compound on the binding
   member; determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter
   compound captured on the binding member; and releasing captured reporter
   compounds from the binding member.
            In some embodiments, the step of forming complexes of a subset of the
25 amount of reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic
   acid and the step of capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter
   compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the binding member are
   performed concomitantly.
            In further embodiments, the method includes subjecting the target nucleic
30 acid to amplification. Amplification of the target nucleic acid can be initiated prior to
   the step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with

                                               31
   at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid.
            The value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the binding member can be determined before the forming of complexes
   of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount
 5 of target nucleic acid and the capturing of a remaining subset of the amount of
   reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the binding member
   are in chemical equilibrium. In some embodiments, the value indicative is
   determined 1 seconds to 120 seconds after initiating the steps of forming complexes
   of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount
10 of target nucleic acid and of capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter
   compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the binding member.
            The reporter compounds can include one or more detectable labels. In
   specific embodiments, the one or more detectable labels are fluorescent labels. In
   other specific embodiments, the reporter compounds are oligonucleotides.
15          In other embodiments, the method further includes subjecting the target
   nucleic acids to reverse transcription prior to subjecting them to amplification.
            In other embodiments, the step of forming a composition of matter includes
   forming a composition of matter including an amount of a first reporter compound,
   an amount of a first target nucleic acid capable of forming complexes with the first
20 reporter compound, the forming of complexes with the first reporter compound
   inhibiting capturing of the first reporter compound by the binding member, an
   amount of a second reporter compound, and an amount of a second target nucleic
   acid capable of forming complexes with the second reporter compound, the forming
   of complexes with the second reporter compound inhibiting capturing of the second
25 reporter compound by the binding member.
            The binding member used in the method can include one or more different
   capture molecules being capable of capturing a reporter compound on the binding
   member. The capture molecules can also be denoted as reporter specific capture
   molecules. In specific embodiments, the capture molecules are oligonucleotides. The
30 different capture molecules can also be arranged on different locations with respect
   to the binding member.

                                              32
            The reporter compounds can be captured on the binding member by forming
   complexes with the capture molecules. In specific embodiments, at least a part of an
   interaction site of the reporter compound being capable of forming a complex with a
   target nucleic acid is also capable of forming a complex with a capture molecule. In
 5 other specific embodiments, the capture molecules and the target nucleic acid
   compete for forming a complex with the reporter compound.
            In other embodiments, the amplification includes a step of denaturing double
   stranded nucleic acids. The double stranded nucleic acids can include complexes of
   reporter compounds with target nucleic acids, complexes of reporter compounds with
10 capture molecules, double strands of reporter compounds, and double strands of
   target nucleic acids.
            The amplification can also include a step of annealing primer molecules to
   target nucleic acids. The annealing step can be performed concomitantly with the
   step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at
15 least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and/or with the step of capturing a
   remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target
   nucleic acid on the binding member
            The amplification can be a cyclic amplification. In specific embodiments, the
   cyclic amplification is a PCR. The cyclic amplification can include at least 10 or at
20 least 20 cycles. In other embodiments, performing the PCR includes using a
   polymerase having exonuclease activity.
            The value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the binding member can be determined after at least one cycle of the
   cyclic amplification. In specific embodiments, this value is determined after each
25 cycle of the cyclic amplification. In other embodiments, the value indicative of the
   presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid is determined each time after
   determining the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the binding member.
           A device can be provided which is configured to perform any one of the
30 above described methods.
            Further aspects, objects and advantages will be apparent from the description

                                                33
   below, the drawings, and the claims.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The illustration in the drawings are schematic. In different drawings, similar
 5 or identical elements are provided with the same reference signs.
           Figure 1a is a flow chart of a polynucleotide assay method.
           Figure lb is a view of a detection system useful in performing the method of
   Figure la.
           Figure Ic is a view of the detection system of Figure 1b, with the detection
10 system being shown in an actuated state for performing a detection step of the
   method of Figure la.
           Figure Id shows an amplicon bound to a particle.
           Figure le shows an amplicon bound to a particle.
           Figure 2 illustrates an assay device suitable for use in the detection system of
15 Figs. lb and ic.
           Figure 3 is the assay device of Figure 2 shown with a stencil actuator for
   operating the device.
           Figure 4 shows the results (RT-PCR product curves and gel electrophoresis)
   of assays performed with either fresh or lyophilized lysis buffer, wherein the lysis
20 buffer can be stored as lyophilized pellet without loss of function. Figure legend:
   MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR negative control; 2 - RT-PCR
   positive control; 3 - lyoph. lysis buffer elution fraction 1; 4 - lyoph. lysis buffer
   elution fraction 2; 5 - fresh lysis buffer elution fraction 1; 6 - fresh lysis buffer
   elution fraction 2.
25         Figure 5 shows the effect of the amount of streptavidin sepharose slurry used
   to capture an oligonucleotide (i.e., HIV RNA) from a blood-lysis mixture, wherein
   the results of assays performed with 200 pL, 100 pL or 50 pL of streptavidin
   sepharose slurry reveal that binding capacity of 50 pL of slurry is sufficient to
   capture substantially all RNA molecules. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight
30 standard; 1 - RT-PCR negative control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3
   supernatant 50pL SA slurry; 4 - supernatant 100pL SA slurry; 5 - supernatant

                                               34
   200iL SA slurry; 6 - elution 50tL SA slurry; 7 - elution 100L SA slurry; 8
   elution 200pL SA slurry.
            Figure 6 shows the effect of the amount of streptavidin sepharose slurry used
   to capture an oligonucleotide (i.e., HIV RNA) from a blood-lysis mixture, wherein
 5 the results of assays performed with 10 pL and 7 pL of streptavidin sepharose slurry
   reveal that binding capacity of 10 pl of slurry is sufficient to capture substantially all
   RNA molecules. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR
   negative control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3 - supernatant 7pL SA slurry; 4
   wash I 7tL SA slurry; 5 - wash II 7ptL SA slurry; 6 - elution I 7 tL SA slurry; 7
10 elution II 7tL SA slurry; 8 - supernatant 1OiL SA slurry; 9 - wash I 10 tL SA
   slurry; 10 - wash II 1OL SA slurry; 11 - elution I 1OpL SA slurry; 12 - elution II
    10pL SA slurry.
            Figure 7 shows the effect of the incubation time for the complex formation
   (i.e., hybridization) between the polynucleotide to be analyzed and the capture
15 probes, wherein a substantial amount of polynucleotide is not recovered after 2
   minutes of incubation time, while after 10 minutes of incubation no RNA can be
   detected in the supernatant. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1
   RT-PCR negative control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3 - supernatant 2 min
   hybridization; 4 - elution I 2 min hybridization; 5 - elution II 2 min hybridization; 6
20 - supernatant 10 min hybridization; 7 - elution I 10 min hybridization; 8 - elution II
    10 min hybridization.
            Figure 8 shows the effect of the incubation time for the complex formation
   (i.e., hybridization) between the polynucleotide to be analysed and the capture
   probes. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR negative
25 control; 2 - supernatant 3 min hybridization; 3 - supernatant 5 min hybridization; 4
   elution I 5 min hybridization; 5 - elution II 5 min hybridization; 6 - RT-PCR
   positive control.
            Figure 9 shows the effect of the incubation time for the capture step (i.e.,
   binding of the biotin anchor groups of the complexes to the streptavidin sepharose
30 particles), wherein it is shown that 5 minutes of incubation time are sufficient to
   capture all polynucleotide molecules (i.e., no RNA molecules are detected in the

                                              35
   supernatant). Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR negative
   control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3 - supernatant 2 min capture; 4 - elution I 2
   min capture; 5 - elution II 2 min capture; 6 - supernatant 5 min capture; 7 - elution I
   5 min capture; 8 - elution II 5 min capture.
 5         Figure 10 show the results (RT-PCR product curves) of assays performed
   with either fresh or lyophilized strepavidin sepharose particles after storage of
   several hours or seven days, wherein the strepavidin sepharose particles can be
   lyophilized and reconstituted without loss of function.
           Figure 11 show the results (RT-PCR product curves) of assays performed
10 with either fresh or lyophilized wash buffers, wherein the wash buffers can be
   lyophilized and reconstituted without loss of function.
           Figure 12 show the results (RT-PCR product curves and agarose gel
   electrophoresis) of tests performed to show the compatibility of the strepavidin
   sepharose particles with RT-PCR, wherein 10 pl of strepavidin sepharose particle
15 slurry can be applied to a RT-PCR amplification without loss of amplification
   efficiency. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR negative
   control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3 - 5 pL SA slurry; 4 - 1OpL SA slurry.
           Figure 13 shows the specificity of the assay according to an exemplary
   embodiment, wherein the results (RT-PCR product curves and agarose gel
20 electrophoresis) show that neither the HIV-RNA binds non-specifically (i.e., in the
   absence of capture probes) to the strepavidin sepharose particles nor does any RNA
   of human blood cells which is also released during the lysis step is
   captured/amplified. Figure legend: MW - molecular weight standard; 1 - RT-PCR
   negative control; 2 - RT-PCR positive control; 3 - SA negative (no RNA); 4 - SA
25 negative (no capture probe); 5 - SA positive (with RNA and capture probe).
           Figure 14 shows fluorescent images of the detection of amplicons on
   strepavidin sepharose particles, wherein biotin-labelled amplicons were captured on
   strepavidin sepharose particles and visualized after hybridization of a fluorescently
   labelled probe to the captured amplicon. Specifically, fluorescent images of SA after
30 incubation with/without RT-PCR product and Cy5-labelled probe (average bead
   diameter 34[im, 10 see exposition time).

                                                36
           Figure 15 illustrates that the agarose gel electrophoresis shows that
   polynucleotides (i.e., HIV-RNA) captured on strepavidin sepharose particles can be
   used directly as a template for the amplification without further processing steps (i.e.,
   elution, dilution or concentration). Figure legend: 1 - RT-PCR negative control; 2
 5 RT-PCR positive control; 3 - elution negative control; 4 - elution positive control; 5
   - SA negative control; 6 - SA positive control; 7 - SA negative control, no taqman
   probe; 8 - SA positive control no taqman probe; MW - molecular weight standard.
           Figure 16 shows the respective fluorescent images of strepavidin sepharose
   particles, wherein more fluorescent strepavidin sepharose particles are detected in the
10 positive probe as compared to the negative probe.
           Figure 17 schematically illustrates a device.
           Figure 18 illustrates a front side of a device.
           Figure 19 illustrates a back side of the device of Figure 18.
           Figure 20 illustrates a plan view of a device.
15         Figure 21 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a device.
           Figure 22 schematically illustrates a competitive method for the detection of
   polynucleotides.
           Figure 23 shows the results of a competitive assay for determining the
   amount of human poliovirus 1 DNA in a sample.
20         Figure 24 shows the principle as well as the results of an array-based
   competitive assay for determining the amount of a HIV gag/env PCR product in a
   sample.
           Figure 25 illustrates different steps during the assay shown in Figure 24.
           Figure 26 schematically illustrates the competitive method for the detection
25 of polynucleotides.
                   Figure 27 shows the results of a competitive assay for determining the
   amount of HIV subtype B and HIV subtype 02 in a sample.
                   Figure 28 shows the results of a competitive assay for determining
   different amounts of HIV subtype B in a sample.
30

                                              37
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Analysis of biological samples can include determining whether one or more
   polynucleotides (for instance, a DNA, RNA, mRNA, or rRNA) are present in the
   sample. For example, one can analyze a sample to determine whether a
 5 polynucleotide indicative of the presence of a particular pathogen is present.
           In one embodiment, a method for the analysis includes forming complexes,
   each including a target nucleic acid and a capture molecule, wherein each capture
   molecule includes a binding portion specific to a region of the target nucleic acid and
   an anchor group; contacting the complexes with a binding member, the binding
10 member being configured to bind the anchor group of the capture molecule to bind
   the complexes to the binding member; subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to
   a amplification; capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the
   binding member; and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of the captured target nucleic acids.
15                 The term target nucleic acid can refer to a nucleic acid molecule that
   can be detected by the method (i.e., target nucleic acids that are capable of forming
   complexes with a capture molecule; see below). Examples of such nucleic acid
   molecules include naturally occurring nucleic acids such as deoxyribonucleic acid
   (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA) as well as artificially designed nucleic acids, e.g.,
20 nucleic acid analogs such as, inter alia, peptide nucleic acids (PNA) or locked
   nucleic acids (LNA), that are chemically synthesized or generated by means of
   recombinant gene technology (see, for example, Sambrook, J. et al. (1989)
   Molecular, Cloning: A LaboratoryManual, 2nd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
   Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety).
25 Specific examples of naturally occurring nucleic acids include DNA sequences such
   as genomic DNA or cDNA molecules as well as RNA sequences such as hnRNA,
   mRNA or rRNA molecules or the reverse complement nucleic acid sequences
   thereof. Such nucleic acids can be of any length and can be either single-stranded or
   double-stranded molecules. Typically, target nucleic acids are 10 to 10,000
30 nucleotides in length, e.g., 20 to 2,000 nucleotides, 30 to 1,000 nucleotides or 50 to
   500 nucleotides. As used herein, the term "nucleotide" is to be understood as

                                               38
   referring to both ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides (i.e., RNA and DNA
   molecules).
                   The target nucleic acid can be a nucleic acid associated with viral
   infections. A nucleic acid associated with viral infections denotes any nucleic acid
 5 molecule of viral origin (i.e., whose nucleotide sequence is identical or
   complementary to a corresponding sequence within the virus genome) that is present
   in a liquid sample to be analyzed that has been infected by one or more virus species.
   The viruses infecting the host, from which the liquid sample is obtained, can be a
   DNA virus (i.e., a virus having a DNA genome) or an RNA virus (i.e., a virus having
10 a RNA genome) (reviewed, e.g., in: Biichen-Osmond, C. (2003). Taxonomy and
   Classificationof Viruses. In: Manual of Clinical Microbiology, 8th ed., vol. 2, p.
   1217-1226, ASM Press, Washington DC, which is incorporated by reference in its
   entirety). Examples of DNA viruses include, inter alia, the families of Papovaviridae
   (e.g., papillomavirus), Adenoviridae (e.g., adenovirus), and Herpesviridae(e.g.,
15 Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus). Examples of RNA viruses include, inter alia,
   the families of Picornaviridae(e.g., poliovirus, rhinovirus) Flaviviridae(e.g.,
   hepatitis C virus), Filoviridae(e.g., Marburg virus, ebolavirus), and Retroviridae
   (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)). In some embodiments, the nucleic
   acids to be detected are associated with infections caused by members of the
20 Retroviridae,particularly they are associated with HIV infections. The term "HIV",
   as used herein, refers to both the HIV-1 and HIV-2 species and to any subtypes
   derived thereof.
            Since many DNA viruses as well as the Retroviridae(notably, the replication
   of the Retroviridaegenerally requires reverse transcription of the RNA virus genome
25 into DNA), can integrate their genetic information into the host cell's genome in form
   of a latent pro-virus, the term "nucleic acids associated with viral infections" does
   not only refer to nucleic acids originating from free and from cell-associated viruses
   but also includes pro-viral DNA molecules being integrated into the host's genome,
   reverse transcribed viral DNA molecules (i.e., the "intermediates" of viral
30 replication), and transcripts derived from pro-viral DNA (i.e., RNA molecules
   obtained by transcription of the host DNA genome).

                                               39
           Typically, the target nucleic acids are not subjected to the method in isolated
   form, but in the form of a sample that is suspected of including one or more species
   of target nucleic acids. The term "one or more species" refers to one or more
   different types of nucleic acids such as molecules having different nucleotide
 5 sequences and/or molecules descending from different origins (e.g., nucleic acids
   derived from different pathogens infecting a host cell).
           The term sample refers to any liquid which is to be analyzed, and which is
   suspected of including one or more species of target nucleic acids to be detected.
   Thus, a sample can include purified nucleic acid preparations dissolved in water or a
10 suitable buffer (e.g., Tris/EDTA) as well as various biological samples. Examples of
   liquid samples that can be analyzed using the invention include, inter alia, organic
   and inorganic chemical solutions, drinking water, sewage, human and non-human
   body fluids such as whole blood, plasma, serum, urine, sputum, salvia or
   cerebrospinal fluid, cellular extracts from animals, plants or tissue cultures,
15 prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell suspensions, phage preparations and the like.
           Whole blood can refer to blood with all its constituents. In other words,
   whole blood includes both blood cells such as erythrocytes, leukocytes, and
   thrombocytes, and blood plasma in which the blood cells are suspended.
           The sample can further include one or more additional agents such as
20 diluents, solvents or buffers that can result from an optional purification and/or
   processing of the sample prior to subjecting it to the method. However, in some
   embodiments, the sample analyzed is an untreated sample such as an untreated whole
   blood sample. The term untreated can indicate that after collecting the sample (e.g.,
   by blood withdrawal from a patient) and before subjecting it to the method, no
25 further sample processing (e.g., fractionation methods, drying/reconstitution, or the
   like) occurs.
           The volume of the fluid sample to be analyzed can be in the range of 1 pL to
   50 pL, typically in the range of 1 pL to 45 pL or 1 pL to 40 pL or 1 pL to 30 pL or 1
   pL to 25 pL or 1 pL to 20 pL or 1 pL to 15 pL. In particular embodiments, the
30 volume of the fluid sample is in the range of 1 pL to 10 pL. Samples of whole blood
   can be analyzed using sample volumes exceeding 50 pL as well.

                                                 40
                   A capture molecule refers a molecule that shows a specific binding
   behavior and/or a characteristic reactivity, which makes it suitable for the formation
   of complexes with a target nucleic acid. Nucleic acids are typically used as capture
   molecules. Examples of nucleic acids that can be used as capture molecules include
 5 naturally occurring nucleic acids such as deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or
   ribonucleic acid (RNA) as well as nucleic acid analogs such as inter alia peptide
   nucleic acids (PNA) or locked nucleic acids (LNA). Specific examples of naturally
   occurring nucleic acids include DNA sequences such as genomic DNA or cDNA
   molecules as well as RNA sequences such as hnRNA, mRNA or rRNA molecules or
10 the reverse complement nucleic acid sequences thereof. Such nucleic acids can be of
   any length and can be either single-stranded or double-stranded molecules.
   Typically, nucleic acid capture molecules are single-stranded oligonucleotides
   having a length of 10 to 150 nucleotides, e.g., of 20 to 100 nucleotides or 30 to 70
   nucleotides. In specific embodiments, the capture molecules can be used as primers
15 in a PCR in order to amplify any target nucleic acid of interest being present in a
   given fluid sample.
                   In some embodiments, the capture molecules can include at least one
   specific sequence region (i.e., the binding portion referred to above), which is
   complementary to a sequence region of a target nucleic acid (e.g., a nucleic acid
20 associated with a viral infection), thus allowing base-pairing between the capture
   molecules and the nucleic acid to be detected. Typically, the specific binding region
   is at least 20 nucleotides in length, e.g., at least 30 nucleotides, or at least 40
   nucleotides. Particularly, the nucleotide sequence of the binding region of the capture
   molecules is complementary to the corresponding nucleotide sequence of the target
25 nucleic acid.
                    The capture molecules can be provided (e.g., in lyophilized or dried
   form) in one or more of the at least one structure adapted for accommodating liquids
   of the device as described above prior to the introduction of the fluid sample to be
   analyzed. Alternatively, the capture molecules can be introduced into the device
30 along with the sample (e.g., concomitantly) or after the sample has already been
   introduced.

                                               41
                   One or more species of capture molecules can be employed. In other
   words, one or more different types of capture molecules such as one or more nucleic
   acid molecules having different nucleotide sequences can be used. More than one
   species of capture molecule concomitantly used can also be referred to as "library".
 5 Such libraries include at least two different molecules but can also include many
   more different molecules, e.g., at least 5 different species, at least 10 different
   species, at least 30 different species and so forth. The libraries can also be present in
   form of array elements or any other spatial arrangement.
                   In some embodiments, the analysis performed in the device further
10 includes contacting the complexes including a target nucleic acid to be detected and a
   capture molecule with a binding member of the device, the binding member being
   configured to bind the anchor group of the capture molecule in order to bind the
   complexes to the binding member.
                   The terms binding member or support member refer to any matrix to
15 which capture molecules (and thus also any complexes including such capture
   molecule) can be coupled via the anchor group of the capture molecules by covalent
   or non-covalent interactions. Examples of such matrices include, inter alia, the
   substrates of array elements or synthetic particles such as magnetic beads (e.g.,
   paramagnetic polystyrol beads, also known as Dynabeads@) and latex beads as well
20 as porous surfaces such as CPG and the like. Depending on the type of capture
   molecule, the type of anchor group, and the intended application, in each case a large
   variety of linkages are possible. For example, in case the anchor group of the capture
   molecules can be a biotin moiety, which can be coupled to an avidin or a streptavidin
   group being attached to the binding member. Alternatively, the capture molecules
25 can include a stretch of adenosine residues (e.g., 10 adenosine residues) that will
   interact with a corresponding stretch of thymidine residues bound to the binding
   member. Specific coupling reagents including anchor groups are commercially
   available from different providers and well established in the art (see, for example,
   Sambrook, J. et al., supra; Ausubel, F.M. et al., supra, and Lottspeich, F., and Zorbas
30 H., supra).
                   The binding member can be provided in one or more of the structures

                                                42
   of the device prior to the introduction of the fluid sample to be analyzed. The binding
   member can be provided in the same structure as the capture molecules or in at least
   one different structure. Typically, the step of forming complexes of capture
   molecules with target nucleic acids is performed spatially separated from the step of
 5 contacting the complexes with the binding member, i.e., in different structures or
   wells or reaction chambers of the device. For example, the step of forming
   complexes of capture molecules with target nucleic acids can be performed in a lysis
   well and the step of contacting the complexes with the binding member can be
   performed in a central well, depicted for example in FIG. 17. In such embodiments,
10 capture molecules and the binding member are usually provided in different
   structures adapted for accommodating liquids. Instead of providing the binding
   member in the device prior to adding the sample, the binding member can be
   introduced into the device along with the sample (i.e., concomitantly) or after the
   sample has already been introduced.
15                   In particular embodiments, the method further includes subjecting the
   target nucleic acid to amplification, that is, to increase their amount present in the
   sample before subjecting the same to the further analysis in order to facilitate further
   detection. Typically, target nucleic acid amplification is achieved by means of a
   cyclic amplification. The cyclic amplification can include any number of
20 amplification cycles that is equal or greater than two. Usually, cyclic amplification
   reaction includes at least 10 or at least 20 cycles.
                     An exemplary cyclic amplification is a polymerase chain reaction
   (PCR). PCR is an established standard method in molecular biology that is described
   in detail, e.g., in Sambrook et al., supra; and in Ausubel, F.M. et al., supra.
25 Typically, PCR is used for the amplification of double-stranded DNA molecules by
   employing a thermostable DNA polymerase. In some embodiments, the DNA
   polymerase used in the cyclic amplification has exonuclease activity, particularly
   5'-+3' exonuclease activity. Examples of such DNA polymerases include, inter alia,
   Taq DNA polymerase or Tth DNA polymerase (which are commercially available
30 from multiple providers).

                                                43
                    When the target nucleic acid is a RNA molecule, the target nucleic
   acid can be subjected to reverse transcription (that is, to produce a DNA molecule
   from a corresponding RNA molecule) prior to subjecting them to amplification.
   Reverse transcription is another standard method in molecular biology and also
 5 described, e.g., in Sambrook et al., supra; and in Ausubel, F.M. et al., supra.
            For nucleic acid amplification, the device can include one or more
   temperature control units and/or temperature regulating units for controlling and/or
   regulating the temperature within the reaction chamber. Such a temperature control
   unit and/or temperature regulating unit can include one or more separate heating
10 and/or cooling elements, which can directly contact one or more reaction chambers
   of the device. Typically, the one or more heating and/or cooling elements are made
   of a heat conductive material. Examples of such heat conductive materials include,
   inter alia, silicon, ceramic materials like aluminium oxide ceramics, and/or metals
   like high-grade steel, aluminium, copper, or brass. An exemplary description of a
15 suitable temperature control unit and/or temperature regulating unit can also be found
   in the International Patent Application WO 0 1/02094, which is incorporated by
   reference in its entirety.
            For example, controlling/regulating the temperature within a structure
   adapted for accommodating liquids can also be achieved by using a chamber body
20 made of an electrically conductive material. The chamber body can be a solid body
   surrounding at least partially the at least one structure or reaction chamber of the
   device. The structure can be, at least in part, an integral component of the chamber
   body (i.e., is made of the same material as the chamber body). Examples of
   electrically conductive materials include electrically conductive synthetic materials,
25 such as polyamide with 5 to 30% carbon fibres, polycarbonate with 5 to 30% carbon
   fibres, polyamide with 2 to 20% stainless steel fibres, and polyphenylene sulfide with
   5 to 40% carbon fibres. Furthermore, the chamber body can be designed to include
   swellings and diminutions, which allow specific heating of the reaction chamber or
   the corresponding surfaces.
30          Measuring the temperature in the structure can be performed by various
   methods well established in the art, for example by using integrated resistance

                                               44
   sensors, semi-conductor sensors, light waveguide sensors, polychromatic dyes or
   liquid crystals. Furthermore, the temperature in the reaction chamber can be
   determined by using an integrated temperature sensor in the chamber body, a
   pyrometer or an infrared sensor, or by measuring the temperature-dependent
 5 alteration of parameters such as the refraction index at the surface on which detection
   takes place or the pH value of the sample, for example by measuring the colour
   alteration of a pH-sensitive indicator.
           Usually, amplification such as a PCR includes three basic steps
   denaturation, annealing of the primers, and extension of the primers - that are
10 iteratively performed in a cyclic manner. However, the amplification can further
   include an initial denaturation step prior to the first "true" amplification cycle and/or
   a final extension step after completion of the final amplification cycle, respectively.
   In some embodiments, target nucleic acid amplification includes (at least) a step of
   denaturing double-stranded nucleic acids and/or a combined step of annealing and
15 extending the primer molecules at the target nucleic acids (i.e., a "two-step PCR").
            Typically, the denaturation step involves the heating of the sample to be
   analyzed to a temperature of 94-95 'C, typically for 0.5 seconds to 5 minutes, thus
   resulting in the strand-dissociation of double-stranded nucleic acid templates.
   Subjecting a sample to be analyzed to such denaturation step results in (i.e., allows)
20 the simultaneous denaturation of the double stranded nucleic acids in the sample
   including double-stranded target nucleic acids and complexes of capture molecules
   with target nucleic acids (attached to the binding member), the latter resulting in the
   release of the target nucleic acids from the binding member.
            Typically, the annealing step involves the cooling down of the sample to be
25 analyzed to a temperature of 40-65 'C, typically for 1 second to 5 minutes, to allow
   the association (i.e., the hybridization/base-pairing) of the primer molecules to the
   denatured nucleic acid template strands. The reaction temperature employed depends
   on the chemical and/or physical properties of the primer molecules to be annealed
   such as their nucleotide sequence composition, melting temperature, their tendency
30 for intra-molecular folding (e.g., the formation of double-stranded hairpin or turn
   structures), and the like. Within some embodiments, subjecting a sample to be

                                                45
   analyzed to such annealing step results in (i.e., allows) the re-association of double
   stranded target molecules, and the forming of complexes of target nucleic acids with
   capture molecules, the latter resulting in the capturing or re-capturing of the target
   nucleic acids on the binding member. Thus, in some embodiments, the annealing step
 5 is performed concomitantly with the step of capturing target nucleic acids on the
   binding member by forming complexes with the capture molecules.
            Finally, a typical extension step involves the extension of the hybridized
   primer molecules to produce full-length copies of the DNA template strands by a
   DNA polymerase. The length of the amplified DNA fragment is determined by the 5'
10 ends of the pair of primers employed. Typically, the elongation step is performed at a
   temperature of 70-72 'C for 1 second to 10 minutes. Within some embodiments,
   subjecting a sample to be analyzed to such extension step can result in the replication
   of the target nucleic acids to be analyzed by allowing the complexes of a primer with
   a target nucleic that have been formed during the annealing step to be extended to
15 generate double-stranded amplified nucleic acid fragments optionally having
   incorporated a detectable marker that subsequently can be detected.
                   In specific embodiments, the method further includes capturing the
   target nucleic acids that have been amplified, typically by subjecting the sample to be
   analyzed to PCR, with respect to the binding member (i.e., immobilizing the target
20 nucleic acids thereon). As already described above, the target nucleic acids can be
   captured with respect to the binding member by forming complexes with the capture
   molecules which are still coupled to the binding member via the anchor group.
            The method can further include releasing the captured amplified target
   nucleic acids from the binding member and repeating the steps of subjecting one or
25 more target nucleic acids to amplification and capturing the amplified target nucleic
   acid with respect to the binding member. Releasing can include the detachment or
   unbinding of the target nucleic acids from the binding member. This can be
   accomplished, for example, enzymatically via the cleavage of any covalent bonds or
   in cases, where the target nucleic acids are bound to the binding member by nucleic
30 acid capture molecules via complementary base-pairing, by increasing the

                                               46
   temperature in the structure, in which the assay is performed, thus resulting in
   nucleic acid strand separation (i.e., denaturation).
           In such an embodiment, the cycle of releasing the captured amplified target
   nucleic acids from the binding member and repeating the steps of subjecting one or
 5 more target nucleic acids to amplification and capturing the amplified target nucleic
   acids with respect to the binding member can be performed at least 5 times, at least
   10 times, at least 20 times, at least 30 times, at least 50 times or at least 100 times.
   The step of determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the
   captured target nucleic acids can be performed after at least one cycle, e.g., after each
10 cycle of releasing the captured amplified target nucleic acids from the binding
   member and repeating the steps of subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to
   amplification and capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the
   binding member.
           The step of forming complexes, each including a target nucleic acid and a
15 capture molecule, wherein each capture molecule includes a binding portion specific
   to a region of the target nucleic acid and an anchor group can be performed spatially
   separated from the step of contacting the complexes with a binding member, the
   binding member being configured to bind the anchor group of the capture molecule
   to bind the complexes to the binding member. In such an embodiment, the method is
20 performed in a device which includes at least two structures adapted for
   accommodating liquids. The at least two structures can be in fluid communication,
   e.g., with a microfluidic network. For example, the method can be performed in
   device 500 as illustrated in Figures 18 and 19. The complexes each including a target
   nucleic acid and a capture molecule can be formed in the first structure 502. The
25 complex can then be transferred to the second structure 512, in which the complexes
   are contacted with a binding member as described above which is configured to bind
   an anchor group of the capture molecule.
           Determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured
   target nucleic acids can include the detection/determination of parameters such as
30 electrical conductivity, redox potential, optical absorption, fluorescence intensity or
   bioluminescence that allow for qualitative and/or quantitative measurements of the

                                               47
   target nucleic acids captured (or re-captured) on the binding member. Only one of
   these parameters can be determined but it is also possible to determine more than one
   parameter (e.g., electrical conductivity and the intensity of a fluorescence signal
   caused by a suitable label), either concomitantly or consecutively.
 5          For performing the detection reaction, the target nucleic acids can be labelled
   with one or more detectable labels. A detectable label can be any compound or
   moiety that includes one or more appropriate chemical substances or enzymes, which
   directly or indirectly generate a detectable compound or signal in a chemical,
   physical or enzymatic reaction. Such a label can thus be necessary for or will
10 facilitate detection of the reporter compound of interest by being capable of forming
   interactions with said reporter compound. As used herein, the term is to be
   understood to include both detectable labels as such (also referred to as "markers") as
   well as any compounds coupled to one or more such detectable markers.
   Furthermore, moieties interfering with the generation of a detectable signal by a label
15 (e.g., a quencher "hijacking" the emissions that resulted from excitation of the
   fluorophor, as long the quencher and the fluorophor are in close proximity to each
   other) can also belong to the detectable labels. The detectable labels can be
   incorporated or attached to the target nucleic acids, e.g., in form of modified and/or
   labelled ribonucleotides, deoxynucleotides or dideoxynucleotides.
20          Labeling can be achieved by methods well known in the art (see, for example,
   Sambrook, J. et al., supra; and Lottspeich, F., and Zorbas H., supra). The labels can
   be selected from, inter alia, fluorescent labels, enzyme labels, colored labels,
   chromogenic labels, luminescent labels, radioactive labels, haptens, biotin, metal
   complexes, metals, and colloidal gold. All these types of labels are well established
25 in the art. An example of a physical reaction that is mediated by such labels is the
   emission of fluorescence or phosphorescence upon irradiation or excitation or the
   emission of X-rays when using a radioactive label. Alkaline phosphatase, horseradish
   peroxidase, P-galactosidase, and p-lactamase are examples of enzyme labels, which
   catalyze the formation of chromogenic reaction products. In specific embodiments,
30 the detectable labels are fluorescent labels. Numerous fluorescent labels are well
   established in the art and commercially available from different suppliers (see, for

                                               48
   example, The Handbook - A Guide to FluorescentProbes and Labeling
   Technologies, 10th ed. (2006), Molecular Probes, Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad,
   CA, USA, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety).
            For detecting such labels, a detection system can be used which is suitable for
 5 determining values indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on a support member. The detection system can be connected to the device
   500. Typically, the detection system is positioned opposite to one of the second
   structure 512, optionally opposite to a particular surface region where detection takes
   place. The selection of a suitable detection system depends on several parameters
10 such as the type of labels used for detection or the kind of analysis performed.
   Various optical and non-optical detection systems are well established in the art. A
   general description of detection systems that can be used with the method can be
   found, e.g., in Lottspeich, F., and Zorbas H., supra.
            Typically, the detection system is an optical detection system. In some
15 embodiments, performing the method involves simple detection systems, which can
   be based on the measurement of parameters such as fluorescence, optical absorption,
   resonance transfer, and the like.
            In further embodiments, detection systems are based on the comparison of the
   fluorescence intensities of spectrally excited nucleic acids labelled with fluorophores.
20 Fluorescence is the capacity of particular molecules to emit their own light when
   excited by light of a particular wavelength resulting in a characteristic absorption and
   emission behavior. In particular, quantitative detection of fluorescence signals is
   performed by means of modified methods of fluorescence microscopy (for review
   see, e.g., Lichtman, J.W., and Conchello, J.A. (2005) Nature Methods 2, 910-919;
25 Zimmermann, T. (2005) Adv. Biochem. Eng. Biotechnol. 95, 245-265, which is
   incorporated by reference in its entirety). Thereby, the signals resulting from light
   absorption and light emission, respectively, are separated by one or more filters
   and/or dichroites and imaged on suitable detectors. Data analysis is performed by
   means of digital image processing. Image processing can be achieved with several
30 software packages well known in the art (such as Mathematica Digital Image

                                               49
    Processing, EIKONA, or Image-PRO). Another suitable software for such purposes
    is the Iconoclust software (Clondiag Chip Technologies GmbH, Jena, Germany).
             Suitable detection systems can be based on classical methods for measuring a
    fluorescent signal such as epifluorescence or darkfield fluorescence microscopy
 5  (reviewed, e.g., in: Lakowicz, J.R. (1999) PrinciplesofFluorescence Spectroscopy,
    2 "ded., Plenum Publishing Corp., NY, which is incorporated by reference in its
    entirety).
             Another optical detection system that can be used is confocal fluorescence
    microscopy, wherein the object is illuminated in the focal plane of the lens via a
10  point light source. Importantly, the point light source, object and point light detector
    are located on optically conjugated planes. Examples of such confocal systems are
    described in detail, for example, in Diaspro, A. (2002) Confocal and 2-photon
    microscopy: Foundations,Applications and Advances, Wiley-Liss, Hobroken, NJ,
    which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The fluorescence-optical system is
15  usually a fluorescence microscope without an autofocus, for example a fluorescence
    microscope having a fixed focus.
             Further fluorescence detection methods that can also be used include, inter
    alia, total internal fluorescence microscopy (see, e.g., Axelrod, D. (1999) Surface
   fluorescence microscopy with evanescent illumination, in: Lacey, A. (ed.) Light
20  Microscopy in Biology, Oxford University Press, New York, 399-423), fluorescence
    lifetime imaging microscopy (see, for example, Dowling, K. et al. (1999) J. Mod.
    Optics 46, 199-209), fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET; see, for
    example, Periasamy, A. (2001) J Biomed. Optics 6, 287-291), bioluminescence
    resonance energy transfer (BRET; see, e.g., Wilson, T., and Hastings, J.W. (1998)
25  Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 14, 197-230), and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy
    (see, e.g., Hess, S.T. et al. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 697-705); each of the above is
    incorporated by reference in its entirety.
             In specific embodiments, detection is performed using FRET or BRET,
    which are based on the respective formation of fluorescence or bioluminescence
30  quencher pairs. The use of FRET is also described, e.g., in Liu, B. et al. (2005) Proc.
    Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102, 589-593; and Szollosi, J. et al. (2002) J Biotechnol. 82,

                                               50
   251-266. The use of BRET is detailed, for example, in Prinz, A. et al. (2006)
   Chembiochem. 7, 1007-1012; and Xu, Y. et al. (1999) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96,
   151-156; each of the above is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
            Determining one or more values indicative of the presence and/or amount of
 5 the captured target nucleic acids can include time-dependent monitoring of the one or
   more indicative values obtained (i.e., the repeated performing of the
   determination/detection step and monitoring the course of the indicative value over
   time).
            The step of providing the target nucleic acids can include releasing the target
10 nucleic acids from biological material included in the sample. To this end, the
   sample can be heated in order to destroy cellular membranes and/or viral capsids
   (e.g., by employing a temperature control unit and/or temperature regulating unit as
   described below). In some embodiments, this releasing step includes contacting the
   fluid sample with a lysing reagent, for example a reagent including one or more
15 detergents which disintegrate the cellular membranes and/or viral capsids. Such
   lysing reagents are well known in the art (see, for example, Sambrook, J. et al.
   (1989) Molecular, Cloning: A LaboratoryManual,2nd ed., Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY) and commercially available by many
   suppliers.
20          The method can further include separating the one or more target nucleic
   acids from concomitant material.
            Providing the target nucleic acids can be performed spatially separated from
   the steps of contacting the complexes each including a target nucleic acid and a
   capture molecule with the binding member, subjecting the target nucleic acids to
25 amplification, capturing the amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding
   member and determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the
   captured target nucleic acids. E.g., the target nucleic acids can be provided in the
   same structure 502 in which the complexes each including a target nucleic acid and a
   capture molecule are formed.
30          In a further embodiment, the method is performed in a device as described
   above. For example, the device can include a first well 502 and the complexes each

                                               51
   including a target nucleic acid and a capture molecule are formed in the first well
   502. Further, the device can include a second well 512 and determining a value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured target nucleic acids can be
   performed in the second well 512 configured for detecting one or more target nucleic
 5 acids. The second well 512 can include a cover element covering the second well and
   an actuator unit adapted for being actuated to deform the cover element. Further,
   subjecting one or more target nucleic acids to amplification and/or recapturing the
   amplified target nucleic acids with respect to the binding member can also be
   performed in the second well 512.
10         Determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the captured
   target nucleic acids can be performed with the actuator actuated to deform the cover
   element. In such an embodiment, the cover element can be deformed in such a way
   that the volume of the detection well 512 is reduced. Further, the volume of the
   second well can be re-increased after determining the value indicative of the
15 presence and/or amount of the captured target nucleic acids.
           According to another embodiment, a method is provided, including
   a)      providing an amount of a reporter compound; a first binding member being
           configured to bind an anchor group of a capture molecule; a second binding
           member capable of capturing the reporter compound; an amount of a target
20         nucleic acid capable of forming complexes with the reporter compound; the
           forming of complexes with a reporter compound inhibiting capturing of the
           reporter compound by the second binding member; an amount of capture
           molecules wherein each capture molecule includes a binding portion specific
           to a region of the target nucleic acids and an anchor group;
25 b)      forming complexes each including a target nucleic acid and a capture
           molecule;
   c)      contacting the complexes with the first binding member to bind the
           complexes to the first binding member;
   d)      releasing at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid from the first
30         binding member;

                                                52
   e)      forming complexes of a subset of the amount of a reporter compound with at
           least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid;
   f)      capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in
           complex with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member; and
 5 g)      determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter
           compound captured on the second binding member.
                   A reporter molecule or reporter compound can be any molecule that is
   capable of forming complexes with one or more target nucleic acids and that can be
   captured on a support member, e.g., the second binding member, wherein the
10 forming of complexes with the target nucleic acids inhibits the capturing of the
   reporter compound on the support member, e.g., the second binding member. The
   term "capable of forming complexes" can refer to any interaction between a reporter
   molecules and a target nucleic acid. In other words, the term denotes the binding of
   the molecules to each other that can be accomplished via a common or different
15 binding regions included in the reporter molecule that mediate the interaction with
   the target (such as via Watson-Crick base pairing between complementary nucleotide
   sequences). Typically, the interaction is reversible. Analogously, being captured on a
   support member or being captured on the second binding member includes any direct
   or indirect (for example, via capture molecules; see below) interaction of a reporter
20 molecule with a given support member. This interaction is generally reversible as
   well.
                   In general, the reporter molecules can be nucleic acid molecules (i.e.,
   RNA or DNA molecules as described above) having a length of 10 to 100
   nucleotides, for example 15 to 50 nucleotides, 15 to 40 nucleotides or 20 to 30
25 nucleotides. Usually, the reporter molecules are single-stranded nucleic acid
   molecules (i.e., oligonucleotides). The reporter compound is configured such that the
   binding of such a reporter molecule to a target nucleic acid to be detected inhibits the
   capturing of the reporter molecule on the second binding member. The nucleic acid
   reporter molecules can include at least one specific binding region (herein also
30 referred to as "interaction site") that is not only capable of interacting with the target
   nucleic acid (e.g., by binding to an at least partially complementary sequence region

                                                53
   of the target nucleic acid, thus allowing, e.g., Watson-Crick base-pairing between the
   reporter molecule and the target nucleic acid to be detected), but also of being
   captured on the second binding member. Typically, the specific binding region
   included in the reporter molecule is at least 12 nucleotides in length, e.g., at least 15
 5 nucleotides, at least 18 nucleotides or at least 22 nucleotides. In particular
   embodiments, the nucleotide sequence of the binding portion of the reporter
   molecules is complementary to the corresponding nucleotide sequence of the target
   nucleic acid.
                    One or more species of reporter molecules can be employed; in other
10 words one or more different types of reporter molecules such as one or more nucleic
   acid molecules having different nucleotide sequences can be used.
            A first binding member can be a binding member as described above. For
   example, a first binding member can refer to any solid matrix to which capture
   molecules, and thus also any complexes including such capture molecules, can be
15 coupled via the anchor group of the capture molecules by covalent or non-covalent
   interactions. Examples of such matrices include, inter alia, synthetic particles such as
   magnetic beads (e.g., paramagnetic polystyrol beads, also known as Dynabeads@)
   and latex beads.
                    A second binding member can be a binding member as described
20 above. For example, a second binding member refers to any solid matrix, on which
   the reporter molecules can be captured either directly (e.g., via an anchor group
   included in the reporter molecule) or in an indirect manner via one or more species of
   reporter specific capture molecules capable of capturing a reporter molecule to the
   second binding member by covalent or non-covalent interactions. Examples of
25 second binding members that can be used include, inter alia, the substrates of array
   elements (e.g., microscope slides, wafers or ceramic materials).
                    A reporter specific capture molecule can be any molecule being
   included on (e.g., that attached to or immobilized on) the second binding member
   that shows a specific binding behavior and/or a characteristic reactivity, which makes
30 it suitable for the formation of complexes with a reporter molecule (i.e., the binding
   to the reporter molecule). Nucleic acids are typically used as capture molecules.

                                                54
   Examples of nucleic acids that can be used as reporter specific capture molecules
   include naturally occurring nucleic acids such as deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or
   ribonucleic acid (RNA) as well as nucleic acid analogs such as inter alia peptide
   nucleic acids (PNA) or locked nucleic acids (LNA). Specific examples of naturally
 5 occurring nucleic acids include DNA sequences such as genomic DNA or cDNA
   molecules as well as RNA sequences such as hnRNA, mRNA or rRNA molecules or
   the reverse complement nucleic acid sequences thereof. Such nucleic acids can be of
   any length and can be either single-stranded or double-stranded molecules.
   Typically, reporter specific capture molecules are single-stranded oligonucleotides
10 having a length of 10 to 100 nucleotides, e.g., of 15 to 50 nucleotides or 20 to 30
   nucleotides.
                   The reporter specific capture molecules can include at least one
   specific sequence region (i.e., the binding region), which is configured to bind a
   reporter molecule, for example, to interact with a complementary sequence region of
15 a reporter molecule via base-pairing between the reporter specific capture molecules
   and the nucleic acid to be detected. Typically, the specific binding region is at least
   12 nucleotides in length, e.g., at least 15 nucleotides, at least 18 nucleotides or at
   least 22 nucleotides. In particular embodiments, the nucleotide sequence of the
   binding region of the reporter specific capture molecules is complementary to the
20 corresponding nucleotide sequence of the reporter molecule.
                   In some embodiments, at least a part of an interaction site of the
   reporter compound being capable of forming a complex with a target nucleic acid is
   also capable of forming a complex with a reporter specific capture molecule. In other
   words, the reporter specific capture molecules and the target nucleic acids compete
25 for forming a complex with the reporter compound, that is, the respective binding
   regions included in the reporter specific capture molecules and the target nucleic
   acids recognize the same or at least similar corresponding sequence(s) of a reporter
   molecule. The term "similar sequences", as used herein, denotes sequences that differ
   only in one or more single nucleotide mismatches (i.e., non-complementary pairs of
30 nucleotides) or by one or more single nucleotide addition, insertion or deletion (i.e.,
   additional or lacking nucleotide residues). Thus, the respective binding regions

                                                 55
   included in the reporter specific capture molecules and the target nucleic acids are at
   least partially identical. The term "partially identical", as used herein, denotes
   sequences differing only in one or more single nucleotides, as described above, or
   sequences having overlapping binding sites, i.e., sequences sharing a common
 5 nucleotide sequence but differ in at least one other part of the sequence region.
   However, it is also possible that the respective binding regions included in the
   reporter specific capture molecules and the target nucleic acids recognize different,
   non-overlapping (e.g., adjacent) sequences of a reporter molecule but binding of
   either the reporter specific capture molecule or the target nucleic acid to the reporter
10 molecule sterically interferes with the binding of the other one.
                    One or more species of reporter specific capture molecules can be
   employed; in other words, one or more different types of reporter specific capture
   molecules such as one or more nucleic acid molecules having different nucleotide
   sequences can be used. More than one species of reporter specific capture molecule
15 concomitantly used are also referred to as library. Such libraries include at least two
   but can also include many more different molecules, e.g., at least 10 different
   species, at least 20 different species, at least 50 different species and so forth. The
   libraries can also be arranged on different locations with respect to the second
   binding member. For example, they can be present in form of arrays or any other
20 spatial arrangement.
                    An array (or microarray) can be a defined spatial arrangement (layout)
   of capture molecules such as reporter specific capture molecules on a binding
   member, e.g., the second binding member (also referred to as substrate), where the
   position of each molecule in the array is determined separately. Typically, the
25 microarray includes defined sites or predetermined regions (also called array
   elements or spots), which can be arranged in a particular pattern, where each array
   element typically includes only one species of capture molecules. The arrangement
   of the capture molecules such as reporter specific capture molecules on the support,
   e.g., the second binding member can be generated by means of covalent or non
30 covalent interactions. However, the capture molecules can also be directly
   immobilized within the reaction chamber of a device used for performing the method

                                               56
   (see below).
           Typically, the target nucleic acids are not subjected to the method in isolated
   form but in form of a sample that is suspected of including one or more species of
   target nucleic acids, i.e., one or more different types of nucleic acids such as
 5 molecules having different nucleotide sequences and/or molecules descending from
   different origins (e.g., nucleic acids derived from different pathogens infecting a host
   cell).
           In some embodiments, the method further includes determining a value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid based on the value
10 indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the
   second binding member. That is, the presence and/or amount of the one or more
   target nucleic acids present in a particular sample can be calculated based on the
   difference between the presence and/or amount of reporter compound being present
   prior to the forming of target nucleic acid/reporter molecule complexes and the
15 amount of reporter compound being captured on the second binding member after
   said complex formation.
           For performing the detection reaction, the reporter compound can include one
   or more detectable labels as described above. In specific embodiments, the detectable
   labels are fluorescent labels. Numerous fluorescent labels are well established in the
20 art and commercially available from different suppliers (see, for example, The
   Handbook - A Guide to FluorescentProbes and Labeling Technologies, 10th ed.
   (2006), Molecular Probes, Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
           For detecting such labels, the device used for performing the method can
   further include a detection system suitable for determining values indicative of the
25 presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding
   member. E.g., a detection system suitable for determining values indicative of the
   presence and/or amount of target nucleic acids captured on a binding member as
   described above can be used.
           In some embodiments, the method further includes releasing the remaining
30 subset of the amount of reporter compound from the second binding member after
   the steps of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with

                                                57
   at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid, capturing a remaining subset of
   the amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
   second binding member, and determining the value indicative of the presence and/or
   amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding member.
 5          In further embodiments, the steps of releasing, forming complexes, capturing,
   and determining are repeated N additional times, where N is an integer greater than
   or equal to 1. In other words, the method is performed in a cyclic manner. In specific
   embodiments, the integer N is    > 5, > 10 or    20.
            Further, the step of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter
10 compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and the step of
   capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex
   with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member can be performed
   concomitantly.
            In particular embodiments, the method further includes subjecting the target
15 nucleic acids to amplification, that is, to increase their amount present in the sample
   before subjecting the same to the further analysis in order to facilitate further
   detection. Typically, target nucleic acid amplification is achieved by means of a
   cyclic amplification. The cyclic amplification can include any number of
   amplification cycles that is equal or greater than two. Usually, cyclic amplification
20 reaction includes at least 10 or at least 20 cycles.
            An exemplary cyclic amplification is a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as
   described above. Typically, PCR is used for the amplification of double-stranded
   DNA molecules by employing a thermostable DNA polymerase. In some
   embodiments, the DNA polymerase used in the cyclic amplification has exonuclease
25 activity, particularly 5'-+3' exonuclease activity. Examples of such DNA
   polymerases include inter alia Taq DNA polymerase or Tth DNA polymerase (which
   are commercially available from multiple providers). By means of this 5'-+3'
   exonuclease activity the DNA polymerase can nucleolytically attack the labelled 5'
   termini of reporter molecules that are bound to the target nucleic acids resulting in a
30 progressive degradation of such reporter molecules. As a result, the amount of
   reporter compound that is captured on the second binding member additionally

                                               58
   decreases during each cycle of the amplification reaction. Optionally, the DNA
   polymerase employed can also exhibit 3'->5' exonuclease activity ("proofreading
   activity") for removing an incorrect nucleotide that has been added to the nascent
   DNA strand at a particular sequence position. Examples of such DNA polymerases
 5 having both exonuclease activities include inter alia Pwo DNA polymerase, and Pfu
   DNA polymerase (both enzymes are also commercially available from various
   suppliers).
           If the target nucleic acid is a RNA molecule, the method can further include
   subjecting the target nucleic acid to reverse transcription as described above prior to
10 subjecting them to amplification.
           Amplification of the target nucleic acid can be initiated prior to the step of
   forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid. That is, the target nucleic acid is
   subjected to amplification while allowing reporter compounds to form a complex
15 with a target nucleic acid, and reporter compounds not in complex with a target
   nucleic acid to be re-captured on the second binding member.
           For nucleic acid amplification, a device 500 as illustrated in Figures 18 and
   19 can be used for performing the method which can further include one or more
   temperature control units and/or temperature regulating units as described above for
20 controlling and/or regulating the temperature within the structure or reaction
   chamber, e.g., the central well 502. Measuring the temperature in the reaction
   chamber can be performed as described above.
           The detection/determination of a value indicative of the presence and/or
   amount of the target nucleic acids can be performed only once or more than once
25 during the assay performed. In case, more than one detection step during a single
   assay is performed, in some embodiments the mean value of the results obtained can
   be calculated. The data obtained in one or more cycles of detection can be analyzed
   and mathematically processed using appropriate computer software known by
   persons skilled in the art in order to determine inter alia the presence, the length or
30 the sequence of one or more target nucleic acids and/or to calculate its/their amount.

                                               59
            In some embodiments, particularly if the reporter compound is in excess of
   the target nucleic acid, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter
   compound captured on the second binding member is determined before the forming
   of complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a subset
 5 of the amount of target nucleic acid and the capturing of a remaining subset of the
   amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
   second binding member are in chemical equilibrium. For example, the
   determination/detection step is performed during the annealing step of an
   amplification reaction. However, it is also possible to perform the
10 determination/detection reaction after completion of the annealing step (i.e., during
   or after completion of the elongation step).
            In a further embodiment, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of reporter compound captured on the second binding member is determined 1
   seconds to 120 seconds (e.g., 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 60 or 120 s) after initiating the
15 steps of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at
   least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid and of capturing a remaining
   subset of the amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid
   on the second binding member.
            In other embodiments, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
20 reporter compound captured on the second binding member is determined after at
   least one cycle of the cyclic amplification including denaturation, annealing, and
   elongation steps, e.g., during or after completion of the annealing step. In specific
   embodiments, said value is determined after each cycle of the cyclic amplification. In
   other specific embodiments, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
25 target nucleic acid is determined each time after determining the value indicative of
   the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding
   member.
            In some embodiments, determining the value indicative of the presence
   and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the second binding member
30 includes time-dependent monitoring of the indicative value (i.e., the repeated

                                                60
   performing of the determination/detection step and monitoring the course of the
   indicative value over time).
            In further embodiments, the value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
   target nucleic acid is determined based on a calibration curve correlating the value
 5 indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound with the value
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid.
            The method can be performed in a device as described above including a
   structure adapted for accommodating liquids, wherein the structure includes at least
   one binding member and is in fluid communication with a microfluidic network; and
10 a control unit adapted for controlling a fluid flow through the microfluidic network in
   such a manner that target molecules are captured at the at least one binding member,
   adapted for controlling an amplification of the target molecules in the structure, and
   adapted for controlling detection of compounds captured at the at least one binding
   member. For example, the method can be performed in a device including a rigid
15 substrate; a flexible cover element at least partially covering the substrate; a first
   structure formed in the substrate, adapted for accommodating liquids and adapted for
   releasing contents of one or more cells, spores or viruses, the contents including
   target molecules; a second structure formed in the substrate, adapted for
   accommodating liquids and including at least one binding member adapted for
20 capturing the target molecules and for determining a value indicative of the presence
   and/or amount of the target molecules; a microfluidic network interconnecting at
   least the first structure and the second structure; and an actuator unit adapted for
   effecting a fluid flow between the first structure and the second structure by pressing
   the flexible cover element against the substrate to selectively close a portion of the
25 microfluidic network.
            E.g., a device 500 can be used which includes a first well 502. In such an
   embodiment, the step of forming complexes each including a target nucleic acid and
   a capture molecule is performed in the first well.
            The device 500 can include a second well 512. In such an embodiment, the
30 first binding member and the second binding member are provided in the second well
   and the steps of contacting the complexes with the first binding member to bind the

                                               61
   complexes to the first binding member; releasing at least a subset of the amount of
   target nucleic acid from the first binding member; forming complexes of a subset of
   the amount of a reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount of target
   nucleic acid; capturing a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in
 5 complex with a target nucleic acid on the second binding member; and determining a
   value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the
   second binding member are performed in the second well.
           According to another exemplary embodiment of the invention the method
   includes:
10 -       forming a composition of matter including:
           an amount of a reporter compound,
           a binding member capable of binding the reporter compound, and
           an amount of a target nucleic acid capable of binding the reporter compound,
           the binding of the target nucleic acid to the reporter compound inhibiting
15         binding of the reporter compound to the binding member;
   -       binding a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a subset of
           the amount of target nucleic acid;
       -   binding a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in
           complex with a target nucleic acid on the binding member; and
20     -   determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter
           compound bound to the binding member.
           In a first step, the method can include forming a composition of matter
   including an amount of a reporter compound, a binding member, and an amount of a
   target nucleotide. The term "forming a composition", as used herein, denotes any
25 combining or mixing of the components described above. This can be achieved by
   introducing the components either simultaneously, consecutively or separately into
   one or more reaction chambers of an analytical device suitable for performing the
   method. Alternatively, it is also possible to mix the individual components before
   introducing the mixture into the device.
30         As already described above, the method can also be performed with more
   than one reporter compound and more than one target nucleotide. Thus, in some

                                               62
   embodiments, the step of forming a composition of matter includes forming a
   composition of matter including:
   -       an amount of a first reporter compound,
       -   an amount of a first target nucleic acid capable of forming complexes with
 5         the first reporter compound, the forming of complexes with the first reporter
           compound inhibiting capturing of the first reporter compound by the binding
           member,
   -       an amount of a second reporter compound, and
       -   an amount of a second target nucleic acid capable of forming complexes with
10         the second reporter compound, the forming of complexes with the second
           reporter compound inhibiting capturing of the second reporter compound by
           the binding member.
           The device can be any instrumentation suitable for assaying samples by
   means of the method. Typical devices for use in the method are described herein.
15 Exemplary embodiments of such a device are illustrated in Figures 17 to 19. Further
   devices suitable for performing the method are described in the European patent
   application EP 06 122 695 and the international patent application WO 2007/051861,
   each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
           In some embodiments, the reaction chamber can include two or more sub
20 chambers. This can be achieved by providing the first surface and/or the second
   surface with one or more partitions or cavities, which serve as lateral sidewalls
   between the two or more sub-chambers.
           In a further embodiment, a device used in the method includes more than one
   reaction chamber in order to perform multiple assays of one sample in parallel or to
25 perform different steps of an assay in a serial manner in different reaction chambers.
   To this end, the reaction chambers can be in fluid communication with each other.
   Fluid communication includes any interconnection between the individual reaction
   chambers, either directly or indirectly via an additional means such as a common
   sample introduction passage, filling unit, processing unit or the like. However, as
30 used herein, the term does not necessarily mean that, after introducing a sample, the
   reaction chambers are in permanent fluid communication with each other. It is also

                                               63
   possible that the reaction chambers are in transient fluid communication, for example
   achieved by unidirectional or bidirectional valves at the connections between the
   reaction chambers.
           After forming the composition of matter, the method can include the step of
 5 forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid. In other words, the reporter molecules
   can be allowed to bind to the target nucleic acids, for example by forming double
   stranded nucleic acid molecules via base pairing of complementary nucleotide
   sequences of the reporter compound and the target nucleic acid, respectively. The
10 fact that a subset of the amount of reporter compound forms complexes with at least
   a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid present denotes that the total
   concentration of reporter molecules present at the beginning of the assay can exceed
   the total concentration of target nucleic acids present.
            Subsequently, the remaining amount of reporter compound that is not in
15 complex with a target nucleic acid can be captured (i.e., bound) on the binding
   member via the one or more binding regions included in the reporter molecule
   described above (either directly or by binding to capture molecules being attached to
   the binding member). Since the forming of complexes of the target nucleic acids with
   the reporter molecules inhibits the capturing of the reporter molecule on the binding
20 member, the forming of target nucleic acid/reporter molecule complexes decreases
   the amount of reporter molecules that can be captured on the binding member as
   compared to the amount being present prior to performing the step of forming target
   nucleic acid/reporter molecule complexes.
            Finally, the method can include determining a value indicative of the
25 presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the binding member.
   Determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound
   captured on the binding includes the detection/determination of parameters such as
   electrical conductivity, redox potential, optical absorption, fluorescence intensity or
   bioluminescence that allow for qualitative and/or quantitative measurements of the
30 reporter molecules captured (or re-captured) on the binding member. Only one of
   these parameters can be determined but it is also possible to determine more than one

                                               64
   parameter (e.g., electrical conductivity and the intensity of a fluorescence signal
   caused by a suitable label), either concomitantly or consecutively.
            For performing the detection reaction, the reporter compound can include one
   or more detectable labels as described above, e.g., fluorescent labels. The detectable
 5 labels can be incorporated or attached to the reporter molecules, e.g., in form of
   modified and/or labelled ribonucleotides, deoxynucleotides or dideoxynucleotides.
            For detecting such labels, the device used for performing the method can
   further include a detection system as described above suitable for determining values
   indicative of the presence and/or amount of reporter compound captured on a binding
10 member, e.g., an optical detection system. The detection system can be connected to
   the reaction chamber. Typically, the detection system is positioned opposite to one of
   the at least one reaction chamber, optionally opposite to a particular surface region
   where detection takes place.
            In some embodiments, the method further includes releasing the remaining
15 subset of the amount of reporter compound from the binding member after the steps
   of forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at least a
   subset of the amount of target nucleic acid, capturing a remaining subset of the
   amount of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the
   binding member, and determining the value indicative of the presence and/or amount
20 of reporter compound captured on the binding member. The term "releasing", as used
   herein, denotes the detachment or unbinding of the reporter molecules from the
   binding member. This can be accomplished, for example, enzymatically via the
   cleavage any covalent bonds or in cases, where the nucleic acid reporter molecules
   are bound to the binding member by nucleic acid capture molecules via
25 complementary base-pairing, by increasing the temperature in the reaction chamber,
   in which the assay is performed, thus resulting in nucleic acid strand separation (i.e.,
   denaturation).
            In further embodiments, the steps of releasing, forming complexes, capturing,
   and determining are repeated N additional times, where N is an integer greater than
30 or equal to 1. In other words, the method is performed in a cyclic manner. In specific
   embodiments, the integer N is > 5,    > 10 or   20.

                                                65
           In some embodiments, prior to the step of forming complexes, the method
   further includes capturing at least a subset of the amount of reporter compound on
   the binding member; determining a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of
   reporter compound captured on the binding member; and releasing captured reporter
 5 compounds from the binding member. Thus, performing these additional steps
   enables the determination of the amount of reporter compound initially present
   before allowing the formation of complexes between receptor compound and target
   nucleic acid. Comparing the value obtained with that determined after capturing the
   subset of reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid on the binding
10 member provides a measure for the presence and/or amount of target nucleic acid
   present in a sample.
           In particular embodiments, the method further includes subjecting the target
   nucleic acid to amplification, that is, to increase their amount present in the sample
   before subjecting the same to the further analysis in order to facilitate further
15 detection. Typically, target nucleic acid amplification is achieved by means of a
   cyclic amplification. The cyclic amplification can include any number of
   amplification cycles that is equal or greater than two. Usually, cyclic amplification
   reaction includes at least 10 or at least 20 cycles. An exemplary cyclic amplification
   is a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as described above.
20         The detection/determination of a value indicative of the presence and/or
   amount of the target nucleic acids can be performed only once or more than once
   during the assay performed. In case, more than one detection step during a single
   assay is performed, the mean value of the results obtained is calculated. The data
   obtained in one or more cycles of detection can be analyzed and mathematically
25 processed using appropriate computer software known by persons skilled in the art in
   order to determine inter alia the presence, the length or the sequence of one or more
   target nucleic acids and/or to calculate its/their amount.
           Referring to FIG. 1a, a method 100 for determination of molecular targets
   includes a lysing step 102 (for lysing a sample, for instance whole blood, in the
30 presence of capture molecules with anchor groups), a complex formation step 110
   (for forming a complex of HIV nucleic acids and capture probes with anchor groups,

                                                66
   for instance hybridization), a capture step 114 (for capturing complexes onto a solid
   matrix, via anchor groups), a wash step 118 (for removing all unbound material, for
   instance nucleic acids, proteins, low molecular weight contaminants etc.), an
   amplification step 120 (for amplifying and labelling captured nucleic acids) and a
 5 detection step 126 (for detecting amplicons). According to method 100,
   polynucleotides are released from one or more target pathogens of a sample.
   Released polynucleotides that are associated with the target pathogens are captured at
   a surface. The captured polynucleotides are separated from concomitant materials
   (for instance, amplification inhibitors) of the sample. The separated captured
10 polynucleotides are amplified to form amplicons. The presence of the
   polynucleotides is determined by detecting the amplicons. Because the amplified
   polynucleotides are associated with the target pathogens, the presence and/or identity
   of the one or more target pathogens can be determined (for instance, qualitatively
   and/or quantitatively). In an exemplary embodiment, method 100 includes
15 determination of viral load based on a determination of one or more viruses present
   in a blood sample. Next, various steps of method 100 will be discussed.
           In lysing step 102, polynucleotides 106 are released from pathogens present
   in a blood sample 104. Polynucleotides can be released from target pathogens as
   desired (for instance, thermally, chemically, mechanically, or by combination
20 thereof). In an exemplary embodiment, polynucleotides are released by combining
   sample 104 with a lysing liquid that includes materials that lyse pathogens in the
   sample. Examples of liquids capable of lysing pathogens are found in Boom R., Sol
   C.J., Salimans M.M., Jansen C.L., Wertheim-van Dillen P.M., van der Noordaa J.,
   Rapid And Simple Method For Purification Of Nucleic Acids, J. Clin. Microbiol.
25 1990 Mar;28(3):495-503, which is incorporated herein by reference.
           An exemplary lysing liquid includes one or more of a denaturant (for
   instance, guanidine thiocyanate (GuSCN) (for instance, about 4.57 M)), a pH buffer
   (for instance, Tris-HCl, (for instance, pH 6.4, 45 mM), a chelator (for instance,
   EDTA 20mM), and a detergent (for instance, Triton X-100 1.2% (w/v) and/or
30 saponin (for instance, 0.2 % )), a salt (for instance, MgCl2 (for instance, 75 mM)
   and/or ZnCl2 (for instance, 1 mM)).

                                              67
           Lysing step 102 typically includes forming a mixture including released
   polynucleotides 106, concomitants of sample 104 (for instance, cellular components,
   amplification inhibitors, proteins, and other materials), and capture molecules 108i.
   Each capture molecule 108i includes a polynucleotide binding portion 109i and a
 5 biotin anchor group 111. Each polynucleotide binding portion 109i is a
   polynucleotide sequence complementary to (for instance, specific for) a different
   region of polynucleotide 106. For example, capture molecule 108a includes a binding
   portion 109a complementary to a target region 113 of polynucleotide 106 and
   capture molecule 108b includes a binding portion 109b complementary to a different
10 target region 115 of polynucleotide 106. Typically, at least one (for instance, two or
   more, three or more, four or more) different capture molecules are used for each
   polynucleotide to be determined.
           In some embodiments, polynucleotides 106 are released from target
   pathogens in the presence of capture molecules 108i. This can be accomplished by,
15 for example, essentially simultaneously combining sample 104 with the capture
   molecules 108i and lysing liquid components. Sample 104 can be combined with the
   capture molecules 108i and components of the lysing liquid can be combined with
   the capture molecules 108i and lysing liquid components a liquid state or in a dried
   (for instance, lyophilized) state.
20         In alternative embodiments, polynucleotides are released from pathogens of
   sample 104 and the resulting mixture is combined with capture molecules 108i. For
   example, sample 104 and the lysing liquid components excluding capture molecules
   108i can be combined and allowed to incubate for a period of time prior to
   combining the incubated mixture with capture molecules 108i.
25         In an exemplary embodiment, polynucleotides 106 are HIV-RNA and
   binding portions 109i of capture molecules 108i are complementary to regions
   thereof.
           Turning to complex formation step 110, one or more capture molecules 108i
   combine with (for instance, hybridize with) polynucleotide 106 to form a complex
30 112. Complex formation step 110 can be performed by, for example, allowing
   released polynucleotides 106 to incubate for a period of time in the presence of

                                                68
   capture molecules 108i sufficient to form complexes 112. In some embodiments, the
   incubation period is at least about 60 seconds (for instance, at least about 120
   seconds, at least about 360 seconds). In some embodiments, the incubation period is
   about 600 seconds or less (for instance, about 480 seconds or less, about 420 seconds
 5 or less). In an exemplary embodiment, the incubation period is about 5 minutes.
            For each polynucleotide to be determined, the total concentration of capture
   molecules 108i is typically sufficient to capture most (for instance, at least 60%, at
   least 75%, at least 90%, essentially all) of the polynucleotide in complexes 112. In
   some embodiments, the concentration of each of one or more (for instance, most or
10 all) of capture molecules 108i is at least about 0.1 pM (for instance, at least about 0.
   25 pM, at least about 0.5 pM). The concentration in of each of one or more (for
   instance, most or all) of capture molecules is typically about 2 pM or less (for
   instance, about 1.5 pM or less, about 1 pM or less). In an exemplary embodiment,
   the concentration of each of one or more (for instance, most or all) of capture
15 molecules is about 0.625 pM.
            Turning to capture step 114, complexes 112 and capture particles 117 are
   combined to form capture complexes 119. Each capture complex 119 includes one or
   more complexes 112 and a capture particle 117. Complexes 112 are typically bound
   non-selectively to particle 117. Each capture particle 117 includes a streptavidin
20 capture surface 116. Capture particles 117 capture each complex 112 by interaction
   between one or more biotin anchor groups 111 of capture molecules 108i and
   streptavidin capture surface 116. Exemplary capture particles 117 include
   streptavidin sepharose beads (Amersham) having a diameter of about 34 pm pre
   washed with diH 20 to remove ethanol. Approximately 10,000 to 20,000 beads are
25 used per assays, corresponding to a binding capacity of about 3 nmol of biotin per 10
   pL of whole blood.
            Typically, capture step 114 is initiated after incubating sample 104 with
   polynucleotides 106 and capture molecules 108i for a time sufficient to form
   complexes 112. For example, sample 104 can be incubated in the presence of the
30 lysing liquid and capture molecules 108i prior to combining the resulting mixture
   with capture particles 117.

                                               69
            Typically, the total concentration of capture molecules 108i and particles 117
   is sufficient to quantitatively capture each of one or more selected polynucleotides
   106 associated with each of one or more target pathogens in sample 104. Thus, for
   each polynucleotide 106 to be determined, substantially all (for instance, at least
 5 75%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 97.5%, or essentially all) of the
   polynucleotide is captured by capture molecules 108i and particles 117.
            Turning to wash step 118, capture complexes 119 are separated from
   concomitant material (for instance, nucleic acids, proteins, cellular components,
   lysing reagents, and the like) not captured by particles 117. In some embodiments,
10 capture complexes 119 are filtered using a filter with pores small enough to prevent
   passage of complexes 119 but large enough to permit passage of material not
   captured by particles 117.
            Capture complexes 119 can be washed with a wash liquid to enhance
   separation of concomitant material. In some embodiments, at two or more different
15 wash liquids are used. In some embodiments, a first wash liquid contains a detergent
   to remove low molecular weight substances, proteins and other cellular components
   adhering to the particles via hydrophobic interaction and a second wash liquid
   removes the detergent which might otherwise interfere with the subsequent
   amplification process. An exemplary first wash liquid includes 0.15 M LiCl, 0.1%
20 SDS (since SDS is a PCR inhibitor, it can be removed prior to a PCR procedure), 10
   mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, and 1 mM EDTA). An exemplary second wash liquid includes
   0.15 M LiCl, 10 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0, 1 mM EDTA. Suitable wash liquids are
   described in, for example, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20040215011 A1,
   which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
25          Turning to amplification step 120, polynucleotides 106 are amplified using
   probes 122. Typically, the amplification is a PCR amplification. In an exemplary
   embodiment, polynucleotides 106 are RNA and the amplification is RT-PCR. In
   some embodiments, the pathogen is HIV.
            Referring to FIG. Id, in some embodiments, amplification step 120 produces
30 amplicons 130. Under hybridizing conditions (for instance, temperatures), amplicons
   130 are captured by the immobilized capture probe molecules 108a, 108b and 108c

                                               70
   at streptavidin surface 116 of particles 117. Amplicons are labelled with a fluorescent
   a labelling agent 125 including an optical label 124 (for instance, a fluorescent label)
   and a polynucleotide portion 129 complementary to a region of the amplicon 130.
            Referring to FIG. le, in an alternative embodiment, each probe 122 includes
 5 an optical label 124 (for instance, a fluorescent label). Other probes 108j include a
   polynucleotides portion 109j complementary to a region of amplicon 130 and also
   carry a biotin anchor group 111. Probe molecules 108j are captured to the
   streptavidin surface 116 of particles 117. Amplification step 124 produces directly
   labelled amplicons 130, each including a label 124. Amplicons 130 are captured by
10 the immobilized probe molecules 108j onto the streptavidin surface 116 of particles
   117. Binding portions 109j of probes 108j can be the same as, or different from,
   probes 108i used in capture step 114. Probes 108j and/or beads 117 can be combined
   with polynucleotides 106 along with other components used to perform amplification
   step 120.
15          In detection step 126, amplicons 130 are detected (for instance, by fluorescent
   detection of labels 111). Detection step 126 can be performed with amplicons 130
   captured at streptavidin surface 116 of particles 117. Detection step 126 can be
   performed without first combining amplicons with a liquid free of probes 122. For
   example, detection step 126 can be performed with captured amplicons 130 present
20 between first and second surfaces after reducing a distance the surfaces. An
   embodiment of this method for performing detection step 126 is discussed next with
   respect to FIG. lb and FIG. Ic.
            Referring to FIG. lb and FIG. 1c, a system 200 for performing at least
   detection step 126 of method 100 includes a microfluidic cartridge 202, a detection
25 system 210, a stencil actuator 212, and a processor 218, in communication with
   detection system 210 and actuator 212.
            Cartridge 202 includes a first substrate 206 and a second substrate 208, which
   together define a detection chamber 204. First substrate 206 is typically optically
   transmissive (for instance, clear) with respect to a wavelength of light useful for
30 exciting and detecting fluorescence from labels 124 of amplicons 130. First substrate
   206 can be formed of, for example, a polymer, glass, or silica. Second substrate 208

                                               71
   is formed of a pliable or flexible material (for instance, an elastomeric polymer).
   First substrate 206 is generally less flexible than second substrate 208.
           Actuator 212 includes a stencil 214 and a stencil driver 236 configured to
   drive stencil toward and away from second substrate 208. Stencil driver 236 can be
 5 actuated by, for example, compressed air, electromagnets, piezo electric or another
   suitable actuation. As seen in FIG. Ic, when actuated toward a wall 238 of second
   substrate 208, stencil 214 reduces a distance "d" between inner wall 232 of first
   substrate 206 and inner wall 234 of second substrate 208. In the reduced distance
   state of FIG. Ic, at least some capture particles 117 with captured amplicons 130
10 remain between surfaces 232, 234. In contrast, much of the liquid surrounding
   particles 117 is displaced from between surfaces 232, 234.
            Detection system 210 is configured to detect the presence of amplicons 130
   with cartridge 202 in the reduced distance state of FIG. Ic. Detection system 210
   includes a light source 246 (for instance, a laser), an imaging detector 240, and an
15 optical system 242. In use, light source 246 illuminates material present between
   inner surfaces 232, 234 of substrates 206, 208. Fluorescence 250 emitted from labels
   124 from amplicons 130 is detected. The detected fluorescence 250 is indicative of
   the presence of amplicons 130. Processor 218 receives a signal from detection
   system 210 indicative of the detected fluorescence. Processor 218 can determine the
20 presence of amplicons 130 and, therefore, the presence of the corresponding
   pathogens in sample 104.
            In general, liquid remaining between inner surfaces 232, 234 emits
   background fluorescence 252 not associated with the presence of amplicons 130. The
   intensity of background fluorescence 252 is generally proportional to the amount of
25 liquid remaining between inner surfaces 232, 234. The intensity of label fluorescence
   250 from labels 124 of amplicons 130, however, is spatially localized in the vicinity
   of particles 117. Imaging detector 240 receives and detects both label fluorescence
   250 and background fluorescence 252. However, because of the displacement of
   liquid from between inner surfaces 232, 234 in the reduced distance state of FIG. 1c,
30 the signal-to-noise of label fluorescence 252 relative to background fluorescence 250
   is higher than in the un-reduced state of FIG. lb.

                                              72
           An exemplary embodiment of method 100 can be performed as follows.
   Between about 5 and 10 pL of capillary blood (for instance finger tip, earlap) is
   obtained from an individual. The blood sample is combined with about 90 pL of a
   lysis buffer including lysing components and capture molecules 108i. The resulting
 5 mixture is incubated with agitation for about 5 minutes at 21 'C. The incubated
   mixture is combined with an amount of particles 117 equivalent to about 10 pL of
   slurry, corresponding to a binding capacity of 3 nmol biotin, i.e., particles are
   purchased as a slurry of particles in 20% ethanol). The mixture with particles is
   incubated with agitation for about 5 minutes at 21 'C. After incubation, supernatant
10 is removed by the stencil actuator system 350 for operating cartridge 300. The
   particles are washed with a first wash buffer (for instance, 3 times with 50 pl volume
   each time) and then with a second wash buffer (for instance, 3 times with 50 pl each
   time). After washing, the supernatant is removed. The washed particles are combined
   with an amplification medium and subjected to qRT-PCR amplification for detection
15 (for instance, quantization) of captured polynucleotides 106.
            Referring to FIG. 14, fluorescence from amplicons 130 is detected (for
   instance, using the reduced distance mode of an instrument such as that shown in
   FIG. lb and FIG. Ic). Amplicons 130 can be detected after each of multiple different
   heating and cooling cycles of the amplification. In this way, the build up of amplicon
20 concentration can be followed in time. Amplicons are typically detected while bound
   to particles 117.
            While method 100 has been described as including a step of releasing
   polynucleotides from pathogens, method 100 can include other steps for providing
   polynucleotides. In some embodiments, polynucleotides are released from non
25 pathogenic cells (for instance, plant, human, animal, or the like). In some
   embodiments, the polynucleotides are products of a gene expression analysis. In
   some embodiments, polynucleotides are provided without requiring a releasing step
   and/or as polynucleotides already released from a cell or other biological sample.
           Next, an embodiment of an assay system and a microfluidic cartridge will be
30 discussed typically capable of performing most (for instance all) steps of method
   100.

                                               73
            Referring to FIG. 2, a microfluidic cartridge 300 includes a first substrate
   301, a second substrate 303 and a microfluidic network 305. First and second
   substrates 301, 303 can have properties similar to those described for substrates 206,
   208 of cartridge 202.
 5          Microfluidic network 305 is configured to receive a sample and various
   reagent materials, permit operations to be performed on these materials (for instance,
   mixing, transport, and incubation), and to facilitate detection of amplicons indicative
   of the presence of one or more target pathogens.
            Microfluidic network 305 includes a sample inlet 302 connected by a channel
10 304 to a lysis chamber 306, which is connected by a channel 308 and a junction 307
   to a detection chamber 332; a first liquid inlet 310 is connected by a channel 312 to a
   first reagent chamber 314, which is connected by a channel 316 to junction 307; a
   second liquid inlet 318 is connected by a channel 319 to a second reagent chamber
   320, which is connected by a channel 322 to junction 307; and a third liquid inlet 324
15 is connected by a channel 326 to an amplification-labelling reagent chamber 328,
   which is connected by a channel 330 to junction 307. Junction 307 is connected to a
   waste chamber 334 via a waste channel 336. Detection chamber 332 is connected to
   waste chamber 334 via a waste channel 340, which includes a filter sized to prevent
   passage of particles 317 but to permit passage of un-captured material as described in
20 wash step 118 of method 100.
            Typically, reagent chambers 306, 314, 320, 328 include lyophilized reagents
   (for instance, as pellets) used to perform steps as described for method 100. In use, a
   liquid (for instance, water, buffer, aqueous solvent, or other liquid) is introduced to
   the inlet corresponding to a chamber. The liquid solubilises the lyophilized reagents
25 to form a liquid. In an exemplary embodiment, lysis chamber 306 includes
   lyophilized reagents to facilitate lysing of target pathogens and capture molecules
   308i corresponding to polynucleotides of the pathogens. Typically, lyophilized
   reagents of chamber 306 are solubilised by the sample (for instance, a whole blood
   sample) alone or in combination with added liquid. In an exemplary embodiment,
30 chamber 314 includes lyophilized reagents to form a wash liquid (for instance, a first
   wash liquid (buffer)) when combined with a liquid introduced to inlet 310. In an

                                                 74
   exemplary embodiment, chamber 320 includes lyophilized reagents to form a wash
   liquid (for instance, a second wash liquid (buffer)) when combined with a liquid
   introduced to inlet 318. In an exemplary embodiment, chamber 328 includes
   lyophilized reagents to form an amplification mixture (for instance, a second wash
 5 liquid (buffer)) when combined with a liquid introduced to inlet 324.
            Prior to use of device 300, particles 116 are typically disposed within network
   305 downstream of chamber 306. For example, particles 116 can be disposed within
   detection chamber 332 prior to use. Particles 116 can be washed with liquids from
   chambers 306,314,320,328 by appropriate actuation of stencils as discussed next.
10          Referring to FIG. 3, microfluidic cartridge 300 is shown in combination with
   a stencil actuator system 350 for operating cartridge 300. Actuator system 300
   includes an actuator base 352 and multiple stencils 354i. Each stencil 354i is actuated
   by a corresponding stencil driver similar to stencil driver 236. In use, cartridge 300 is
   positioned with flexible substrate 303 facing actuator base 352 and stencils 354i.
15 Each stencil 354i corresponds spatially to a different location of microfluidic
   network 305. For example, stencil 354d corresponds to waste channel 336. When
   actuated, stencil 354d compresses substrate 303 overlying channel 336 thereby
   obstructing channel 336 and preventing the passage of fluid there along.
            Thus, the flexible property of the second substrate 303 or cover element
20 ensures that it can be deformed in a reversible manner when a stencil 354i exerts a
   mechanical force onto a dedicated portion of the flexible second substrate 303. In
   other words, if a reversible valve action is desired, the deformation of the second
   substrate 303 is reversible to that extent that when the force applied by the stencil
   354i is removed, the second substrate 303 returns towards its original position such
25 that fluid can again pass along a corresponding channel 336.
            In contrast to this, the rigid property of the first substrate 301 refers to the fact
   that the material of the first substrate 301 is configured in such a manner that, upon
   exertion of a force by a stencil 354i onto the first substrate 301, no deformation of
   the first substrate 301 occurs which could have an influence on the valve function.
30 Consequently, the second substrate 303 provides for flexibility, whereas the first
   substrate 301 provides for stability.

                                               75
            Other stencils correspond similarly to other channels of network 305. Stencils
   354a, 354c respectively correspond to waste channel 340 and junction 307. Actuation
   of stencils 354a, 354c seals detection chamber 332 allowing multiple heating and
   cooling cycles to be performed without significant loss of liquid therein. Filter 341
 5 permits particles 116 within chamber 332 to be washed with liquids from chambers
   306,314,320,328 without loss of the particles. Still other stencils respectively
   correspond to chambers 306, 314, 320, 328, and 332. Repetitive actuation of these
   stencils can be used to agitate material (for instance, liquid) within the chambers to
   facilitate mixing (for instance, of samples and reagents). Sequential actuation of
10 stencils along a channel can be used to move liquids along the channel. Contents of a
   chamber can be emptied by, for example, actuation of respective stencils operating
   upstream, downstream, and upon the chamber.
            In one embodiment, the substrate is sufficiently reversible in that upon
   repeated stencil actuations and removals (e.g., at least ten actuations and removals, or
15 at least fifty actuations and removals), the substrate returns toward its original
   position so that the portion of a microfluidic network underlying a particular stencil
   can be repeatedly obstructed and reopened.
            Cartridge 300 can be operated as follows. An amount (for instance, between
   about 5-10 pL) of sample (for instance, whole blood) and an optional amount (for
20 instance, between about 5 and 50 pL) of liquid (for instance, water) is introduced to
   chamber 306 network 305 via inlet 302. An amount of liquid (for instance, between
   about 20 and 200 pL) is introduced to chambers 314,320,328 via corresponding
   inlets. The respectively introduced sample and optional liquid resolublises
   lyophilized reagents present in chambers 306, 314, 320, 328. Stencils corresponding
25 to each chamber are actuated to agitate the liquid reagent mixture therein to facilitate
   mixing. Within lysis chamber 306, the lysis buffer releases polynucleotides 106 from
   pathogens (for instance, as in lysing step 102). The released polynucleotides combine
   with capture molecules 108i to form complexes 112 (for instance, as in complex
   formation step 110).
30          The lysing mixture of chamber 306 is moved to the detection chamber 332
   and combined with particles 116 and incubated to form capture complexes 119 (for

                                               76
   instance, as in capture step 114). The mixture within chamber 332 can be agitated for
   instance using a stencil. At the end of the capture step 114 incubation,
   liquid/supernatant is removed from detection chamber 332 to waste chamber 334
   with the stencil actuator system 350 for operating cartridge 300.
 5         After removal of liquid/supernatant from waste chamber 332, wash liquid
   from chambers 314, 320 is moved through chamber 332 to separate concomitants
   from complexes 119 (for instance, as in wash step 118). Chamber 332 can be
   agitated via stencil 354b during washing.
           After separating concomitants from complexes 119 within chamber 332,
10 amplification reagents from chamber 328 are moved to detection chamber 332 and
   the resulting contents are subjected to multiple PCR cycles (for instance, as in
   amplification step 120).
           After each of one or more amplification cycles, stencil 354b is actuated to
   reduce a distance between opposed inner surfaces of detection chamber 332.
15 Complexes 119, if present, remain trapped between the inner surfaces whereas other
   contents are relatively displaced as discussed with respect to device 200 in FIG. 1c.
   Detection is typically performed using a fluorescence detection system (for instance,
   as described for device 200). Detection is typically performed with amplicons 130 of
   complexes 112 in the hybridized state and bound to particles 117 as complexes 119
20 (for instance, as in detection step 126). After each cycle, the population of amplicons
   130 increases. The fluorescence intensity resulting from capture complexes 119
   increases accordingly. The fluorescence intensity increase with cycle number can be
   monitored to determine the threshold cycle at which the amplicons 130 can by
   quantitized. Because polynucleotides 106 are captured quantitatively (for instance, as
25 in capture step 114), the quantitative detection of amplicons 130 permits the amount
   of polynucleotides 106 present in the sample to be determined quantitatively. Thus,
   for example, where the pathogen is a virus (for instance, HIV), the viral load within
   the sample (for instance, whole blood) can be determined.
           Cartridge 300 can further include an array including multiple immobilized
30 polynucleotides each corresponding to a polynucleotide sequence of a different
   pathogen subtype. After detection step 126, hybridization of amplicons 130 is

                                                77
   performed to determine the pathogen subtype. In an exemplary embodiment, the
   array includes polynucleotides configured to determine a subtype of HIV.
            While operation of cartridge 300 has been described as including the addition
   of liquid reagents, liquid reagents can be stored on the cartridge as in blister packs
 5 and released during use.
            Other examples of systems suitable for optically determining the presence of
   label 124 are described in each of the following applications: the U.S. continuation of
   International Patent Application PCT/EP2005/004923, filed on Jan 6, 2005, which
   designates the United States and claims priority to German Patent Application DE 10
10 2004 022 263, filed Jan 6, 2004, the U.S. continuation having serial no. US 11/593,
   021 and being filed November 6, 2006, each of which is incorporated by reference in
   its entirety.
            Next, referring to FIG. 4 to FIG. 16, various steps during an analysis
   procedure according to an exemplary embodiment will be explained.
15          FIG. 4 illustrates a lysis chamber.
            FIG. 5 to FIG. 10 illustrate capturing of RNA complexes onto a solid matrix.
            FIG. 11 illustrates washing.
            FIG. 12 and FIG. 13 illustrate amplification.
            FIG. 14 to FIG. 16 illustrate detection.
20          FIG. 17a illustrates an exemplary system 400 for performing at least the steps
   of capturing targets from a sample, amplification of the target and detection of one or
   more values indicative of the presence of the target in the sample.
            FIG. 17b illustrates an exemplary system 400 for performing at least the steps
   of capturing targets from a sample, amplification of the target and detection of one or
25 more values indicative of the presence of the target in the sample in operated state.
            FIG. 17c illustrates an exemplary embodiment for valve unit 435 depicted in
   FIGS. 17a and 17b.
            FIG. 17d illustrates an exemplary embodiment for valve 2 depicted in FIG.
   17c.
30          Referring to FIGS. 17a and b, the exemplary system 400 includes a
   microfluidic cartridge 401, a detection system 455, a system for heating at least a

                                                78
   part of the cartridge 451, actuator members 441-444 and actuators 437-440, a valve
   unit 435, a compressor 431, a liquid reservoir 461 and a processor 471.
            Cartridge 401 includes a substrate 402 and a first cover element 403 which
   together define a first and a second well 408 and 407. The first cover element 403 is
 5 at least partially flexible to allow the cover element to be reversibly pressed towards
   substrate 402. The cartridge further includes a second cover element which defines
   together with substrate 402 channels 410, 411, 412. In some embodiments, the
   second cover element is also at least partially flexible. Channels and wells are
   interconnected by holes 413, 414, 415, 416 to form a microfluidic network.
10          In various embodiments, the substrate 402 can be any physical body made of
   any suitable material, such as plastics, glass, metal or a semiconductor. It can be any
   essentially planar (i.e., two-dimensional) or non-planar (i.e., three-dimensional)
   surface. An example for such a three-dimensional object is a physical body having a
   cavity or well including a reaction chamber (in which a biological, chemical or
15 biochemical reaction can occur) including fluidic paths (like channels).
            The first well 408 which can also be denoted as a lysis well is adapted for
   accommodating fluids and for releasing contents of cells, spores, or viruses, the
   contents including target molecules to be analyzed by the system 400. For example,
   the first well 408 can be adapted for releasing contents of cells, spores, or viruses by
20 including lysing reagents 409 as described above. The lysing reagents 409 can be
   provided in dried form.
            A second well 407 which also can be denoted as a central well is adapted for
   accommodating fluids and includes particles 406 as first binding members, the
   particles adapted for capturing target in complex with capture molecules and,
25 optionally, a second binding member 417 adapted for capturing reporter molecules.
   The second well 407 further includes filter elements 405 to prevent passage of
   particles 406 but to permit passage of gases, liquids and substances solved in the
   liquids. Wells 407 and 408 are interconnected by channel 411 via through holes 415
   and 414.
30          More generally, the first and second wells 408, 407 can be any structure, i.e.,
   any physical entity which can serve as a carrier for receiving samples or substances.

                                               79
   Particularly, such structures can include recesses such as grooves, wells or channels,
   or can also cover a material in which substances can be accommodated and through
   which the substances can be moved, such as gels.
            In various embodiments, binding members include a component which is
 5 configured to bind molecules having a specific configuration. Such binding members
   can or can not be molecules immobilized on a surface. A binding capability can also
   result directly from a surface configuration (for instance a porous surface structure).
   It is also possible that binding members are provided as or on three-dimensional
   elements such as beads or a porous support. The surface of such a three-dimensional
10 element or further molecules attached to the surface of the three-dimensional
   element, e.g., particles, can then serve as binding members. Different binding
   members being sensitive to different molecules can also be arranged (for instance in
   a matrix-like manner) on a surface of a structure. Examples for binding members are
   described above with respect to the various methods disclosed herein.
15          Volumes of the lysis well 408 and of the central well 407 can be 100 pL. In
   an exemplary embodiment, the width of the channels 410-412 is 200 pim, and a
   height of the channels 410-412 is 100 pim.
            In various embodiments, such a microfluidic network can include one or
   more channels and/or wells, which can be interconnected to one another. For
20 example, the various channels of such a microfluidic network can be bifurcated or
   branched to thereby allow for a transport of liquids through the microfluidic network
   along predefined paths (not shown).
            The system 400 also includes an actuator system including actuator members
   441, 442, 443, 444 driven by pneumatic actuators 437, 438, 439, 440, a valve unit
25 435, a compressor 431 and a reservoir for compressed air 433. Compressor 431 can
   constantly adjust a defined pressure in the reservoir for compressed air 433.
            Each of the actuator members 441, 442, 443, 444 is actuated by a
   corresponding actuator. In use, cartridge 401 is positioned with the at least partially
   flexible cover element 403 facing the actuators and actuator members. Each actuator
30 member corresponds spatially to a different location of microfluidic network of
   cartridge 401. For example, actuator member 442 corresponds to hole 414 leading to

                                               80
   well 407 via channel 411 and hole 415. When actuated, actuator member 442
   compresses the at least partially flexible cover 403 overlying hole 414 thereby
   obstructing hole 414 and preventing the passage of fluid there along. Other actuator
   members correspond similarly to other structures. E.g., actuator members 443 and
 5 444 respectively correspond to holes 415 and 416. Actuation of actuator members
   415, 416 seals second well 407 allowing e.g., multiple heating and cooling cycles to
   be performed without significant loss of liquid therein.
           For exemplary actuation of actuator member 442 the control unit sends a
   signal to the valve unit. The valve unit opens the pneumatic connection 436 to
10 actuator 438 thereby applying a pressure to the actuator 438. Thus, actuator member
   442 moves out and compresses the at least partially flexible cover 403 overlying hole
   414. To release the actuator member, the control unit sends a respective signal to the
   valve unit. The valve unit closes the pneumatic connection leading to actuator 438
   thereby moving back the actuator member 442 and releasing the at least partially
15 flexible cover 403 overlying hole 414.
           The actuator member can be adapted to elastically deform the first flexible
   cover 403 to perform various tasks. For example, as described above actuator
   member 442 is adapted to compress the at least partially flexible cover 403 overlying
   hole 414 thereby obstructing hole 414 and preventing the passage of fluid there along
20 while actuator member 441 is adapted to move a liquid within well 408 by repeatedly
   pressing and releasing the first flexible cover overlying well 408.
           In one embodiment, an actuator member can be an element which is able to
   be moved to selectively open or close individual ones of the structures of the
   microfluidic network by mechanical forces. For example, such an actuator member
25 can be a pin or a stencil which can be pressed against a flexible cover element to
   press the latter onto a surface of the substrate, thereby selectively opening or closing
   the channels.
           In some embodiments, the tip of the actuator member 441, 442, 443, 444 is
   made of an elastic material such as silicone, gum or the like. The diameter of the
30 actuator members 442, 443 and 444 maybe 1.5 times the diameter of holes 414, 415
   and 416. A typical diameter for holes 414, 415 and 416 is 0.5 mm.

                                              81
           As described above, a pneumatic valve unit 435 is provided which is coupled
   to the actuators 437-440. The valve unit 435 receives drives signals from a control
   unit 471. Thus, the control unit 471 controls the operation of the actuator members
   441-444.
 5         The control unit 471 such as a microprocessor is provided and adapted for
   controlling an analysis of a fluidic sample in such a manner that target molecules of
   the fluidic samples are captured at the binding members 406. The control unit 471
   further controls an amplification of the target molecules in the central well 407.
   Moreover, the control unit 471 controls a detection of compounds indicative of the
10 presence and/or amount of the target molecules and captured at the binding members
   417. All solid phase coupling procedures during an analysis of the target molecules
   occur at the binding members 406 in the central well 407. Particularly, no solid phase
   coupling procedures occur in the lysis well 408.
           In an embodiment, a control unit can be an electronic component which is
15 capable of controlling the function of one or more other components of the device,
   and which can particularly coordinate the function of the individual components. In
   the control unit, a code or an algorithm can be stored or can be user-defined in
   software, in hardware, or in hybrid form (i.e., including software and hardware
   components), in a manner to be capable of performing a specific analysis,
20 experiment or assay. Particularly, such a control unit can include a processor having
   processing capability (optionally having also storage capability) and being
   configured to perform a specific experimental protocol. Particularly, such a control
   unit can be a microprocessor or a CPU (central processing unit).
           The temperature of fluids in the central well 407 can be manipulated by a
25 temperature manipulation unit including an pneumatic cooler 453, a temperature
   sensor (not shown) and a heating plate 451 arranged in vicinity of an upper surface of
   the substrate 402 and a second annular heating plate 451 having a central recess 459
   to allow for an optical detection of molecules in the central well 407. In some
   embodiments, the heating plates include a temperature sensor for adjusting the
30 temperature of the heating plates and/or of the second well. The control unit 471 can
   control the temperature distribution of the plates 451 to thereby manipulate the

                                               82
   temperature of liquids in the central structure 407 (for instance in accordance with a
   temperature sequence for performing a polymerase chain reaction, to amplify target
   molecules during the analysis). Particularly, the temperature manipulation unit 451
   has the capability to raise the temperature of the liquids located in the central well
 5 407 up to 95'C.
           Between the substrate 402 and the cover element 404, a fluid interface 418 is
   provided allowing inserting liquids such as water or buffers or gases such as air into
   the microfluidic system via channel 410 and hole 413. Another interface 482 can be
   provided which allows inserting a sample 481 into the microfluidic system.
10         In some embodiments, the substrate 402 is, at least partially, optically
   transparent to thereby allow for an optical radiation based detection of the
   components in the central well 407, as will be explained in the following.
           A detector system 455 including an optical light source (not shown) such as a
   laser diode is adapted for generating an electromagnetic radiation beam impinging
15 through the recess 459 in the second heating element 451 into the central chamber
   407. In the presence of fluorescence markers in this chamber 407, a secondary
   electromagnetic light beam is generated which can propagate through the recess 459
   in the second heating element 451 and can be detected by a detector (not shown) in
   the detector system 455 such as a photodiode. A detection signal of the detector
20 system 455 indicative of the concentration of the target molecules can be provided to
   the control unit 471 for further processing via control unit interface 456. Thus, as can
   be taken from FIG. 17, the control unit 471 also coordinates the function of the
   detector system 455.
           In some embodiments, during detection a detection actuator 457 compresses
25 the central well to reduce the distance between the flexible cover elements 403 and
   404 or between the flexible cover elements 403 and 404 and the substrate 402
   thereby removing liquid including material which has not bound to one of the
   binding members 406 or 417 from the detection zone.
           A liquid supply 461 is provided for pumping liquids such as water or buffers
30 through the microfluidic network formed by the wells 408, 407, by the through holes
   413, 414, 415, 416 and by the channels 410, 411, 412.

                                               83
           The transport of liquids through the device 400 can also be performed by
   sucking the liquid by a negative pressure (not shown). An optical sensor 464 can be
   provided to control the fluid level in chamber 408 as explained in the following. If
   well 408 is to be filled with liquid from liquid supply 461 the control unit 471 sends
 5 an according signal to valve unit 435 via interface 446. The valve unit opens a valve
   to apply pressure on liquid supply 461 via pneumatic connection 463 thereby
   pressing liquid from the liquid supply 461 into well 408 via liquid connection 462,
   channel 410 and hole 413.
           When optical sensor 464 detects a signal indicative of the presence of the
10 liquid in well 408, the sensor sends a signal to the control unit 471 via interface 465.
   The control unit 471 then sends a signal to valve unit 435. The valve unit closes the
   valve thereby stopping the pressure on liquid supply 461 thereby stopping the
   movement of the liquid out of well 408.
   Other optical sensors can be provided to control the liquid levels in other structures
15 such as channels (410, 411, 412, sensors not shown) or wells (407, sensors not
   shown).
           In various embodiments, the sample 481 can include any solid, liquid or
   gaseous substance, or a combination thereof. For instance, the substance can be a
   liquid or suspension, furthermore particularly a biological substance (such as blood,
20 particularly whole blood). Such a substance can include proteins, polypeptides,
   nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, viruses, bacteria, etc. In embodiments, a sample
   is a composition of matter possibly including a target.
           As can be taken from FIG. 17, the control unit 471 also controls the pump
   431 via interface 447. A reservoir 433 for compressed air can be provided so as to
25 harmonize the pumping procedure with the performance of the actuators 437-440, of
   the pneumatic cooler 453 and with the detection actuator 457.
           The system 400 further includes a user interface unit 472 which can also be
   denoted as an input/output device. Via the user interface unit 472, a user can define
   an experiment run by the system 400. In other words, the user interface 472 can
30 enable a user to program the system 400 so as to perform a specific assay. Such a
   user interface 472 can include a graphical user interface (GUI) having a display unit

                                                84
   such as an LCD, a plasma device, or a cathode ray tube. Furthermore, input elements
   can be provided at the user interface 472 such as a keypad, joystick, buttons, a
   trackball or even a microphone of a voice recognition system. The user interface 472
   is connected to the control unit via a data connection.
 5         Referring to figs. 17c and d, in some embodiments the valve unit 435 consists
   of a number (n) of single valves (2). Each valve is made of a rotor (2.1) including
   channels (2.3) and a stator (2.2) both consecutive mounted and fixed with 4 springs
   to apply a constant pressure. Each valve has 4 holes (a, b, c, d), a is connected with
   the ventilation, b) is connected to the compressor, c) is connected with the pneumatic
10 actuator and d) is connected to the ventilation site of the actuator
           The carrier (3) connected to a ball screw (4) that is placed inside the tube. A
   slot within the tube (6) enables the carrier to move. Rotation movement of the
   driving shaft (5) will result in a movement of the ball screw and the connected carrier
   in x-direction. That enables a movement of the carrier to the position of each valve
15 (2). The carrier will lock into the rotor (2.1).
   A 900 movement of the tube (6) will result in a 90' movement of the carrier (3) and
   rotor (2.1). The rotor and the pockets in the rotor disc will open or close the valve
   connections. (a,b and c,d; d,a and b,c).
           In the following, referring to FIG. 18 and FIG. 19, a device 500 according to
20 another exemplary embodiment will be explained. FIG. 18 shows a front view and
   FIG. 19 shows a back view of the device 500. The device 500 includes a groove 501,
   formed in a substrate 402, for inserting a cannula (not shown) via which a sample
   can be supplied to the device 500. A lysis chamber 502 is provided in which
   materials needed for lysing can be stored in a dried form. A central well 512 serves
25 for performing all solid phase coupling procedures required for operating the device
   500. Additional wells 504, 506, 508, and 510 are provided in which various further
   substances are provided in dried form and which can serve for washing procedures, a
   PCR procedure, etc. A waste chamber 514 is provided as a well in which liquids can
   be transported which are no longer needed for the analysis.
30         Although not shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19, a liquid absorbent material can
   be provided in the waste chamber 514 which can absorb fluids entering the waste

                                               85
   chamber 514. By taking this measure, undesired back flow of liquids from the waste
   chamber 514 into other portions of the device 500 can be securely prevented to
   thereby avoid any contamination. For instance, swellable polymers (which can also
   be used in diapers) can be employed for such a purpose.
 5         As can be taken particularly from FIG. 18, a plurality of fluid connection
   ports 520, 524, 521, 525, 540, 542, 544, 545, 548, 578, 580, 558, 562, 564, 560, 561,
   552, 550, 516, 554, 530, 528, 532 and 526 are provided connecting various ones of
   channels, which will be explained in the following.
           As can be taken from FIG. 19, additional fluid connection ports 541, 560,
10 566, 519, 512 are shown. Furthermore, a plurality of channels 538, 522, 518, 527,
   529, 536, 572, 574, 576, 539, 562, 570, 546, 556, 568 and 534 are foreseen to
   connect the various fluid connection ports 520, 524, 521, 525, 540, 542, 544, 545,
   548, 578, 580, 558, 562, 564, 560, 561, 552, 550, 516, 554, 530, 528, 532, 526, 541,
   560, 566, 519 and wells 502, 504, 506, 508, 510 and 512. Beyond this, a fluid inlet
15 port 593 is shown via which fluids such as water can be injected into the device 500.
   Via a fluid outlet port 594, fluid (such as air removed for reducing a pressure) can be
   removed from the device 500. A further fluid inlet/outlet port 597 is shown as well.
           A first window portion 598 accessible by a light barrier and a second window
   portion 599 accessible by a light barrier are shown which can serve to detect
20 optically when a meniscus of a fluid column within the device 500 passes transparent
   window portions 598, 599 related to the light barriers. When one of the light barriers
   detects that one of the chambers corresponding to the window portions 598, 599 is
   full with a liquid or overflows, this can be detected optically and can serve to
   generate a control signal for controlling a control unit (not shown in FIG. 18 and
25 FIG. 19) to control the operation of the device 500 correspondingly.
           When a first portion of a cannula is inserted into the groove 501, a second
   portion of the cannula can be inserted into a patient to take a blood sample from the
   patient and to directly inject the whole blood sample into the device 500.
           Although not shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19, any one of the fluid connection
30 ports 520, 524, 521, 525, 540, 542, 544, 545, 548, 578, 580, 558, 562, 564, 560, 561,
   552, 550, 516, 554, 530, 528, 532, 526, 541, 560, 566, 519 can be covered by a

                                               86
   flexible member which can be compressed by an actuator pin (not shown in FIG. 18
   and FIG. 19) so that the pins can serve for selectively opening or closing any
   individual one of the fluid connection ports 520, 524, 521, 525, 540, 542, 544, 545,
   548, 578, 580, 558, 562, 564, 560, 561, 552, 550, 516, 554, 530, 528, 532, 526, 541,
 5 560, 566, 519, thus fulfilling a valve function.
            Although not shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19, any one of the wells 502, 504,
   506, 508, 510 and 512 can be covered by a flexible member which can be
   compressed by an actuator pin (not shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19) so that the pins
   can serve for selectively pressing on the wells 502, 504, 506, 508, 510 and 512, thus
10 serving as mixers or pumps.
            As can be taken from FIG. 18, a component 587 forming the central well 512
   is a moulded plastic member which can be inserted into grooves 585, 583 of the
   substrate 402. This plastic member 587 can be patterned or structured from both
   sides so that components 590, 591, 578, 548, 580, 558, etc. are formed.
15          In the following, an assay performed in the device 500, particularly based on
   the central well 512, will be explained which can allow to perform a determination of
   HIV load in a fast manner, for instance in less than one hour.
            Within the central chamber 512, beads can be provided. These beads can be
   configured to capture target molecules (for instance HIV RNA) from a previously
20 lysed sample. E.g., the beads can be configured to bind an anchor group of a capture
   molecule to bind complexes including a target polynucleotide and the capture
   molecule, wherein the capture molecule includes a binding portion specific to a
   region of the target polynucleotide and the anchor group.
            Reference numeral 541 denotes a connection to pressurized air (see arrow in
25 FIG. 19) so that pressurized air can pass through elements 538, 518, 516 and will
   enter the well 502. Thus, it is possible to pump the well 502 empty using pressurized
   air. In case that a blood sample supplied via the groove 501 should be diluted with
   water, such water can be supplied via fluid inlet port 593.
            In one embodiment, a whole blood sample (or any other sample) can be
30 transported in the well 502, for instance for lysing. Blood can be soaked into the
   device 500 by first compressing the chamber, applying the blood to a capillary, the

                                                  87
   capillary in contact with the lysing chamber 502, then releasing the lysing chamber
   502 thereby soaking the blood into the device 500.
           For this purpose, the corresponding lysing agents as described above are
   provided in dried form in the lysis well 502. The lysis well can further include the
 5 capture molecules each including an anchor group and a binding portion specific to a
   region of the target polynucleotide. The sample which now can include complexes
   each including a target polynucleotide and a capture molecule can then be
   transported via components 554, 556 (via pressurized air) to the component 558. In
   this scenario, component 552 is closed by a corresponding actuator. Via components
10 558, 580, the sample can be transported into the central well 512. For this purpose,
   grooves 591, 590 of the central well 512 can be equipped with filters such as frits
   (not shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 19) preventing beads in the central well 502 from
   being removed from this well 502 under the influence of the streaming force of the
   fluids. Thus, via the filter or frit in the grooves 591, 590, the lysed sample can be
15 transported via component 576 into the central well 512.
           In the central well 512, a first binding member such as beads or a surface
   functionalization can be provided so that targets or complexes including a target
   polynucleotide and a capture molecule can bind on solid capture structures in the
   central chamber 512. An incubation can be performed so that the beads properly mix
20 with the sample material.
           An air stream presses the liquid (i.e., non-captured components of the lysed
   sample) from the central well 512 via components 558, 560, 561 into the waste 514.
   Thus, many of the sample components which have not been captured by the beads in
   the central well 512 are transported into the waste chamber 514. Thus, only targets
25 remain in the central well 512, and the remainder of the whole blood sample is now
   in the waste 514. Thus, the central well 512 now houses the beads together with
   complexes including capture probes and targets.
           Subsequently, the central well 512 can be washed, wherein components for a
   wash buffer provided in a solid manner in a wash well 504 are used to produce a
30 wash buffer. Such a washing procedure can be advantageous since, after the
   capturing procedure, some impurities can still be present in the chamber 502,

                                               88
   particularly when a whole blood sample is used or the sample is supplied via a
   cannula inserted into the groove 501.
           The wash liquid can be pumped, under the influence of air pressure, via
   components 541, 540, 542, 546, 548, 578, 591, 574, 512.
 5         As already indicated above, a wash buffer is prepared in the wash well 504.
   In the wash well 504, salts for such a wash buffer can be present in dried form. For
   preparing the wash buffer, water can be transported from component 566 via
   components 564, 562, 570, 552 (while component 554 is closed), 527 (components
   532, 525, 530 are closed), so that water is supplied to component 521 (open). Water
10 can be pumped in the wash well 504 until a transparent window coupled to
   component 520 is filled with water, which can be detected by detecting a meniscus
   passing the light barrier adjacent the transparent window next to component 520.
   Upon receipt of a corresponding detection signal, the supply of water can be
   terminated.
15         An actuator (not shown) can then reciprocate upwardly and downwardly to
   compress a flexible cover element covering the wash well 504 to perform mixing to
   dissolve the salts provided therein.
           Water filled channels can then be emptied by a corresponding control of the
   various valves and by supplying pressurized air, so that the water can be pumped into
20 the waste chamber 514.
           The prepared wash buffer in the wash well 504 can then be pressed into the
   central well 512 so that a washing procedure can be performed in the central well
   512. After this washing, the wash solution can be pumped in the waste chamber 514.
           Next, a reverse transcription can be performed to convert target RNA into a
25 corresponding DNA. Such a procedure is specifically necessary in case of detecting
   Retroviridaesuch as HIV, and can be dispensable in other cases, for instance when
   DNA viruses are detected. To perform such a reverse transcription, components
   required for reverse transcription such as a primer, an enzyme and a buffer can be
   pumped from a reverse transcription well 508 into the central well 512.
30         Optionally, the components in the reverse transcription well 508 can also
   include another set of further capture molecules which can have the specific

                                                89
   capability of capturing DNA molecules in the central well 512 produced during
   reverse transcription.
           Since, after the reverse transcription, target DNA does not remain at the
   beads of the chamber 512, transporting the solution into the waste container 514
 5 would reduce the amount of sample. For this purpose, the sample is now pumped
   from the central well 512 into the PCR well 510, and can dissolve the PCR salts
   within this sample, wherein the PCR buffer in the PCR well 510 can include
   polymerase, reporter molecules capable of forming complexes with the target
   polynucleotide, primer, and/or buffer. Alternatively, the reverse transcription buffer
10 contains capture molecules directed to the synthesised DNA-Strands and capturing
   these strands takes place the same way like the initial capturing of HIV nucleic acids.
   After this, the sample can be pumped back into the central well 512.
           However, the actual PCR amplification is then performed in the central well
   512. For this purpose, a PCR is performed in the central well 512 by performing a
15 temperature cycle, that is to say by repeating e.g., 40 times a procedure with 5s at 95
   'C and 1Os at 60 'C. In another embodiment a temperature cycle including 3 or more
   different temperatures, e.g., including 30 cycles of 20s at 95'C, 30s at 55 'C and 30
   seconds at 72'C, can be performed. However, other PCR cycling protocols can be
   performed in the central chamber, too.
20         In some embodiments, for adjusting the temperature in the central well 512
   two heating plates can be provided above and below the central well 512. In another
   embodiment, one of the two heating wells can be continuous and the other one can
   have a recess to allow for a subsequent optical detection.    In some embodiments,
   during the amplification the detection can take place as described above.
25         E.g., in a first embodiment, a competitive assay of capture molecules can be
   performed in the central well 512. Thus, in this embodiment, a first binding member
   such as beads are used for capturing the complexes each including a target molecule
   and a capture molecule, and a second binding member including an array of reporter
   specific capture molecules immobilized in the central well 512 is used for detection.
30 The competitive assay includes forming complexes of a subset of the amount of
   reporter compound with at least a subset of the amount of target nucleic acid, the

                                               90
   forming of these complexes inhibiting the capturing of the reporter compound by the
   array of reporter specific capture molecules immobilized in the central well 512. The
   reporter specific capture molecules immobilized in the central well 512 are capable
   of capturing at least a remaining subset of the amount of reporter compound not in
 5 complex with a target polynucleotide. By providing an array of different kinds of
   reporter specific capture molecules in the well 512 for detection, it is possible to
   distinguish between different types of the HI virus, for instance type 1 HIV and type
   2 HIV, and it can be even possible to distinguish between different subtypes of the
   HI virus.
10          In a second embodiment, it is possible to use the same binding member, e.g.,
   beads, which have already been used for the capturing procedure also for the
   detection. In this embodiment, a capture oligonucleotide being attached to the beads
   via an anchor group can hybridize with a complex of amplified target DNA, which
   itself can include a fluorescence label.
15          The captured reporter compounds or the captured target molecules can be
   detected by an optical detection for instance using the fluorescence label as described
   above. Particularly, an optical system having a light source (not shown) and a light
   detector (not shown) can be operated in a manner so as to measure the time
   dependence of the signal during the PCR, which allows deriving the viral load of
20 HIV. In other words, the time dependence of the fluorescence signal can be acquired
   and evaluated.
            In the following, referring to FIG. 20, a device 600 according to an
   exemplary embodiment will be explained.
            The embodiment of FIG. 20 is similar to the embodiments of FIG. 18, 19, so
25 that corresponding components are denoted with the same reference numerals. For
   the sake of simplicity and clarity, the channels and fluid ports are not denoted with
   reference numerals in FIG. 20. For corresponding explanation, reference is made to
   FIG. 18 and FIG. 19.
            FIG. 20 shows a window portion 602 related to the well 504 and a window
30 portion 604 related to the well 506 to enable for a meniscus detection and therefore
   an overflow detection as a basis for determining control signals for controlling

                                               91
   actuators acting on the wells 504, 506 and acting on the various fluid communication
   ports.
            The direction of the gravity vector g is indicated to show in which position
   the device 600 can be operated in some embodiments. In these embodiments, the
 5 operation of the device 600 is based on a combination of the gravitational force and
   liquid transportation forces provided via a pressure air connection 606, and a water
   supply connection 608. Furthermore, a vent connection 610 and a vent connection
   612 are provided for venting the corresponding fluidic structures.
            FIG. 20 schematically shows a portion 613 which can be, as an alternative to
10 the integral solution of FIG. 20, be provided as a separate module which can be
   combined with other modules to form a user-defined device in which the various
   modules are assembled together.
            In the following, referring to FIG. 21, a device 700 according to another
   exemplary embodiment will be explained.
15          The device 700 includes a rigid substrate 704 in which a first through hole
   709 and a second through hole 707 are formed. On a first main surface of the
   substrate 704, a first well 720 and a second well 708 are formed. On an opposing
   main surface of the substrate 704, a channel 706 is formed. The channel 706 is in
   fluid communication with the wells 720, 708 via the through holes 709, 707,
20 respectively.
            On an upper surface of the rigid substrate 704, a first flexible cover element
   708 is formed and adhered to the rigid substrate 704. On a lower surface of the
   substrate 704, a second cover element 705 is formed and laminated to the rigid
   substrate 704.
25         As can further be taken from FIG. 21, a first actuator member 701 and a
   second actuator member 702 are provided, the first actuator member 701 being
   adapted for pressing on a first portion of the cover element 720 to selectively close
   the through hole channel 709 or the entire well 720. In a corresponding manner, the
   second actuator element 702 can selectively open or close the well 708 and/or the
30 through hole 707. Thus, the flow of a fluid through channel 706 into one or both of
   the wells 720 or 708 can be controlled.

                                               92
           FIG. 22 represents a schematic illustration of an exemplary competitive assay
   according to the present invention. A labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule (shown
   as a grey sinuous line) is attached via a nucleic acid capture molecule (shown as a
   black sinuous line) on a binding member (here exemplified as a bead). The target
 5 nucleic acid to be detected is present in the sample in double-stranded form (the two
   strands are shown as light grey/black sinuous lines). Subjecting the sample to a
   denaturation step (of a cyclic amplification reaction) allows the strands of the target
   nucleic acid to dissociate and the reporter molecule to be released from the binding
   member. During the subsequent annealing step, a subset of the amount of reporter
10 molecule is allowed to form complexes with at least a subset of the amount of the
   target nucleic acid, wherein the forming of target nucleic acid/reporter molecule
   complexes inhibits the capability of the reporter molecule of being captured on the
   binding member due to a competition of the capture molecule and the nucleic acid
   target for binding the reporter molecule. The remaining subset of the amount of
15 reporter compound not in complex with a target nucleic acid is allowed to be re
   captured on the binding member. At this stage, a value indicative of the presence
   and/or amount of reporter compound captured on the binding member, and based
   thereon a value indicative of the presence and/or amount of the target nucleic acid, is
   determined by detecting a signal generated by the label included in the receptor
20 molecule. Consecutively or concomitantly to the annealing step, the extension step of
   the amplification reaction is performed. Then, the sample can be subjected to another
   amplification cycle.
           FIG. 23 shows the results of an exemplary competitive assay according to the
   present invention for determining the amount of human poliovirus 1 DNA
25 (designated "EV" for "enterovirus DNA") in a sample in comparison to a standard
   Taq-man assays performed with the same target. Two samples, each containing 104
   DNA copies were analyzed in parallel: the first sample (label "probe" in the diagram)
   was subjected to PCR amplification using a Rotor-Gene 6000 real-time rotary PCR
   analyzer (Corbett Life Sciences, Sydney, Australia) according to the manufactures
30 instructions. The PCR primer employed resulted in the amplification of a 150 bp
   DNA fragment. Detection of the fragment was accomplished by means of a so-called

                                                 93
   Taqman@ probe including a 6-carboxy-fluorescein (FAM) label at its 5' terminus and
   a 6-carboxytetramethylrhodamine-succinimidylester (TAMRA) label at its 3'
   terminus, respectively (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA). In total, 50
   PCR cycles were performed. The second sample ("competitive assay") additionally
 5 included a reporter molecule having the same nucleotide sequence as the Taqman@
   probe but includes a CY3 carbocyanine label (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA,
   USA) at its 3' terminus instead of FAM/TAMRA labels and was amplified using a
   device according to one embodiment of the present invention. The fluorescence
   signals obtained detected during amplification are shown in the diagram.
10          FIG. 24 illustrates the principle and shows the results of an exemplary array
   based competitive assay according to the present invention for determining the
   amount of a HIV gag/env PCR product in a sample. FIG. 24A schematically
   illustrates the principle of the assay (cf. also FIG. 22). Initially, no amplified PCR
   product, i.e., target nucleic acid is present. Labelled fluorescent nucleic acid reporter
15 molecules are bound to reporter-specific probes captured on the substrate of an array.
   If no PCR product is produced, the amount of reporter molecule hybridizing to the
   reporter-specific probes remains constant after each cycle of the amplification
   reaction and thus the fluorescence signal determined remains constant as well. If a
   PCR product is synthesized, the amount of reporter molecule hybridizing to the
20 reporter-specific probes decreases after each PCR cycle and, as a result, the
   fluorescence signal determined decreases accordingly. FIG. 24B shows the results of
   an array-based competitive assay for determining the amount of a 151 bp HIV 1
   gag/env PCR product. Different amounts of fragment (corresponding to 104-106
   copies) along with a reporter molecule ("anticdso29_5'CY3") including at its 5'
25 terminus a CY3 carbocyanine label (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA)
   were subjected to 36 cycles of PCR amplification. Two different types of probe
   molecules - a non-specific one ("ara_54986_NH2") and a reporter-specific one
   ("cdso29_NH2") - were captured on an array substrate in an arrangement as shown
   in FIG. 25A and disposed within the reaction chamber of the assay device employed.
30 The CT values ("threshold"; i.e., a measure for the onset of the exponential
   amplification phase, where the increase in fluorescence and thus DNA amount

                                               94
   occurs in a linear manner) were determined using the Iconoclust software (Clondiag
   Chip Technologies GmbH, Jena, Germany) and plotted versus the respective DNA
   concentrations employed to generate a calibration curve (FIG. 24C). In all samples
   employing the receptor-specific probe a progressive decrease in fluorescence
 5 intensity was observed as the number of PCR cycles increased. In contrast, in the
   sample using the non-specific probe no fluorescence was observed (FIG. 24B).
           FIG. 25 depicts the array employed in the assay shown in FIG. 24 at different
   stages of the PCR amplification. The arrangement of the different spots on the array
   substrate is schematically illustrated in FIG. 25A. The black circles denote spots
10 (four parallel samples), where the specific probe (cf. FIG. 24) was used for capturing
   the reporter molecules, whereas the white circles refer to spots (four parallel
   samples), where the non-specific probe was used for capturing the reporter
   molecules. The grey circles represent positive controls, where the fluorescent label
   was spotted on the array substrate. FIG. 25B shows photographs of the array
15 (corresponding to the 105 DNA copies-samples in FIG. 24B) that were taken after
   amplification cycles 1, 12, 18, and 21, respectively. In the samples captured on the
   array via the specific probe molecules a decrease in fluorescence signal intensity can
   be observed during the course of the PCR amplification.
           FIGS. 26A-D represent a schematic illustration of an exemplary embodiment
20 of the competitive method for the detection of polynucleotides according to the
   present invention. As shown in FIG. 26A, initially, no amplified PCR product, i.e.,
   target nucleic, acid is present. Labelled nucleic acid reporter molecules (shown as a
   black sinuous line and denoted as target/probe specific reporter) are bound to
   reporter-specific probes captured on the substrate of an array. The signal corresponds
25 to that of labelled internal control molecules (shown as light grey sinuous line) which
   are bound to internal control-specific probes captured on the substrate of an array. As
   shown in FIG. 26B, if the PCR enters into the early exponential phase the reporter
   molecules not only bind to reporter-specific probes captured on the substrate but also
   bind to the reporter-specific region of the PCR product. Thus, if a PCR product is
30 synthesized, the amount of reporter molecule hybridizing to the reporter-specific
   probes captured on the substrate decreases and, as a result, the signal determined

                                               95
   decreases accordingly. The signal decreases significantly when the PCR is in the
   exponential phase (see FIG. 26C). The signal on the reporter-specific probes
   captured on the substrate remains low when the PCR reaches the plateau phase (see
   FIG. 26D).
 5                 FIG. 27 shows the results of an exemplary embodiment of the
   competitive assay according to the present invention for determining the amount of
   HIV subtype B and HIV subtype 02 in a sample. In the experiment underlying FIG.
   27A, only HIV Subtype B was present in the sample. It can be seen that the signal
   corresponding to a labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule specific for HIV subtype
10 02  (HIV sub 02) remains constant whereas the signal corresponding to a labelled
   nucleic acid reporter molecule specific for HIV subtype B (HIV sub B) decreases
   significantly after about 13 cycles of the PCR (cf. FIG. 26). In the experiment
   underlying FIG. 27B, only HIV Subtype 02 was present in the sample. It can be seen
   that the signal corresponding to a labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule specific for
15 HIV subtype B (HIV sub B) remains constant whereas the signal corresponding to a
   labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule specific for HIV subtype 02 (HIV sub 02)
   decreases significantly after about 25 cycles of the PCR (cf. FIG. 26).
                   FIG. 28 shows the results of an exemplary embodiment of the
   competitive assay according to the present invention for determining different
20 amounts of HIV subtype B in a sample. If 106 copies of HIV are present in the
   sample the signal corresponding to a labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule specific
   for HIV subtype B (HIV sub B) decreases significantly after about 13 cycles of the
   PCR (see FIG. 28A). If only 104 copies of HIV are present in the sample the signal
   corresponding to a labelled nucleic acid reporter molecule specific for HIV subtype
25 B (HIV sub B) decreases significantly after about 19 cycles of the PCR (see FIG.
   28B). It is apparent from Figure 28 that the amount of PCR cycles required before a
   decrease in the signal is detectable allows conclusions as to the amount of target
   nucleic acid present in the sample to be analyzed.
           The invention is further described by the following examples, which are
30 solely for the purpose of illustrating specific embodiments of this invention, and are
   not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

                                              96
           EXAMPLES
           Example 1: Competitive assay for determining human poliovirus 1 DNA
           The principle of the competitive assay performed is schematically shown in
   FIG. 22. DNA of human poliovirus 1 isolate TCDCO1-861 (GenBank accession
 5 number AF538843) cloned into a suitable expression vector (pCR@2.1-TOPO@,
   Clontech, Inc. Palo Alto, CA, USA) was used as a DNA template (herein also
   designated "EV" (enterovirus) DNA).
           Two samples, each containing 104 DNA copies were analyzed in parallel: the
   first sample was subjected to PCR amplification using a Rotor-Gene 6000 real-time
10 rotary PCR analyzer (Corbett Life Sciences, Sydney, Australia) according to the
   manufactures instructions.
   The second sample additionally included a reporter molecule having the same
   nucleotide sequence as the Taqman@ probe but includes a CY3 carbocyanine label
   (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA) at its 3' terminus instead of
15 FAM/TAMRA labels and was amplified using directly in a reaction chamber of an
   assay device, in which the array was disposed on the heatable base surface.
           The following PCR primers were used:
   forward PCR primer:
   pr-forEV_02:           5'-CAAACCAGTGATTGGCCTGTCGTAACG-3'
20 (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 492-518 of AF538843)
   reverse PCR primer:
   pr-revEV_01:           5'-TTCACCGGATGGCCAATCCAATTCG-3'
   (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 617-641 of AF538843)
           Thus, PCR resulted in the amplification of a 150 bp DNA fragment.
25 PCR samples contained 200 nM (final concentration) each of the PCR primers as
   well as the EnzymMix@ and the reaction buffer of the Ultrasense RT-PCR Kit
   (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA) according to manufactures
   instructions.
           Furthermore, for detecting the amplified PCR fragment using the Rotor-Gene
30 6000 real-time rotary PCR analyzer the according PCR sample contained 100 nM
   (final concentration) of a dual-labelled so-called Taqman@ probe including a 6-

                                               97
   carboxy-fluorescein (FAM) label at its 5' terminus (i.e., the fluorophor) and a 6
   carboxy-tetramethyl-rhodamine-succinimidylester (TAMRA) label at its 3' terminus
   (i.e., the quencher), respectively (both labels were purchased from Invitrogen
   Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA). The probe has the following sequence:
 5 HPEV2_001:              FAM-5'-ACCGACTACTTTGGGTGTCCGTGTTT-3'
   TAMRA
   (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 536-561 of AF538843)
             For performing the competitive analysis, the PCR sample further contained
   20 nM (final concentration) of a reporter molecule having the same sequence but a
10 different label as the Taqman@ probe, namely a CY3 carbocyanine label at its 3'
   terminus (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA):
   EV2_02CY3:              5'-ACCGACTACTTTGGGTGTCCGTGTTT-3'-CY3
   (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 536-561 of AF538843)
             Real-time PCR was performed according to the following temperature
15 profile: 2 minutes at 94 'C, and subsequently 50 cycles of 5 seconds at 94 'C, 30
   seconds at 62 'C, and 30 seconds at 72 'C.
             During PCR fluorescence signals for both reactions are shown in Fig. 23.
             Example 2: Array-based competitive assay for determining HIVI gag/env
20 DNA
             The principle of the competitive assay performed is schematically shown in
   FIG. 24A. DNA of a synthetic HIV 1 gag/env fusion construct (EMBL accession
   number A06258) cloned into the EcoRI endonuclease restriction site of the
   expression vector pCR@2. 1-TOPO@ (Clontech, Inc. Palo Alto, CA, USA) was used
25 as a DNA template.
             Furthermore, the following PCR primers were used:
   forward PCR primer:
   cdia:            5'-TGAAGGGTACTAGTAGTTCCTGCTATGTC-3'
   (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 214-232 of A06258)
30 reverse PCR primer:
   cdis:            5'-ATCAAGCAGCCATGCAAATGTT-3'

                                               98
   (corresponding to the nucleotide positions 384-405 of A06258)
             Thus, PCR resulted in the amplification of a 151 bp DNA fragment having
   the following sequence: 5'-ATC AAG CAG CCA TGC AAA TGT TAA AAG AGA
   CCA TCA ATG AGG AAG CTG CAG AAT GGG ATA GAT TGC ATC CAG
 5 TCC ATG GAG GGC CTA TTG CAC CAG GCC AGA TGA GAG AAC CAA
   GGG GAA GTG ACA TAG CAG GAA CTA CTA GTA CCC TTC A-3'.
              PCR was performed directly in the reaction chamber of the assay device, in
   which the array was disposed on the heatable base surface. PCR samples contained
   200 nM (final concentration) each of the PCR primers as well as the EnzymMix@
10 and the reaction buffer of the Ultrasense RT-PCR Kit (Invitrogen Corporation,
   Carlsbad, CA, USA). For generating a calibration curve, different amounts of DNA
   template (in 1 pl) were used corresponding to 0, 104, 105, and 106 DNA copies (each
   performed in quadruplicate).
             For performing the competitive analysis, the PCR sample further contained
15 10 nM (final concentration) of a reporter molecule having a CY3 carbocyanine label
   at its 5' terminus (Invitrogen Corporation, Carlsbad, CA, USA):
   anticdso29_5'CY3: CY3-5'-TCCCATTCTGCAGCTTCCTCATTGATGGT-3'
   (complementary to the cdso29_NH2 probe molecule described below)
             PCR was performed according to the following temperature profile: 30
20 seconds at 95 'C, and subsequently 36 cycles of 5 seconds at 95 'C, 30 seconds at 50
   'C, and 30 seconds at 72 'C.
             The interaction of the reporter molecule with the two types of probes was
   determined in each cycle at the end of the annealing step using an optical detection
   system positioned opposite to the top surface of the assay device and the Iconoclust
25 software package (Clondiag Chip Technologies GmbH, Jena, Germany). The
   exposure time during data acquisition was 2.5 s.
             Two different types of probe molecules were captured on the array substrate
   in an arrangement as shown in FIG. 25A. Fluorescent labels alone were used as
   positive controls. The following probes were employed:
30 non-specific probe:
             ara_54986_NH2:         5'-ACCAGCTTTGAACCCAACAC-3'

                                                99
   receptor-specific probe:
            cdso29_NH2:            5'-ACCATCAATGAGGAAGCTGCAGAATGGGA-3'
            The CT values ("thresholds"), as a measure for the onset of the exponential
   amplification phase, where the increase in fluorescence and thus DNA amount
 5 occurs in a linear manner, were determined using the Iconoclust software (Clondiag
   Chip Technologies GmbH, Jena, Germany) and plotted versus the respective DNA
   concentrations employed to generate a calibration curve (FIG. 24C). The mean CT
   values determined were as follows: 22.0 in the 104 DNA copies-samples; 18.5 in the
   105 DNA copies-samples; and 15.0 in the 106 DNA copies-samples.
10          In all samples employing the receptor-specific probe a progressive decrease
   in fluorescence intensity was observed as the number of PCR cycles increased. In
   contrast, in the sample using the non-specific probe no fluorescence was observed
   (FIG. 24B).
            The arrangement of the different spots on the array substrate is schematically
15 illustrated in FIG. 25A. The black circles denote spots (four parallel samples), where
   the specific probe (cf. FIG. 24) was used for capturing the reporter molecules,
   whereas the white circles refer to spots (four parallel samples), where the non
   specific probe was used for capturing the reporter molecules. The grey circles
   represent positive controls, where the fluorescent label was spotted on the array
20 substrate.
            FIG. 25B shows photographs of the array (corresponding to the 105 DNA
   copies-samples in FIG. 24B) that taken after amplification cycles 1, 12, 18, and 21,
   respectively. In the samples captured on the array via the specific probe molecules a
   progressive decrease in fluorescence signal intensity can be observed during the
25 course of the PCR amplification that, in turn, corresponds to a concomitant increase
   of the amount of PCR product amplified that can be quantified by comparison with a
   corresponding calibration curve.
            It should be noted that the term "including" does not exclude other elements
   or features and the "a" or "an" does not exclude a plurality. Also elements described
30 in association with different embodiments can be combined.
            It should also be noted that reference signs in the claims shall not be

                                              100
  construed as limiting the scope of the claims
          Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
  used in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
  stated features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the
5 presence or addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group
  thereof.

                                                 101
   The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A device comprising a reaction chamber which comprises a first binding
   member adapted for capturing target compounds and a second binding member
 5 adapted for capturing reporter compounds indicative of the presence and/or amount
   of the target compounds, wherein the first binding member comprises synthetic
   particles, beads or a porous matrix configured to bind complexes of a capture
   compound and a target compound and wherein the second binding member is a
   microarray of reporter specific capture compounds arranged on a surface.
10
   2.       The device according to claim 1, wherein the beads are magnetic beads or
   latex beads.
   3.       The device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first binding member
15 comprises beads being configured to bind complexes including a capture compound
   and a target compound by binding an anchor group of the capture compound.
   4.       The device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least 10
   different species, at least 20 different species, or at least 50 different species of
20 reporter specific capture compounds are arranged on the surface of the second
   binding member.
   5.      The device according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising at least
   one filter, optionally at least one frit, arranged at the reaction chamber and adapted
25 for preventing the first binding member from being removed from the reaction
   chamber.
   6.        The device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   reaction chamber has a volume in a range from 1 ptL to 1 mL, optionally in a range
30 from 20 p.L to 300 ptL.

                                               102
   7.        The device according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   substrate has a window portion adjacent the reaction chamber and being transparent
   for electromagnetic radiation in a range of wavelengths from 1 nm to 10 tm,
   optionally in a range of wavelengths from 400 nm to 800 nm, to thereby allow for an
 5 electromagnetic radiation-based detection of a meniscus of a liquid flowing through
   the structure.
   8.        The device according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising
   a flexible cover element at least partially covering the substrate.
10
   9.      Use of a device according to any one of claims I to 8 in a method,
   comprising:
           binding a target polynucleotide to the first binding member and releasing the
   target polynucleotide from the first binding member prior to the step of amplifying,
15 wherein the first binding member is located in the reaction chamber,
           amplifying the target polynucleotide in an amplification mixture to form
   amplicons, the amplification being performed in the presence of a reporter
   compound, at least a subset of the amplicons being capable of forming complexes
   with the reporter compound,
20         forming complexes of a subset of the amount of reporter compound with at
   least a subset of the amplicons,
           binding reporter compound not complexed with the amplicons to the second
   binding member immobilized with respect to a surface, wherein the second binding
   member is located in the reaction chamber; and
25         detecting a remaining subset of the reporter compound, wherein the members
   of the remaining subset are not complexed with the amplicons and wherein the
   detecting is performed with the remaining subset of reporter compound bound to the
   second binding member.
30 10.     The use according to claim 9, further comprising determining a value
   indicative of a number of amplicons present after the amplifying based on the

                                              103
   detected remaining subset of reporter compound; optionally further comprising
   determining a value indicative of the number target polynucleotides present in the
   amplification mixture based on the value indicative of the number of amplicons.
 5 11.     The use according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein:
   the step of amplifying further comprises amplifying a control polynucleotide present
   in the amplification mixture to form control amplicons, the amplification being
   performed in the presence of a control reporter compound, at least a subset of the
   control amplicons being capable of forming complexes with the control reporter
10 compound,
           forming complexes of a subset of the amount of control reporter compound
   with at least a subset of the control amplicons;
           detecting a remaining subset of the control reporter compound, the members
   of the remaining subset not complexed with the control amplicons; and
15 determining the value indicative of the number of amplicons present after the
   amplifying based on the detected remaining subset of reporter compound and the
   detected remaining subset of control reporter compound,
   wherein optionally the reporter compound and the control reporter compound each
   comprise an optical label and the steps of detecting comprise detecting the optical
20 label.
   12.     The use according to any one of claims 9 to 11, further comprising binding
   control reporter compound not complexed with the control amplicons to the second
   binding member immobilized with respect to a surface, and wherein the detecting the
25 remaining subset of control reporter compound is performed with the remaining
   subset of control reporter bound to the second binding member, wherein optionally
   the steps of detecting the reporter compound and the control reporter compound is
   performed in the structure for accommodating liquids.
30 13.     The use according to any one of claims 9 to 12 further comprising repeating
   the steps of amplifying, forming complexes, and detecting a number N times,

                                               104
   wherein N is at least 2 and the repeated step(s) of amplifying comprise amplifying
   the amplicons optionally further comprising, for each of at least some of the N
   repetitions, determining a value indicative of the number of amplicons based on the
   detected remaining subset of reporter compound, further optionally comprising, for
 5 at least one of the N repetitions, determining a value indicative of the number target
   polynucleotides present in the amplification mixture based on the value indicative of
   the number of amplicons.
   14.      The use according to any one of claims 9 to 13 wherein the target
10 polynucleotide is derived from a pathogen and the use comprises lysing the pathogen
   to release the target polynucleotide, wherein optionally the pathogen is a virus,
   wherein optionally the virus is HIV.
   15.      The use according to any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the reporter
15 compound comprises an optically detectable label, and the detectability of the
   optically detectable label is essentially the same when the reporter compound is
   complexed to the amplicons and when the reporter compound is not complexed,
   wherein optionally the label is fluorescent and a quantum yield of the fluorescent
   label when the reporter compound is complexed with the amplicons is within 10% of
20 a quantum yield of the label when the reporter compound is not complexed with the
   amplicons, or wherein optionally the control reporter compound comprises an
   optically detectable label and, the detectability of the optically detectable label is
   essentially the same when the control reporter compound is complexed to the control
   amplicons and when the reporter compound is not complexed, wherein optionally the
25 label of the control reporter compound is fluorescent and a quantum yield of the
   fluorescent label when the control reporter compound is complexed with the control
   amplicons is within 10% of a quantum yield of the label when the control reporter
   compound is not complexed

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   M   W

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
