                                                - 20
Abstract
An intravascular blood pump having a drive section (11), a catheter (14) fastened to the drive
section proximally and a pump section (12) fastened to the drive section distally possesses an
electric motor (21) whose motor shaft (25) is mounted in the drive section (11) with two radial
sliding bearings (27, 31) and an axial sliding bearing (40). During operation, purge fluid is
conveyed through the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing (40) and further through the
radial sliding bearing (31) at the distal end of the drive section (11). The purge fluid is highly
viscous, for example 20% glucose solution.
Fig 2

           2/6
      C~CD
        CC?)
               C
        coc
         0)Y
      CDC
                CJ
   cNcm
          C\Ji
5:~l

                                                -1
                                   Intravascular blood pump
Field of the Invention
[0001]     This invention relates to an intravascular blood pump for supporting blood circulation
in human or optionally also animal bodies. It is inserted percutaneously for example into the
femoral artery and guided through the body's vascular system in order, for example, to support
or replace the pumping action in the heart. The invention likewise relates to a system
comprising such an intravascular blood pump, and to a method for supporting blood circulation
while employing such an intravascular blood pump.
Background of the Invention
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     The requirements to be met by such blood pumps with regard to duration of service
and small size are continually increasing. The smallest pumps of this kind have an outer
diameter of about 4 mm. A further reduction of the outer diameter is limited, inter alia, by the
machine elements employed within the pump, which are not available in arbitrarily small sizes.
Furthermore, the machine elements are subjected to enormous loads, since these pumps
work at high rotational speeds of several 10,000 turns per minute on account of the small
package size and the substantial volume flows to be conveyed in human blood circulation.
While blood pumps of this kind were originally intended only for short-term heart support, they
are increasingly also being used for long-term treatment over several days up to weeks.
[0004]     From EP 0 961 621 B1 there is known an intravascular blood pump that possesses
a drive section, a catheter attached at the proximal end of the drive section and having lines
extending therethrough for the power supply to the drive section, and a pump section fastened
at the distal end of the drive section. The drive section comprises a motor housing having an
electric motor disposed therein, with the motor shaft of the electric motor distally protruding out
of the drive section and into the pump section. The pump section in turn comprises a tubular
pump housing having an impeller rotating therein which is seated on the end of the motor
shaft protruding out of the motor housing. The motor shaft is mounted in the motor housing in
exactly two bearings which are maximally removed from each other in order to guarantee a
true, exactly centered guidance of the impeller within the pump housing. While a radial ball

                                                   -2
bearing is used in practice for the bearing at the proximal end of the motor housing, the
impeller-side bearing is moreover configured as a shaft seal, in order to prevent blood from
entering the motor housing. In practice, the entry of blood into the motor housing is
furthermore counteracted by a purge fluid being passed through the motor housing and the
impeller-side bearing configured as a shaft seal. This is done at a purge-fluid pressure that is
higher than the blood pressure present.
[0005]      The intravascular blood pump normally conveys the blood through the pump housing
and past the motor housing from distal to proximal. A reverse conveying direction is also
possible. In both cases the impeller, when conveying the blood, produces axial forces that are
transferred to the bearings via the motor shaft and taken up by the radial ball bearing.
[0006]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
[0007]      According to a first aspect, the invention provides an intravascular blood pump,
comprising
            -  a drive section which has a motor housing having a proximal end and a distal end
and an electric motor disposed in the motor housing, with the electric motor possessing a
motor shaft which protrudes at one end out of the distal end of the motor housing and is
mounted radially in the motor housing both at the proximal end and at the distal end of the
motor housing, wherein a radial bearing of the motor shaft at the proximal end and/or at the
distal end of the motor housing is a radial sliding bearing, and wherein the motor shaft is
mounted in the motor housing axially by means of at least one axial sliding bearing or radial
axial sliding bearing:
            - a catheter which is connected to the proximal end of the motor housing and along
which there extend lines for power supply to the electric motor, and
            - a pump section having a tubular pump housing which is fastened to the distal end
of the motor housing, and an impeller which is seated on the end of the motor shaft protruding
out of the distal end of the motor housing and is rotatable in the pump housing,
            wherein one or both of:
            - one or more surfaces forming a bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial
axial sliding bearing are made of ceramic, and
            - in the at least one radial sliding bearing, one of the surfaces forming a bearing gap

                                                 -3
is a ceramic surface and the corresponding other one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap
is an amorphous carbon coating (DLC).
[0008]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0009]      Advantageously, a purge-fluid line which is so disposed that fluid fed through the
purge-fluid line flows through the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing and the radial
bearing located at the distal end of the motor housing, or the bearing gap of the radial-axial
sliding bearing.
[0010]      According to another aspect, the invention provides a system comprising the
intravascular blood pump defined above and a purge-fluid source for supplying the purge-fluid
line with a fluid whose viscosity at 370C lies 2 1.2 mPa - s.
[0011]      According to another aspect, the invention provides a method for supporting blood
circulation while employing the intravascular blood pump defined above, wherein the fluid fed
to the purge-fluid line has a viscosity lying   1.2 mPa - s at 370C.
[0012]      In a preferred aspect the invention provides an intravascular blood pump, comprising
       a drive section which has a motor housing having a proximal end and a distal end and
an electric motor disposed in the motor housing, with the electric motor possessing a motor
shaft which protrudes at one end out of the distal end of the motor housing and is mounted
radially in the motor housing both at the proximal end and at the distal end of the motor
housing, the motor shaft being mounted in the motor housing axially by at least one of an axial
sliding bearing and a radial-axial sliding bearing:
       a catheter which is connected to the proximal end of the motor housing and along which
there extend lines for power supply to the electric motor, and
       a pump section having a tubular pump housing which is fastened to the distal end of the
motor housing, and an impeller which is seated on the end of the motor shaft protruding out of
the distal end of the motor housing and is rotatable in the pump housing,
       wherein the motor has a static motor section and a rotating motor section. wherein the
rotating motor section is formed as a solenoid, which strives magnetically to be situated in a
rest position in the center of the static motor section, wherein the solenoid is arranged pulled
out of this rest position.

                                                 -4
[0013]     Advantageously, the axial forces of the motor shaft thus no longer need to be taken
up by the radial ball bearing disposed at the proximal end of the motor housing. The radial ball
bearing can hence be constructed accordingly smaller or be replaced by another compact
radial bearing, in particular a radial sliding bearing. This in turn makes it possible to develop
blood pumps having a further reduced outer diameter.
[0014]     At the same time, advantageously this measure prolongs the service life of the blood
pump, because the radial bearing is relieved on account of the reduced axial forces, which a
radial bearing is not primarily intended to take up anyway, so that it is subject to less wear.
[0015]     Alternatively, the invention can be integrated into existing package sizes in order to
increase service life and reduce the degree of complexity.
[0016]     The axial forces acting on the motor shaft are contrary to the conveying direction.
When the blood pump is arranged for conveying alternatively in the proximal direction and in
the distal direction, axial forces act on the motor shaft in the distal direction in one case and in
the proximal direction in the other case. In such a blood pump, two axial sliding bearings or
axial-radial sliding bearings are accordingly to be provided in the motor housing for axially
mounting the motor shaft. The axial sliding bearing can be formed in a simple manner by a
disk disposed on the motor shaft and supported against a circumferential shoulder of the
motor housing. In the case of an axial-radial sliding bearing, the disk possesses a convex or
concave, in particular spherical, bearing surface. Hereinafter the term "axial sliding bearing"
will be employed synonymously for both variants, the axial sliding bearing and the radial-axial
sliding bearing.
[0017]     Preferably, the motor housing itself is filled with a suitable fluid which forms a
lubricating film in the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing. Alternatively, purge fluid fed
through a purge-fluid feed line and flowing through the radial bearing located at the distal end
of the motor housing can also flow through the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing and in
this manner be used for forming the lubricating film in the bearing gap. To ensure in this case
that the purge fluid reaches the distal radial bearing at a pressure higher than the blood
pressure present, there can be provided, in at least one of the surfaces forming the bearing
gap of the axial sliding bearing, a channel which penetrates the bearing gap from radially
outward to radially inward, so that the purge fluid can flow through this channel to the distal
radial bearing. This channel need not necessarily lie in a bearing-gap surface, but can also be
realized as a separate channel or as a bore. However, providing the channel in one of the
bearing-gap surfaces has the advantage that the lubricating film in the bearing gap heats up

                                                       -5
less, because a part of the lubricating film is continually being replaced by purge fluid flowing
in later. Preferably, the channel is located in the stationary bearing-gap surface in order to
minimize the radial conveying capacity.
[0018]       Preferably, the axial sliding bearing is configured as a hydrodynamic sliding bearing.
In contrast to a simple sliding bearing, in a hydrodynamic sliding bearing a pressure is built up
in the lubricating film through the pumping action of the two surfaces moved relative to each
other. For this purpose, according to a preferred variant, the bearing gap can be configured as
a converging gap in some regions in the circumferential direction of the axial sliding bearing.
In this connection the moved surface is preferably even, that is, the opposing stationary
surface of the bearing gap has ramps which converge toward the moved surface in the
rotation direction of the moved surface. Thus there is formed in the bearing gap a wedge into
which the lubricating fluid is transported, thereby building up a pressure causing the moved
surface to move away from the static surface. In this state, sliding friction prevails on a fluid
film, said friction being virtually wear-free. Since the blood pump normally conveys
continuously at high rotational speed, the blood pump has especially low wear and is
accordingly suitable for long-term applications.
[0019]       In the simplest embodiment, the moved disk can be configured as a wobble disk and
form the convergent gap or wedge simply through the slant.
[0020]       Instead of the bearing gap having converging surface zones, one of the surfaces
forming the bearing gap can have one or more spirally disposed grooves. In this case, the
lubricating fluid is pumped along the grooves toward the center of the bearing through the
relative motion of the two surfaces, and builds up a pressure there which in turn leads to the
two surfaces moving away from each other. In the spiral-groove bearing variant, it is preferred
to provide the spirally disposed grooves in the moved surface, because this makes the
conveying of lubricating fluid into the grooves more effective.
[0021]       Should the axial thrust  (Fax rotor) of the pumping apparatus be greater than the load
carrying capacity of the axial sliding bearing for design reasons, the axial thrust of the
pumping apparatus can be compensated partly through a suitable axial arrangement of the
rotating magnet in the motor. According to the invention, the rotating magnet behaves like a
solenoid which strives magnetically to be situated in the center of the static motor section.
When it is now pulled out of this rest position, a magnetic force arises in the reverse direction
(Fax magnet). This force can be used in the direction of the axial thrust (Fax rotor) for further axial
stabilization or in the opposite direction and relieve the axial sliding bearing. Further, the

                                                 -6
resultant force on the axial bearing can be adjusted by varying the pressure of the purge fluid
(cf. Fig. 2).
[0022]      It is further preferred when the surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding
bearing are made of ceramic, preferably zirconium oxide. Surfaces made of ceramic have high
strength and low wear. In particular, the total distal end of the motor housing, including the
surface for the axial sliding bearing, can be manufactured from a one-piece ceramic part in a
simple manner, so that the total manufacturing costs of the blood pump are low.
[0023]      The lead wires of the electric motor received in the motor housing are normally
guided around the proximally situated radial bearing on the outside and electroconductively
connected, in particular soldered, to the power supply lines extending within the catheter.
According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, the lead wires of the electric motor are
now guided through the outer ring of the radial bearing or advantageously within one or more
radially outer slots of the outer ring. This saves overall space in the radial direction, which is in
turn positive for the development of blood pumps having a small outer diameter. It is thus for
example possible to obtain space for a pressure measurement and its implementation at the
proximal motor end.
[0024]      The lead wires can advantageously be soldered to the power supply lines on a
surface of the motor housing proximally of the proximally situated radial bearing. This is
advantageous because electrically connecting the lead wires of the electric motor to the power
supply lines directly can cause difficulties on account of the small thickness of the lead wires
and the relatively great thickness of the power supply lines. When the relevant surface of the
electric motor is made of a plastic or of ceramic, as to be explained hereinafter, the soldering
point region can be coated conductively, for example with copper, before soldering, and the
soldering of the lead wires and of the supply lines is respectively effected separately in this
region.
[0025]      Preferably, the relevant part of the motor housing is subsequently embedded into
plastic, with the soldering points and preferably also the motor windings being embedded as
well, so that the soldering points are electrically isolated, on the one hand, and mechanically
protected, on the other hand.
[0026]      According to a preferred development of the invention, the radial bearings for the
motor shaft are also respectively configured as sliding bearings at the proximal end and at the
distal end of the motor housing. Since these radial bearings serve substantially only for

                                                   -7
guiding the shaft in an exactly centered manner and accordingly only low radial forces are to
be taken up, they can be configured as simple sliding bearings. A radial sliding bearing
requires considerably less overall space in the radial direction than a rolling-element bearing
with its inner and outer rings. This again has a positive effect on the possibilities of
manufacturing blood pumps having a small outer diameter.
[0027]      In particular, it is preferred to make the radial sliding bearing located at the proximal
end of the motor housing of ceramic, with the ceramic bearing lying directly against the
circumferential surface of the motor shaft. The radial bearing located at the distal end of the
motor housing can also be configured in a corresponding manner. The surface of the motor
shaft opposing the ceramic surface, which together with the ceramic surface forms the bearing
gap of the radial sliding bearing, is preferably coated with an amorphous carbon coating (DLC
=  diamond-like carbon or diamond-like coating). DLC layers are especially wear-resistant and
low-friction. They are only a few micrometers thick and can be produced for example by
chemical vapor deposition (CVD) or physical vapor deposition (PVD). Alternatively, the shaft
can be made of a breakproof ceramic.
[0028]      During operation, the blood pump is attached to a purge-fluid source, and fluid
passed into the motor housing through the purge-fluid line. The purge fluid then flows through
the axial sliding bearing and further through the distal radial bearing. In the axial sliding
bearing it forms the lubricating film in the bearing gap. The pressure at which the purge fluid
flows through the motor housing has an adverse effect, however, on the width of the bearing
gap. For the higher the purge-fluid pressure is, the smaller the bearing-gap width becomes
and the thinner the lubricating film between the sliding surfaces is. The thinner the lubricating
film is, the greater in turn the motor current for driving the electric motor is that is necessary
for overcoming the frictional forces. This is unfavorable for the control of the blood pump,
because the current conveying volume is normally established by stored characteristic curves
solely on the basis of the motor current and the rotational speed (both known quantities).
When the purge-fluid pressure additionally affects the motor current, a further influence
quantity would have to be taken into consideration. In view of the fact that the same blood
pump type can be operated for a great variety of applications with different purge-fluid
pressures between 300 and 1400 mmHg, it is important to avoid a dependence of motor
current on purge-fluid pressure.
[0029]      This can actually be obtained when there is chosen as a purge fluid a fluid having a
viscosity that is considerably higher than the viscosity of water (q = 0.75 mPa - s at 370C). For
with a highly viscous purge fluid, the fluid film is maintained even at high pressures and the

                                                     -8
friction of the axial sliding bearing is accordingly independent of the purge-fluid pressure. It
has turned out that the axial sliding bearing can be configured as a simple sliding bearing, and
does not have to be configured as a hydrodynamic sliding bearing, with a purge fluid whose
viscosity at 370C amounts to approx. 1.2 mPa - s or higher. Good results were achieved for
example with a       20% glucose solution between ceramic surfaces made of zirconium oxide.
[0030]      Advantageously, it is the object of the present invention to propose measures for
how to further reduce the package size of such intravascular blood pumps and increase their
service life.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0031]      Hereinafter the invention will be explained by way of example with reference to the
accompanying drawings. Therein are shown:
[0032]      Figure 1        a schematic representation of the insertion of a blood pump before the
left ventricle, with positioning of its inflow cannula within the left ventricle,
[0033]      Figure 2        a schematic longitudinal section of an exemplary embodiment of the
blood pump,
[0034]      Figure 3        an enlarged representation of the detail Ill from Figure 2,
[0035]      Figure 4        a variant of the detail Ill from Figure 3,
[0036]      Figure 5        an enlarged representation of the detail IV from Figure 2,
[0037]      Figures 6A and 6B            an axial sliding bearing surface in plan view and as a
development according to a first exemplary embodiment,
[0038]      Figure 7        an axial sliding bearing surface in cross section according to a second
exemplary embodiment, and
[0039]      Figure 8        an axial sliding bearing surface in plan view according to a third
exemplary embodiment.

                                               -9
Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
[0040]     Figure 1 represents the employment of a blood pump 10 for supporting the left
ventricle. The blood pump has a motor section 11 and a pump section 12 which are disposed
coaxially one behind the other and result in a rod-shaped construction form. The pump section
is extended by a flexible suction hose 13 which has, at its end and/or in its side wall, openings
for the entry of blood to the pump. The end of the blood pump 10 facing away from the suction
hose 13 is connected to a catheter 14, which has been inserted through the aortic arch 15a
and the aorta 16. The blood pump 10 is so placed that it lies primarily in the ascending aorta
15b, whereas the pump section 12 with the suction hose 13 lies substantially in the left
ventricle 17. The aortic valve 18 comes to lie, in the closed state, against the outer side of the
pump housing or of the suction hose 13. The blood pump 10 with the suction hose 13 in front
is advanced into the represented position by advancing the catheter 14, optionally employing a
guide wire. In so doing, the suction hose 13 passes the aortic valve 18 retrograde, so that
blood is sucked in through the suction hose 13 and pumped into the aorta 16. Thus far, the
blood pump corresponds to the blood pump known from EP 0 961 621 B1.
[0041]     The use of the blood pump is not restricted to the application represented in Figure
1, which merely involves a typical example of application. Thus, the pump can also be inserted
through other peripheral vessels, such as the subclavian artery, or also be placed in the right
heart.
[0042]     Figure 2 shows a preferred exemplary embodiment of the blood pump with the
motor section 11 and the pump section 12 firmly connected thereto. The motor section 11 has
an elongate housing 20 in which the electric motor 21 is housed. The stator 24 of the electric
motor 21 has, in the usual way, numerous circumferentially distributed windings as well as a
magnetic return path 28 in the longitudinal direction. It is firmly connected to the motor
housing. The stator 24 surrounds the rotor 26 connected to the motor shaft 25 and consisting
of permanent magnets magnetized in the active direction. The motor shaft 25 extends over the
total length of the motor housing 20 and protrudes distally out of the latter. There, it carries an
impeller 34 with vanes 36 projecting therefrom or pump vanes which rotate within a tubular
pump housing 32 which is in turn firmly connected to the motor housing 20.
[0043]     The proximal end of the motor housing 20 has the flexible catheter 14 sealingly
attached thereto. Through the catheter 14 there extend electrical cables 23 for power supply to
and control of the electric motor 21. There additionally extends through the catheter 14 a
purge-fluid line 29 which penetrates the proximal end wall 22 of the motor housing 20. Purge

                                                 -10
fluid is fed through the purge-fluid line 29 into the interior of the motor housing 20 and exits
through the end face 30 at the distal end of the motor housing. The purging pressure is so
chosen that it is higher than the blood pressure present, in order to thereby prevent blood from
penetrating into the motor housing, being between 300 and 1400 mmHg depending on the
case of application.
[0044]      Upon a rotation of the impeller 34, blood is sucked n through the end-face suction
opening 37 of the pump housing 32 and conveyed backward within the pump housing 32 in
the axial direction. Through outlet openings 38 in the pump housing 32 the blood flows out of
the pump section 12 and further along the motor housing 20. This ensures that the heat
produced in the drive is carried off. It is also possible to operate the pump section with the
reverse conveying direction, with blood being sucked in along the motor housing 20 and
exiting from the opening 37.
[0045]      The motor shaft 25 is mounted in radial bearings 27 and 31 at the proximal end of
the motor housing, on the one hand, and at the distal end of the motor housing, on the other
hand. The radial bearings are in this exemplary embodiment respectively configured as simple
sliding bearings. Furthermore, the motor shaft 25 is also mounted axially in the motor housing
20. The axial bearing 40 is likewise configured as a sliding bearing. The axial sliding bearing
40 will be explained more precisely hereinafter with reference to Figure 3. It serves for taking
up axial forces of the motor shaft 25 which act in the distal direction when the impeller 34
conveys from distal to proximal. Should the blood pump be used for conveying blood also or
only in the reverse direction, a corresponding axial sliding bearing 40 is (also/only) to be
provided at the proximal end of the motor housing 20 in a corresponding manner.
[0046]      The blood pump according to Fig. 2 can alternatively be employed without purge
fluid for short-term use over a few hours. In this case the sliding bearings are lubricated once,
and the distal sliding bearing 31 is moreover furnished with a radial lip seal in order to prevent
the entry of blood. A purge-fluid line can then advantageously be omitted altogether.
[0047]      Figure 3 shows the detail III from Figure 2 in greater detail. There can be seen in
particular the radial sliding bearing 31 and the axial sliding bearing 40. The bearing gap of the
radial sliding bearing 31 is formed, on the one hand, by the circumferential surface of the
motor shaft 25, which is DLC-coated, and, on the other hand, by the surface of the through
bore in the distal end wall 30 of the motor housing 20, which is manufactured as a ceramic
part, for example of zirconium oxide.

                                                 - 11
[0048]      The bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing 40 is formed, on the one hand, by the
axially interior surface 41 of the end wall 30 and a surface 42 opposing it. This opposing
surface 42 is part of a ceramic disk 44 which is seated on the motor shaft 25 distally of the
rotor 26 and rotates with the rotor 26. A channel 43 in the bearing-gap surface 41 of the end
wall 30 ensures that purge fluid can flow through between the bearing-gap surfaces 41 and 42
of the axial sliding bearing 40 to the radial sliding bearing 31 and exit from the motor housing
20 distally. The purge fluid is chosen to have a viscosity of at least 1.2 mPa - s at 370C. A
suitable fluid has turned out to be 20% glucose solution, for example. The axial sliding bearing
40 represented in Figure 3 is a normal sliding bearing. Hydrostatic sliding-bearing variants will
be described hereinafter with reference to Figures 6A/B, 7 and 8. Unlike the representation,
the axial gap of the axial sliding bearing 40 is very small, being a few pm.
[0049]      Instead of the axial sliding bearing 40 and radial sliding bearing 31, there can also
be realized a combined radial-axial sliding bearing 46 having a concave bearing shell in which
a convex bearing surface runs. Such a variant is represented in Figure 4 by a spherical sliding
bearing 46. The bearing-gap surface 41 is of spherically concave design, and the opposing
bearing-gap surface 42 is of corresponding spherically convex design. The channel 43 again
lies in the stationary bearing-gap surface 41 of the end wall 30. Alternatively, the stationary
bearing-gap surface 41 of the end wall 30 can be of convex configuration and the opposing
bearing-gap surface 42 of concave configuration. The surfaces 42, 43 can also be conical
instead of spherical. Preferably, a corresponding radial-axial sliding bearing is provided on
both sides of the motor housing 20 in order not to permit any radial offset upon axial travel of
the shaft 25. The advantage of a combined axial-radial sliding bearing lies in the higher
loading capacity. However, a disadvantage is the greater frictional diameter.
[0050]      Figure 5 shows the radial bearing 27 at the distal end of the motor housing 20. Here,
too, the motor shaft 25 is furnished with a DLC coating and runs in a bearing bush which
forms an integral part of the proximal end wall 22, again made of ceramic, of the motor
housing 20. Thus far, the radial sliding bearing 27 corresponds to the radial sliding bearing 31.
[0051]      Distributed over the circumference of the end wall 22 there are provided three axially
extending slots 50 spaced at 1200, of which only one is to be seen in Figure 2. Through these
slots 50, thin lead wires 51 lead to the windings of the stator 24. The lead wires 51 are
soldered on the proximal side of the end wall 20, the soldering point 52 having been previously
made conductive with a local copper coating. At the same soldering point 52 the end of the
power supply line 23 is also soldered. The connection of the wires of the stator windings with
the power supply lines can be effected with all conventional joining methods (soldering,

                                                -12
welding, clamping, laser welding, gap welding, contact bonding, etc.). Subsequently the end
wall 22 including the lead wires 51 and the soldering points 52 is encased in a plastic material,
with the motor windings of the stator also being encased at the same time. This can be
effected by vacuum casting by way of example.
[0052]     The previously described blood pump does without radial ball bearings for mounting
the motor shaft 25, which are hard to mount and possess a minimum size of 3 mm. This
makes it possible to manufacture pumps having even smaller outer diameters of for example
only 3 mm. Moreover, the service life of this blood pump is considerably increased compared
with those having radial ball bearings on account of lower wear. Run times > 30 days can thus
be realized with low wear. The latter is extremely significant, since the mounting and the true
running of the impeller are vital for low blood damage.
[0053]     Figure 6A shows in plan view the surface 41 of the distal end wall 30 of the motor
housing 20 according to an alternative exemplary embodiment. Figure 6B shows a
development of the surface 41 from Figure 6A. The surface 41 itself is stationary. The
direction indicated by the arrow indicates in which direction the opposing surface 42 of the
sliding bearing 40 moves. This then also corresponds to the direction in which the lubricating
film moves within the bearing gap relative to the stationary surface 41. Accordingly, the
surface 41 possesses ramps disposed one behind the other which form converging gaps
together with the opposing moved surface 42, which is even. This causes a hydrodynamic
pressure to build up in the lubricating film, which ensures that the surfaces forming the bearing
gap remain at a distance.
[0054]     A configuration of the rotating surface with the ramp-like structures according to
Figures 6A and 6B is advantageous for the efficiency of the axial sliding bearing, but leads to
an elevated radial conveying effect in the bearing gap which is opposed to the conveying
direction of the purge fluid. Figure 7 represents the simplest form of a ramp-like realization of
the convergent gap in the form of a wobble disk. Here, the disk 44 is simply installed on a
slant or minimally beveled. The slant typically amounts to 1 to 5 pm.
[0055]     Figure 8 shows another variant for a hydrodynamically acting surface of the axial
sliding bearing 40. This involves a so-called spiral groove bearing, which is preferably formed
on the moving surface of the bearing gap, i.e. accordingly on the surface 42 of the ceramic
disk 44. In this case, several grooves 45 are spirally disposed in the surface 42. The grooves
45 are indicated only schematically in Figure 8. When the ceramic disk 44 rotates in the
direction indicated by the arrow in Figure 8, the lubricating film is conveyed radially inward

                                               -13
along the grooves 45 and builds up a pressure there which in turn ensures that the surfaces
forming the bearing gap are kept at a distance apart.
[0056]    This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
2013220350, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.

                                                  -14
Claims
1.          An intravascular blood pump, comprising
            - a drive section which has a motor housing having a proximal end and a distal end
and an electric motor disposed in the motor housing, with the electric motor possessing a
motor shaft which protrudes at one end out of the distal end of the motor housing and is
mounted radially in the motor housing both at the proximal end and at the distal end of the
motor housing, wherein a radial bearing of the motor shaft at the proximal end and/or at the
distal end of the motor housing is a radial sliding bearing, and wherein the motor shaft is
mounted in the motor housing axially by means of at least one axial sliding bearing or radial
axial sliding bearing:
            - a catheter which is connected to the proximal end of the motor housing and along
which there extend lines for power supply to the electric motor, and
            - a pump section having a tubular pump housing which is fastened to the distal end
of the motor housing, and an impeller which is seated on the end of the motor shaft protruding
out of the distal end of the motor housing and is rotatable in the pump housing,
            wherein one or both of:
            - one or more surfaces forming a bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial
axial sliding bearing are made of ceramic, and
            - in the at least one radial sliding bearing, one of the surfaces forming a bearing gap
is a ceramic surface and the corresponding other one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap
is an amorphous carbon coating (DLC).
2.          An intravascular blood pump according to claim 1, wherein the axial sliding bearing
or radial-axial sliding bearing comprises a disk disposed on the motor shaft and supported
against a circumferential shoulder of the motor housing.
3.          An intravascular blood pump according to claim 2, wherein the disk is ceramic disk
4.          An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 3, comprising a
purge-fluid line which is so disposed that fluid fed through the purge-fluid line flows through
the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing and the radial bearing located at the distal end of
the motor housing, or the bearing gap of the radial-axial sliding bearing.
5.          An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least
one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding

                                              -15
bearing has a channel which penetrates the bearing gap from radially outward to radially
inward.
6.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing is configured as a
converging gap in some regions in the circumferential direction.
7.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 6, wherein a moved surface of the
surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing is
even.
8.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein one of
the surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing
has one or more spirally disposed grooves.
9.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 8, wherein a moved surface of the
surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing has
the one or more spirally disposed groove.
10.        An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
ceramic is zirconium oxide.
11.        An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
radial bearing situated at the proximal end of the motor housing has an outer ring, and lead
wires of the electric motor extend through the outer ring or within a radially outwardly located
slot of the outer ring.
12.        An intravascular blood pump according to claim 11, wherein the lead wires of the
electric motor and the lines extending along the catheter are connected electroconductively on
a surface located proximally of the radial bearing (27) situated at the proximal end of the motor
housing.
13.        An intravascular blood pump according to claim 12, wherein the motor housing is at
least partly a cast plastic housing, and wherein the solderings are cast in as well.

                                               -16
14.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the
total distal end of the motor housing, including a surface of the at least one of an axial sliding
bearing and a radial-axial sliding bearing, are manufactured from a one-piece ceramic part.
15.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the at
least one of an axial sliding bearing and radial-axial sliding bearing is formed by an axially
interior surface of an end wall of the motor housing and an opposing surface in the form of a
ceramic disc seated on the motor shaft distally of the rotor and rotating with the rotor.
16.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein, in the
at least one radial sliding bearing, the ceramic surface is formed by an end wall of the motor
housing and the DLC-coated surface is formed by a circumferential surface of the motor shaft.
17.         The intravascular blood pump according to claim 16, wherein the ceramic surface is
formed by a through bore in the distal end wall of the motor housing.
18.         The intravascular blood pump according to claim 16, wherein the ceramic surface is
formed by a bearing bush which forms an integral part of the proximal end wall of the motor
housing.
19.         A system comprising the intravascular blood pump according to claim 4 and a
purge-fluid source for supplying the purge-fluid line with a fluid whose viscosity at 370C lies
1.2 mPa - s.
20.         A method for supporting blood circulation while employing the intravascular blood
pump according to claim 4, wherein the fluid fed to the purge-fluid line has a viscosity lying
1.2 mPa - s at 370 C.
21.         A method according to claim 20, wherein the purge fluid is a     20% glucose solution.
22.         An intravascular blood pump, comprising
       a drive section which has a motor housing having a proximal end and a distal end and
an electric motor disposed in the motor housing, with the electric motor possessing a motor
shaft which protrudes at one end out of the distal end of the motor housing and is mounted
radially in the motor housing both at the proximal end and at the distal end of the motor
housing, the motor shaft being mounted in the motor housing axially by at least one of an axial
sliding bearing and a radial-axial sliding bearing:

                                                -17
       a catheter which is connected to the proximal end of the motor housing and along which
there extend lines for power supply to the electric motor, and
       a pump section having a tubular pump housing which is fastened to the distal end of the
motor housing, and an impeller which is seated on the end of the motor shaft protruding out of
the distal end of the motor housing and is rotatable in the pump housing,
       wherein the motor has a static motor section and a rotating motor section. wherein the
rotating motor section is formed as a solenoid, which strives magnetically to be situated in a
rest position in the center of the static motor section, wherein the solenoid is arranged pulled
out of this rest position.
23.        An intravascular blood pump according to claim 22, wherein the axial sliding bearing
or radial-axial sliding bearing comprises a disk disposed on the motor shaft and supported
against a circumferential shoulder of the motor housing.
24.        An intravascular blood pump according to either of claims 22 and 23, comprising a
purge-fluid line which is so disposed that fluid fed through the purge-fluid line flows through
the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing and the radial bearing located at the distal end of
the motor housing, or the bearing gap of the radial-axial sliding bearing.
25.        An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein at
least one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial
sliding bearing has a channel which penetrates the bearing gap from radially outward to
radially inward.
26.        An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the
bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing is configured as a
converging gap in some regions in the circumferential direction.
27.        An intravascular blood pump according to claim 26, wherein a moved surface of the
surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing is
even.
28.        An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein one of
the surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing
has one or more spirally disposed grooves.

                                               -18
29.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 28, wherein a moved surface of the
surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing has
the spirally disposed groove(s).
30.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 29, wherein the
surfaces forming the bearing gap of the axial sliding bearing or radial-axial sliding bearing are
made of ceramic.
31.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 30, wherein the
radial bearing situated at the proximal end of the motor housing has an outer ring, and lead
wires of the electric motor extend through the outer ring or within a radially outwardly located
slot of the outer ring.
32.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 31, wherein the lead wires of the
electric motor and the lines extending along the catheter are connected electroconductively on
a surface located proximally of the radial bearing situated at the proximal end of the motor
housing.
33.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 32, wherein the motor housing is at
least partly a cast plastic housing, and wherein the solderings are cast in as well.
34.         An intravascular blood pump according to any one of claims 22 to 30, wherein at
least one of the radial bearings of the motor shaft is configured as a radial sliding bearing at
the proximal end and at the distal end of the motor housing.
35.         An intravascular blood pump according to claim 34, wherein, in the at least one
radial sliding bearing, one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap is a ceramic surface and
the corresponding other one of the surfaces forming the bearing gap is an amorphous carbon
coating (DLC).
36.         A system comprising the intravascular blood pump according to claim 24 and a
purge-fluid source for supplying the purge-fluid line with a fluid whose viscosity at 370C lies
1.2 mPa - s.
37.         A method for supporting blood circulation while employing the intravascular blood
pump according to claim 24, wherein the fluid fed to the purge-fluid line has a viscosity lying
1.2 mPa - s at 370 C.

                                     -19
38. A method according to claim 37, wherein the purge fluid is a > 20% glucose solution.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
