ABSTRACT
                A protective cap having a first cap and a second cap that are removably
coupled together for use in short-term and long-term antimicrobial treatment of
needleless connectors and access ports of an infusion system. The instant invention
further provides a protective cap having a first cap and a second cap that each coupled
to a different surface of a component of an infusion system, such as a syringe. The
instant invention further provides a strip containing a plurality of disposable protective
caps.

        218
0y
   A-4A
            00Y

   NEEDLELESS CONNECTOR AND ACCESS PORT DISINFECTION
           CLEANER AND ANTIMICROBIAL PROTECTION CAP
CROSS REFERENCE APPLICATIONS
[0001]           The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
no. 2014216567 which is a national phase application of PCT/US2014/015617 filed 10 February
2014 which in turn claims priority to US 13/766,540 filed 13 February 2013. The entire contents
of each of these applications is herein incorporated by reference.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001A]          Catheter-related bloodstream infections are caused by bacteria/fungi in patients
with intravascular catheters. These infections are an important cause of illness and excess medical
costs, as approximately 80,000 catheter-related bloodstream infections occur in U.S. intensive
care units each year. In addition to the monetary costs, these infections are associated with
anywhere from 2,400 to 20,000 deaths per year.
[0002]           Guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention describe various
ways to limit catheter-related bloodstream infections in hospital, outpatient and home care
settings. The guidelines address issues such as hand hygiene, catheter site care and admixture
preparation. Despite these guidelines, catheter-related bloodstream infections continue to plague
our healthcare system.
[0003]           Protective caps incorporating various disinfectants and/or antimicrobial agents are
one approach that has been implemented to prevent these infections at needleless connection
points. While these caps are effective for long-term protection against pathogens, long-term
exposure to the antimicrobial agent or disinfectant can cause damage to the needleless connection
or access point of a medical device. In some instances, the antimicrobial agent is suspended in an
alcohol solvent. The alcohol solvent used in the protective cap has been shown to cause device
failure in many connector type devices.        To prevent this damage, some protective caps are
designed to permit the alcohol-base to evaporate from the protective cap. However, once the
alcohol solvent has evaporated, the effectiveness of the protective cap is diminished.
[0004]           Therefore, there is a need for an effective and inexpensive way to reduce the
number of catheter-related infections for needleless connectors and access ports. Such methods
and systems are disclosed herein.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]           In some implementations,       a protective cap is provided for antiseptically
maintaining    a   patient   fluid line   access   valve   (i.e. access   valve)   or  a   needleless
                                             1

connector. In some instances, a protective cap is provided having a first cap that is
removable coupled to a second cap, wherein the first cap has a first opening
comprising a cavity in which is disposed a first pad. The first cap further comprises a
coupling feature for receiving the second cap.
[0006]          The second cap further includes a second opening having a cavity in
which is disposed a second pad. The second opening further includes a compatible
coupling feature whereby to receive or otherwise interconnect with the coupling
feature of the first cap.    The first and second caps each contain an antimicrobial
composition that is configured to clean a needleless connector and/or an access port of
an infusion system, such as an intravenous catheter assembly or intravenous tubing.
In some implementations, the first opening of the first cap is temporarily sealed with a
lid to prevent contamination and evaporation of the antimicrobial composition stored
within the first pad. Further, in some instances the connection between the coupling
features to the first and second caps prevents contamination of the second pad prior to
use.
[0007]          Some implementations of the present invention further include a
protective cap system having a first and second cap that are independently coupled to
different surfaces of an infusion device, such as a syringe. The first and second caps
are independently removed from the syringe and applied to various surfaces to achieve
short-term and long-term antimicrobial protection to various components of an
infusion system.
[0008]          Some implementations of the present invention further include a strip
having a plurality of holes or openings for temporarily storing and organizing a
plurality of protective caps.   The protective caps comprise a first cap and a second
cap, wherein each cap is configured to provide short-term and/or long-term
antimicrobial protection to various components of an infusion system.           In some
instances, the openings of the first and second caps are sealed to a strip, rather than
being inserted through an opening or hole.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]          In order that the manner in which the above-recited and other features
and advantages of the invention are obtained will be readily understood, a more
particular description of the invention briefly described above will be rendered by
reference to specific embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended
                                        2

drawings. These drawings depict only typical embodiments of the invention and are
not therefore to be considered to limit the scope of the invention.
[0010]          Figure 1, shown in parts A and B, shows a protective cap device having
a first cap threadedly coupled to a second cap in accordance with a representative
embodiment of the present invention.
[0011]          Figure 2, shown in parts A and B, shows a protective cap device having
a first cap unthreaded from a second cap in accordance in accordance with a
representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0012]          Figure 3 shows a cross-section view of a protective cap device having a
first cap mechanically coupled to a second cap in accordance with a representative
embodiment of the present invention.
[0013]          Figure 4, shown in parts A and B, shows a needleless device fitted with
a protective cap device having a first cap coupled to a nozzle of the needleless device,
and a second cap stored on plunger of the needleless device in accordance with a
representative embodiment of the present invention.
[0014]          Figure 5, shown in parts A and B, shows perspective and detailed
views of a plurality of protective caps arranged on a strip for conveniently providing
multiple caps for use in protecting a needleless connector in accordance with a
representative embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0015]          The presently preferred embodiment of the present invention will be
best understood by reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numbers indicate
identical or functionally similar elements.     It will be readily understood that the
components of the present invention, as generally described and illustrated in the
figures herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different
configurations.   Thus, the following more detailed description, as represented in the
figures, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed, but is merely
representative of presently preferred embodiments of the invention.
[0016]          Referring now to Figures IA and 1B, a protective cap 10 is shown.
Generally, protective cap 10 comprises a first cap 20 that is coupled to a second cap
40. Each cap 20 and 40 is configured to receive or otherwise couple to a needleless
connector or access port of a component of an infusion system. In some instances,
first cap 20 is configured to receive a needleless connector without being attached to
                                        3

the needleless connector long-term. For example, first cap 20 may be used to quickly
clean a needleless connector just prior to the needleless connector being coupled to a
second medical device. In other instances, second cap 40 is configured to be attached
to a needleless connector for long-term protection.            For example, in some
embodiments second cap 40 comprises a set of threads or other feature for securely
receiving and retaining a portion of a needleless connector.
[0017]           In some embodiments, first and second caps 20 and 40 are separated
and applied to a needleless connector or access port to prevent pathogens from
colonizing thereon. Further, in some embodiments first cap 20 is temporarily applied
to a needleless connector or access port to kill any pathogens present thereon. The
first cap 20 is then removed from the needleless connector or access port and the port
is connected to, or accessed with a component of an infusion system. Upon removal
of the component of the infusion system, first cap 20 is removed from second cap 40,
and second cap 40 is fixedly coupled to the needleless connector or access port for
long-term protection.
[0018]           Protective cap 10 may comprise any material that is compatible for use
in an infusion system. For example, in some embodiments protective cap comprises
any of a number of types of plastic materials such as polycarbonate, polypropylene,
polyethylene, glycol-modified polyethylene       terephthalate, acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene or any other moldable plastic material used in medical devices.
[0019]           In some embodiments, first cap 20 and second cap 40 are selectively
coupled to form protective cap 10. For example, in some embodiments first cap 20
comprises a set of threads 22 that is configured to interlock with a set of mating
threads 42 on second cap 40. In some instances, first cap 20 comprises a post 24 that
supports threads 22 in a configuration that permits an opening 46 of second cap 40 to
receive post 24 and threads 22. In some instances, mating threads 42 comprises a set
of female threads that are formed into an inner surface 44 of second opening 46.
Other embodiments include a cavity (not shown) on first cap 20 having internal
threads and a width sufficient to receive external threads (not shown) located on an
outer surface of second cap 40.
[0020]           First cap 20 further comprises a first opening 28 having a first pad 30
disposed therein. First pad 30 generally comprises an absorbent material, such as a
sponge or other non-woven material.       In some instances, first pad 30 comprises an
                                        4

absorbent, woven material.        First pad 30 may be secured into first opening by
mechanical interference. Alternatively, first pad 30 may be secured into first opening
28 via a biocompatible adhesive.
[0021]           In some instances, first pad 30 further comprises a central, cylindrical
cutout 32 that is not directly, physically coupled to the inner surface of opening 28.
Rather, cutout 32 may be collapsed or compressed to provide a central hole or cavity
within first pad 30. For example, cutout 32 may be compressed by inserting a device
into opening 28, such as needleless connector or access port. In this way, a tip and
sides of the inserted device may be simultaneously contacted by first pad 30 without
disrupting the bond between first pad 30 and the inner surface of second opening 28.
[0022]           Second cap 40 further comprises a second pad 48 that is fixedly seated
into second opening 46. Second pad 48 generally comprises a woven or non-woven
absorbent material, such as a sponge.         In some embodiments, second pad 48 is
positioned within second opening 46 so that second pad 48 does not contact post 24
when first cap 20 is threadedly coupled to second cap 40.        In other embodiments,
second pad 48 is compressed within second opening 46 by post 24 when first cap 20 is
threadedly coupled to second cap 40. Upon separation of first and second caps 20 and
40, second pad 48 is uncompressed and expands such that second pad 48 contacts
and/or overlaps threads 42. This feature may be desirable for treating threads 42 with
an antimicrobial composition stored in second pad 48.
[0023]           First and second pads 30 and 48 may comprise an antimicrobial
composition that is effective in preventing growth and colonization of pathogens, and
that is safe for use in an infusion system. An antimicrobial composition in accordance
with the present invention generally comprises an antimicrobial or biocidal agent
effective against various forms and strains of bacteria which may cause infection
within a patient. The terms "biocidal agent" "antimicrobial agent" or "biocide," as
used herein refer to an agent that destroys, inhibits and/or prevents the propagation,
growth, colonization and multiplication of unwanted organisms. The term "organism"
includes, but is not limited to, microorganisms, bacteria, undulating bacteria,
spirochetes,    spores, spore-forming     organisms, gram-negative   organisms,    gram
positive organisms, yeasts, fungi, molds, viruses, aerobic organisms, anaerobic
organisms and mycobacteria.
                                         5

[0024]          Specific examples of such organisms include the fungi Aspergillus
niger, Aspergillus flavus,         Rhizopus    nigricans,     Cladosprorium herbarium,
Epidermophytonfloccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Histoplasma capsulatum,
and the like; bacteria such as Pseudomanas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Proteus
vulgaris, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermis, Streptococcus faecalis,
Klebsiella, Enterobacter aerogenes, Proteus mirabilis, other gram-negative bacteria
and other gram-positive bacteria, mycobactin and the like; and yeast such as
Saccharomcyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, and the like. Additionally, spores of
microorganisms, viruses and the like are organisms within the scope of the present
invention.
[0025]          Antimicrobial or biocide agents suitable for use in the present
invention include, but are not limited to phenol, quaternary ammonium, guanidine,
taurolidine, parachlorometaxylenol, silver sulfadiazine, silver oxide, silver nitrate,
pyridinium, benzalkonium chloride, cetrimide, benethonium chloride, cetylpyridinium
chloride, dequalinium acetate, dequalinium chloride, and chloroxylenol. Further, in
some embodiments a biocide agent comprises a microbial agent selected from
chlorhexidine base, chlorhexidine gluconate, chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine
hydrochloride,    chlorhexidine dihydrochloride,       dibromopropamidine,      halogenated
diphenylalkanes,         carbanilide,       salicylanilide,       tetrachlorosalicylanilide,
trichlorocarbanilide, and mixtures thereof.       Still further, in some embodiments a
biocide    agent    comprises    a   microbial   agent     selected   from     chlorhexidine
dihydrochloride,     chlorhexidine    gluconate,  chlorhexidine     acetate,   chlorhexidine
diacetate, triclosan, chloroxylenol, dequalinium chloride, benzethonium chloride,
benzalkonium chloride, and combinations thereof.
[0026]          In some embodiments first or second pads 30 and 48 comprise a liquid
antimicrobial composition.      In other embodiments, first or second pads 30 and 48
comprise     a   dehydrated   antimicrobial    composition,     wherein     the   dehydrated
antimicrobial composition is activated upon rehydration with a fluid, such as water,
alcohol, blood, or another liquid common to infusion therapies. In some instances, lid
50 provides a fluid tight seal for first opening 28, thereby preventing premature
evaporation of an antimicrobial composition stored in first pad 30. Further still, in
some instances interlocked threads 42 and 22 provide a fluid tight seal for second
                                         6

opening    46,   thereby  preventing    premature  evaporation   of an    antimicrobial
composition stored in second pad 48.
[0027]          In some embodiments, first pad 30 comprises a liquid antimicrobial
composition, wherein lid 50 prevents premature evaporation of the antimicrobial
agent prior to use. In other embodiments, second pad 48 comprises a dehydrated
antimicrobial composition, wherein the dehydrated antimicrobial composition is
activated upon rehydration with a fluid, such as water, alcohol, blood, or another
liquid common to infusion therapies.       In some instances, the dehydrated state of
second pad 48 prevents long-term exposure of the needleless connector to a liquid,
alcohol-based antimicrobial composition. Contact between a dehydrated composition
within second pad 48 and the surface of the needleless connector provides
antimicrobial protection without causing damage thereto.      As such, damage to the
needleless connector caused by a liquid, alcohol-based antimicrobial composition is
prevented. Further, the dehydrated state of the second pad 48 wicks or removes fluids
from the needleless connector, thereby preventing damage and/or colonization of
microbes on the needleless connector.         Once wicked into second pad 48, the
dehydrated antimicrobial agent is activated and microbes within the fluid are
neutralized.
[0028]          In some instances, first and second pads 30 and 48 each comprise an
identical antimicrobial composition. In other instances, first pad 30 comprises a first
antimicrobial composition, and second pad 48 comprises a second antimicrobial
composition, wherein the first and second antimicrobial compositions are different.
Thus, first cap 20 may be used to provide a first type of disinfection, and second cap
40 may be used to provide a second type of disinfection.
[0029]          Prior to use, first and second caps 20 and 40 are threadedly coupled
together and first opening 28 is sealed with a lid 50, such as a piece of foil, a thin
polymer membrane, a foil-backed piece of paper, or a polymer-backed piece of paper.
To use protective cap 10, a user may remove lid 50 to expose first pad 30 seated in
first opening 28. A user may insert an access valve or a needleless connector into first
opening 28 and into contact with first pad 30.        The access valve or needleless
connector is treated with the antimicrobial composition as the surfaces are contacted
with first pad 30.
                                        7

[0030]          Once the access valve or needleless connector is cleaned, it may be
connected to another component of an infusion system.           Upon disconnecting the
access valve or needleless connector, second cap 40 is removed or unthreaded from
first cap 20, as shown in Figures 2A and 2B.          Second cap 40 is attached to the
disconnected valve or connector to provide antimicrobial protection thereto during
long-term storage.
[0031]          For example, in some embodiments the access valve or needleless
connector comprises a set of threads that are compatibly received by the set of mating
threads 42 located on inner surface 44 of second cap 40. When second cap 40 is
threadedly connected to the valve or connector, second pad 48 contacts the valve or
connector to provide antimicrobial cleaning and protection. The threaded connection
between second cap 40 and the access valve or connector further prevents exposure of
the needleless connector to microbes or other contaminants.        In some instances, the
threaded connection prevents exposure to fluids which may leak from the valve or
connector.
[0032]          Referring now to Figure 3, first and second caps 20 and 40 may be
selectively coupled by any means. For example, in some embodiments post 24 of first
cap 20 comprises an annular ring 26 that snaps into an annular groove 45 that is
formed on inner surface 44 of second cap 40. The interaction between ring 26 and
groove 45 provide a mechanical connection that may be separated by pulling apart the
first and second caps 20 and 40. Ring 26 and groove 45 further provide a fluid tight
seal, thereby preventing evaporation of an antimicrobial composition stored in second
pad 48.
[0033]          In some instances, an access valve or needleless connection further
comprises an annular ring that is compatibly received by annular groove 45 when
second cap 40 is placed thereon. In other embodiments, second cap 40 is retained by
the access valve or needleless connection via mechanical interference or friction fit.
[0034]          In some embodiments, a protective cap comprising a set of individual
caps may be configured for attachment to a pre-filled syringe 100, as shown in Figures
4A and 4B. In some instances it is desirable to provide a syringe 100 that is pre-filled
with a desired liquid 102. In these instances, it is further desirable that the liquid 102
and the needleless connector or nozzle 104 remain free from pathogens before and
during use.
                                       8

[0035]         Accordingly, in some embodiments a first cap 120 is provided having a
receptacle 122 for receiving nozzle 104 of syringe 100. Prior to capping nozzle 104
with receptacle 122 of first cap 120, receptacle 122 is sterilized.       This prevents
contamination of nozzle 104 and fluid 102, as may be desired.           Sterilization of
receptacle 122 may be achieved by any known method in the art.
[0036]         First cap 120 further comprises a first opening 128 in which is seated a
first pad 130.   First pad 130 may comprises an antimicrobial composition that is
configured to clean an access port (not shown) intended to receive nozzle 104 of
syringe 100. First cap 120 may further include a lid 150 to protect first pad 130 and
prevent evaporation of the antimicrobial composition prior to use.
[0037]         The protective cap may further include a second cap 140 that is
removable coupled to a portion of syringe 100. For example, in some embodiments
cap 140 is coupled to the plunger 106 of syringe 100. Plunger 106 may comprise a
circular groove 107 that is configured to receive and temporarily store second cap 140.
In some embodiments, second cap 140 is threadedly secured to plunger 106. In other
embodiments, second cap 140 is coupled to plunger 106 via a friction fit.
[0038]         The connection between second cap 140 and syringe 100 prevents
evaporation and/or contamination of an antimicrobial agent stored in second cap 140.
For example, in some instances second cap 140 comprises a second pad 148
containing an antimicrobial composition. The connection between second cap 140
and syringe 100 provides a fluid tight seal for second pad 148.         The connection
between second cap 140 and syringe 100 further provides convenient placement of
second cap 140 for access by a user of the syringe.
[0039]         For example, in some embodiments a user of syringe 100 first removes
lid 150 from first cap 120 to expose first pad 130. First pad 130 is then used to clean
an access port of an infusion system. The access port is clean by inserting the access
portion within second opening 128 to contact first pad 130. First cap 120 is then
removed from nozzle 104. Nozzle 104 is then connected to the access port.
[0040]         In some instances, a desired volume of fluid 102 is injected into the
infusion system via an access port. Where the desired volume comprises the entire
contents of syringe 100, second cap 140 may be removed from plunger 106 following
injection of liquid 102, and connected to the access port to prevent subsequent
contamination thereof. Where the desired volume comprises only a portion of the
                                       9

contents of syringe 100, and where it is desirable to use the remaining contents of
syringe 100 at a later time, second cap 140 may be removed from plunger 106 and
coupled to nozzle 104 to prevent subsequent contamination thereof. Second cap 140
further prevents contamination of the remaining fluid 102. At the time in which it is
desirable to inject the remaining fluid 102 into the access port, second cap 140 is
removed from nozzle 104 and is used to clean the access port. The clean nozzle 104
is then inserted into the clean access port, and the remaining fluid is injected without
introducing microbes into the infusion system. In some embodiments, second cap 140
is then coupled to the access port to provide long-term antimicrobial protection.
[0041]          Referring now to Figures 5A and 5B, a plurality of protective caps 10
is provided on a strip 200 that is configured to be removable coupled to a medical
device, such as an IV stand 210. This configuration may be desirable for situations
where a needless connector 220 may require repeated cleanings over a period of use.
In some embodiments, strip 200 comprises a plurality of holes or openings 202
through which each cap is fitted. In some instances, each cap comprises a first cap 20
and a second cap 40, wherein strip 200 is inserted between the two caps.
[0042]          In some instances, cap 10 is removed from strip 200 by separating first
cap 20 from second cap 40. In other instances, cap 10 is removed from strip 200 by
stretching or biasing opening 202 via pushing or pulling cap 10. First and second caps
20 and 40 may be used to clean needleless connector 220, in accordance with the
teachings above.     Upon subsequent cleanings, the first and second caps of a first
protective cap are discarded and an additional protective cap is removed from strip
200 and used. An enlarged opening 206 may be provided to assist in coupling strip
200 to a desired medical device 210. In some embodiments, strip 200 is temporarily
secured to a medical device via an adhesive strip or other suitable means.
[0043]          The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without
departing from its structures, methods, or other essential characteristics as broadly
described herein and claimed hereinafter.       The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects only as illustrative, and not restrictive. The scope of the
invention is, therefore, indicated by the appended claims, rather than by the foregoing
description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of
the claims are to be embraced within their scope.
                                        10

CLAIMS
1.       A device for antiseptically maintaining a patient fluid line access valve, the device
comprising:
         a first cap having a first end and a second end, the first end comprising a first opening
having a first pad disposed therein, the second end comprising a first coupling feature for
removably fastening the first cap to a first end of an intermediary device; and
         a second cap having a distal end and a proximal end, the distal end comprising a
second opening and a second coupling feature, wherein the second opening comprises a
second pad disposed therein, wherein the second coupling feature removably couples the
second cap to a second end of the intermediary device.
2.       The device of claim 1, wherein the intermediary device comprises a syringe, wherein
the first end of the intermediary device comprises a spout of the syringe, wherein the second
end of the intermediary device comprises a base of a plunger of the syringe.
3.       The device of claim 1, wherein the second coupling feature comprises a set of threads
that is configured to receive a compatible set of threads on an access portion of a patient fluid
line access valve, such that when the compatible set of threads is threadedly coupled with the
second coupling feature, the second pad contacts the access portion of the patient fluid line
access valve.
4.       The device of claim 1, wherein the first opening receives and retains the first end of
the intermediary device by interference fit, and wherein the first opening is configured to
receive an access portion of a patient fluid line access valve.
5.       The device of claim 1, further comprising a removable lid covering the first opening.
6.       A device for antiseptically maintaining a patient fluid line access valve, the device
comprising:
         a syringe comprising a first end a second end;
                                                   11

         a first cap comprising a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the distal end of the
first cap comprises a first opening, wherein the first opening comprises a first pad disposed
therein, wherein the proximal end of the first cap comprises a first coupling feature, wherein
the first coupling feature is removably coupled with the first end of the syringe; and
         a second cap comprising a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the distal end of the
second cap comprises a second opening and a second coupling feature, wherein the second
opening comprises a second pad disposed therein, wherein the second coupling feature is
removably coupled with the second end of the syringe.
7.       The device of claim 6, where the first end of the syringe comprises a spout, wherein
the second end of the syringe comprises a base of a plunger.
8.       The device of claim 6, wherein the first cap comprises a removable lid, wherein the
removable lid covers the first opening.
9.       The device of claim 8, wherein the removable lid comprises at least one of a foil
lidding material and a polymer lidding material.
10.      The device of claim 4, wherein the first and second openings are configured to receive
an access portion of a patient fluid line access valve.
11.      The device of claim 6, wherein the second coupling feature comprises a set of threads,
wherein the second cap is threadedly secured to the plunger via the set of threads.
12.      The device of claim 11, wherein the set of threads is configured to receive a
compatible set of threads on an access portion of a patient fluid line access valve.
13.      The device of claim 6, wherein the second coupling feature comprises at least one of a
detent and an annular groove.
14.      The device of claim 6, further comprising a first antimicrobial solution applied to the
first pad and a second antimicrobial solution applied to the second pad.
                                                  12

15.     The device of claim 14, wherein the first antimicrobial solution comprises a wet
solution selected from at least one of a first antimicrobial agent from approximately 0.01% to
approximately 10.0% (v/v), and an alcohol from approximately 50% to approximately
99.99% (v/v), wherein the second antimicrobial solution comprises a dry antimicrobial
coating comprising a second antimicrobial agent.
16.     The device of claim 15, wherein the first and second antimicrobial agents are selected
from the group consisting of chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine gluconate, PVP-I,
Triclosan, PCMX, BEC, BAC, antibiotic, Octinidine, and suitable salts thereof.
17.     The device of claim 14, wherein the first antimicrobial solution comprises a wet,
water-based solution, comprising:
        a first antimicrobial agent from approximately 0.01% to approximately 10.0% (v/v);
        an alcohol solvent from approximately 1% to approximately 10% (v/v); and
water from approximately 90% to approximately 99% (v/v); and
        wherein the second antimicrobial solution comprises a dry antimicrobial coating
comprising a second antimicrobial agent.
18.     The device of claim 17, wherein the first and second antimicrobial agents are selected
from the group consisting of chlorhexidine acetate, chlorhexidine gluconate, PVP-I,
Triclosan, PCMX, BEC, BAC, antibiotic, Octinidine, and suitable salts thereof.
19.     The device of claim 6, wherein the first pad further comprises a central, cylindrical
cutout that compresses to provide a central cavity within the first pad when a device is
inserted into the first opening, wherein the central, cylindrical cutout does not provide the
central cavity when the first pad is uncompressed.
20.     A device for antiseptically maintaining a patient fluid line access valve, the device
comprising:
        a syringe comprising a first side and a second side;
                                                   13

         a first cap comprising a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the distal end of the
first cap comprises a first opening, wherein the first opening comprises a first pad disposed
therein, wherein the proximal end of the first cap comprises a first coupling feature, wherein
the first coupling feature is removably coupled with the first end of the syringe; and
         a second cap comprising a distal end and a proximal end, wherein the distal end of the
second cap comprises a second opening and a second coupling feature, wherein the second
opening comprises a second pad disposed therein, wherein the second coupling feature is
removably coupled with the second end of the syringe,
         wherein the first pad comprises an exterior surface that extends across the first
opening and a cylindrical cut extending into the exterior surface to divide the first pad into a
central, cylindrical cutout and a surrounding portion, wherein when the central, cylindrical
cutout is uncompressed, the exterior surfaces of the central, cylindrical cutout and the
surrounding portion form an even surface, and wherein when a device is inserted into the first
opening, the central, cylindrical cutout compresses to displace the exterior surface of the
central, cylindrical cutout from the exterior surface of the surrounding portion thereby
forming a central cavity within the first pad.
                                                 14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
