ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to stimulus responsive substrates and uses of the substrates.
Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a substrate comprising a stimulus
responsive polymer attached to the substrate.

                                             1
                        STIMULUS RESPONSIVE SUBSTRATES
PRIORITY CLAIM
[001]     This application claims priority to Australian provisional patent application
number 20139031128 filed on 2 April 2013, the contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference. This application is a divisional application of Australian
Patent Application 2014246657, the entire contents of which are also to be taken as
incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD
[002]     The present disclosure relates to stimulus responsive substrates and the use of
stimulus responsive substrates.
BACKGROUND
[003]     Materials that respond to changes in their environment have applications in
many different fields. Such materials are often referred to as being "stimulus
responsive". Considerable effort is being put into the developments of new materials
with such properties.
[004]     For example, materials that respond to changes in their environment often have
utility in the fields of sensing and/or detection. Whilst such materials can be used for
sensing generally, one emerging field is the development of materials that can be used
for sensing in biological systems, such as for use in diagnosis or prognosis.
[005]     Materials that respond to changes in their environment may also be used to
modify that environment. Whilst there are a variety of applications, it has become
apparent that such materials could, for example, be used to deliver agents under specific
conditions. For example, materials that respond to changes in a biological setting could
be used to deliver therapeutic agents under specific conditions.
[006]     Wound management and/or treatment provide an example of the potential uses
of materials that can respond to changes in the environment. Infection of wounds is a
significant medical problem, and there is a significant need to enable early detection of
infection andlor to determine whether treatment for infection is actually required. A

                                             2
variety of changes are produced in response to infection, such as changes in pH and/or
temperature. Materials that have the ability to respond to such changes could be used to
determine whether infection of a wound has occurred or not.
[007]     In addition, such materials could also potentially be used to treat an infection,
by assisting in the release of agents such as antibiotics in response to signals indicative
of the presence of bacterial infection.
[008]     The development of materials that have the capacity to respond to changes in
their environment would therefore provide advantages in many fields of use, including
in the fields of sensing and/or delivery of therapeutic agents. The present disclosure
relates to the development of substrates that are stimulus responsive.
SUMMARY
[009]     The present disclosure relates to substrates that are stimulus responsive and
uses of such substrates.
[0010]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a substrate comprising a
stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate.
[0011]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a material comprising a
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate.
[0012]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a sensor comprising a
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate.
[0013]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an optical fibre
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the
substrate.
[0014]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a cell culture vessel
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the
substrate.

                                              3
[0015]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a bandage comprising a
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate.
[0016]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a wound dressing or
bandage comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to
the substrate.
[0017]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an implantable article
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the
substrate.
[0018]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing a
parameter, the method comprising using a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive
polymer attached to the substrate to sense the parameter.
[0019]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of delivering
a releasable agent to a site, the method comprising:
         providing to the site a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer
         attached to the substrate and a releasable agent; and
         releasing the releasable agent from the substrate in response to a stimulus,
         thereby delivering the releasable agent to the site.
[0020]      Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a therapeutic
composition comprising a porous substrate comprising: (i) a stimulus responsive
polymer attached to the porous substrate; and (ii) a therapeutic agent loaded onto the
porous substrate.
[0021]      Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of therapy,
the method comprising exposing a subject to a therapeutic composition comprising a
porous substrate comprising: (i) a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the porous
substrate; and (ii) a therapeutic agent loaded onto the porous substrate.
[0022]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide use of a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer in the preparation of a medicament.

                                              4
[0023]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of producing
a stimulus responsive material, the method comprising:
          functionalising a surface of a substrate; and
          forming a polymer on the functionalised surface, wherein the polymer
          comprises a stimulus responsive property.
[0024]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an article for delivering
a therapeutic agent and sensing a parameter, the article comprising a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate and a releasable
therapeutic agent.
[0025]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a drug delivery and
sensing device, the device comprising a silicon substrate comprising a stimulus
responsive polymer attached to the silicon substrate and a releasable drug.
[0026]    Other embodiments are disclosed herein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0027]    Certain embodiments are illustrated by the following figures. It is to be
understood that the following description is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting with respect to the description.
[0028]    Figure 1 shows a schematic of poly(N-isopropylacrylamide)           (pNIPAM)
grafting onto a porous silicon (pSi) surface. Three different pathways were investigated.
Path A: the porous silicon samples were thermally oxidised at 600'C for I h, followed
by    silanisation    with   4%     of   3-(2-bromoisobutyramido)propyl(triethoxy)silane
(BIBAPTES) in toluene and the surface initiated - atom transfer radical polymerisation
(Si-ATRP) polymerisation process of NIPAM performed at 25'C for 10 min. Path B:
samples are oxidised by ozone for 30 min, the silanisation and the polymerisation
process were identical to path A. Path C: hydrosilylation of the undecylenic alcohol for
3 h at 120 C was performed on the freshly etched samples, then the surface was reacted
with 2-bromoisobutyl bromide, followed by NIPAM polymerisation at 25            C for 10
min.

                                             5
[0029]   Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of a porous silicon substrate coated
with a stimulus responsive polymer (top) and a photograph of the porous silicon
substrate before and after coating with the polymer (bottom). The change in the colour
of the porous silicon substrate indicates the surface has been covered with the polymer
(> 100 nm).
[0030]   Figure 3 shows a typical X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of a
porous silicon substrate coated with a 400 nm thick film of poly(2-diethylaminoethyl
methacrylate) (pDEAEMA) by plasma polymerisation. The elements (oxygen, nitrogen,
carbon) characteristic for the polymer are detected, whereas the underlying silicon
substrate is not detected due to attenuation of the Si signal by the pDEAEMA film. This
shows that the polymer was successfully coated onto the porous silicon substrate.
[0031]   Figure 4 shows a side-on view of a porous silicon substrate coated with
pDEAEMA by plasma polymerisation. The image was taken by scanning electron
microscopy. The polymer thickness in this figure is 400 nm. It shows that the polymer is
successfully coated over the porous silicon layer, which supports the XPS data.
[0032]   Figure 5 shows a time-lapse graph demonstrating the change in the effective
optical thickness (EOT) of porous silicon, coated with pDEAEMA, in response to
changes in pH of 2.6 and 9.6. The pronounced and reproducible change in the EOT
upon addition of low and high pH solutions clearly demonstrates the switchable nature
of the sensor device.
[0033]   Figure 6 shows time-lapse graph showing the change in the EOT of porous
silicon, coated with pDEAEMA, in response to changes in pH from 6.0 to 2.6 as
indicated in the graph. The results show the sensor has a detection limit as small as 0.2
pH units.
[0034]   Figure 7 shows time-lapse EOT measurements of porous silicon functionalised
with pDEAEMA under different pH solutions. The results show a pronounced change in
EOT between buffers of pH 7.0-5.0, pH 7.0-4.0 and pH 7.0-6.0. The magnitude of
change in the EOT was dependant on the pH demonstrating that quantitative detection
of pH changes is possible.

                                             6
[0035]   Figure 8 shows the increase in EOT in response to change in pH from pH 7.0
to 4.0, or pH 7.0 to 5.0 or pH 7.0 to 6.0. Porous silicon samples were coated with
pDEAEMA by plasma polymerisation at 2 W to a thickness of 100 or 400 nm in Panel
A and at 2 W or 5 W to a thickness of 100 nm in Panel B. The results show that a range
of plasma polymerisation conditions can be used for the preparation of the pH sensor
for quantitative sensing.
[0036]   Figure 9 shows the results of a pH sensing experiment on flat silicon. The
sensor device in this experiment consists of flat silicon coated with pDEAEMA. The
coating gives an interference pattern, which can be monitored interference reflectance
spectroscopy. The graph shows that the wavelength of the interference pattern
reproducibly increases or decreases as the pH of the solution is increased or decreased.
This type of sensor can also be used to measure quantifiable changes in pH of the
solution (or other types of environment).
[0037]   Figure 10 shows a pH sensor embedded in a wound dressing scaffold. A
photograph of a porous silicon substrate connected to a porous PCL scaffold, by
thermally annealing the two materials together at 55'C, is shown at the top. The porous
nature of the scaffold makes it possible to still use the sensor to measure quantifiable
changes in pH of the solution (or other types of environment).
[0038]   Figure II shows the results of a pH sensing experiment on a porous silicon
substrate coated with a plasma polymerised film of acrylic acid. The data shows that
acrylic acid plasma polymer coatings on porous silicon can be used to measure
quantifiable changes in pH and in a reproducible fashion (left graph - buffer only) and
the readout signal (i.e. increase or decrease in the EOT) is not affected by fouling
proteins (fetal bovine serum, FBS) in the solution (right graph (Buffer + 10% (v/v/)
FBS). This shows that a variety of polymers can be applied to make the sensor device
enabling the fabrication of sensors with different sensitivities to pH; and that the sensors
can be used in environments containing a complex mixture of organic materials and
proteins such as wound fluid.
[0039]   Figure 12 shows qualitative detection of pH changes on flat silicon coated with
plasma polymerised pDEAEMA. Photographs of the pH sensor were taken in air and

                                             7
after subjecting the same sensor device to pH 7.0 and pH 4.0 solutions. The figure
shows that obvious changes in colour can be detected on the sensor in response to
changes in pH of the solution (or other types of environment).
[0040]   Figure 13 shows qualitative detection of pH changes on flat silicon coated with
plasma polymerised pDEAEMA. Photographs of the pH sensor were taken after
spotting solutions of pH 4 and pH 7 over the sensor and after removing the excess
solutions off the surface of the sensor device. This shows that the sensor can be used to
map the pH of the environment (e.g. a wound bed) and can be used as a "dip-stick" or
point-of-care sensor.
[0041]   Figure 14 shows an example of a dip-stick type pH sensor fabricated by
coating flat silicon with a plasma polymerised film of pDEAEMA. Solutions of pH 3.0
to 8.0, as indicated in the figure, were spotted onto the sensor device and were
subsequently allowed to air dry. The figure shows that the contrast of the spots (in
comparison to the background polymer coating) decreased as the pH was increased.
This type of sensor could be used as a point of care device or for mapping the pH of the
wound environment.
[0042]   Figure 15 show the stimulus responsive polymers can be used to coat a wide
range of materials such as a) polystyrene sheets for tissue culture or b) bandages for
wound dressings. The porous silicon particles coated with the stimulus responsive
polymers can be embedded into wound dressings such as polycaprolactone (PCL)
scaffolds for sensing or drug delivery as shown in c) or d) porous silicon or flat silicon
substrates can also be connected to (PCL) wound dressings for sensing/drug delivery.
[0043]   Figure 16 shows a schematic representation showing the fabrication process of
the porous silicon drug delivery device, which can also be used concurrently for sensing
pH.
[0044]   Figure 17 shows the demonstration for the delivery of a biologically active
horseradish peroxidase enzyme (left graph) and a glycosaminoglycan (right graph) from
porous silicon and from porous silicon coated with a pH responsive plasma polymer
film, enabling the sustained release of biomolecules. The plasma coating process does

                                              8
not damage/remove the sensitive enzyme when it is loaded into porous silicon. The drug
delivery functionality can be directly incorporated into the sensor device without
deterioration of the sensor's sensitivity. The hybrid drug delivery/sensor devices can be
incorporated into wound bandage dressings.
[0045]    Figure 18 shows a porous silicon-polymer surface preparation using a
silanisation approach and ATRP to graft the polymer from the surface.
[0046]    Figure 19 shows changes in EOT of the pNIPAM grafted surface on
temperature switching between 25 and 50 'C, as a function of crosslinker concentration.
The polymer used here was pNIPAM and crosslinker was methylene bisacrylamide and
polymerisation was carried out using the silanisation route. The EOT changes indicate a
switch in behaviour of the polymer from individual (EOT>0) chains to bulk hydrogel
(EOT<0) as the crosslinker concentration increases.
[0047]    Figure 20 shows aspirin release from A) a non-crosslinked and B) a crosslinked
(1% crosslinker) porous silicon-pNIPAM surface prepared using the silanisation
approach and 10 min of ATRP polymerisation. From the data it can be inferred that the
responsive release characteristics of the drug is dependent on the crosslinking density
offering additional control over the release.
[0048]    Figure 21 shows a schematic showing fabrication of polymer cap on porous
silicon using a dual hydrosilylation approach.
[0049]    Figure 22 shows levofloxacin release from porous silicon pNIPAM surface
prepared using dual hydrosilylation; A) 30 and B) 60 mins of polymerisation (ATRP)
with 1%crosslinker (methylene bisacrylamide).
[0050]    Figure 23 shows the effect of the thickness of the plasma polymerised 1,7
octadiene on levofloxacin release from pSi.
[0051]       Figure 24 shows the effect of plasma power during 1,7 - octadiene
deposition on levofloxacin release from pSi.
[0052]       Figure 25 shows the drug release from oxidised pSi at pH 3 and pH 7.

                                             9
[0053]       Figure 26 shows drug release from pSi modified with 500 nm of acrylic acid
plasma polymer.
[0054]       Figure 27 shows drug release from pSi modified with octadiene followed by
acrylic acid.
[0055]       Figure 28 shows cell count data, demonstrating that functional heparin and
heparin + FGF-2 can be released from the porous silicon pH sensor (coated with 400 nm
thick film of pDEAEMA) to stimulate cell proliferation after 120 h of incubation.
[0056]       Figure 29A shows a schematic of polymer templated from colloidal crystal
array of 200 nm diameter polystyrene spheres. Figure 29B shows a schematic of
photonic polymer formation. A typical optical reflectance is shown in Figure 29C.
[0057]       Figure 30 shows a photograph of the photonic polymer at low (pH 5.56) and
high pH (pH 7.41).
[0058]       Figure 31A shows measurements of reflected photonic spectra at different
pH from the photonic polymer incorporated into Smith & Nephew transparent bandage.
Figure 31 B shows the shift in photonic peak with changing pH.
[0059]       Figures 32A and B show the photonic polymer integrated into a 3M
bandage. In this case the polymer is sealed between two dressings to demonstrate the
observable colour of the polymer. Figure 32C, D and E shows the photonic polymer
integrated into wound dressing, applied to healthy skin (C) and two chronic wounds (D,
E).
[0060]       Figure 33A shows a SEM image of an optical fibre coupled to a porous
membrane to form a dip sensor. Figure 33B shows a schematic of the optical setup of
the dip sensor for the analysis of interferometry the porous silicon.

                                            10
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0061]    The present disclosure relates to substrates that are stimulus responsive and
uses of such substrates.
[0062]    Certain disclosed embodiments have one or more combinations of advantages.
For example, some of the advantages of the embodiments disclosed herein include one
or more of the following: a substrate that is responsive to temperature and/or pH; a
substrate that provides a visual output of temperature and/or pH; a substrate that
provides the ability to measure changes in temperature; a substrate that provides the
ability to measure changes in pH; a substrate that can be used to both detect changes in
temperature and/or pH and also provide temperature and/or pH responsive drug release;
a substrate that may be incorporated into wound dressings; a substrate that may be
incorporated into bandages; a substrate that has intrinsic anti-bacterial properties; a
substrate that may be used to detect physiological changes; a substrate that may be used
to improve wound management; a substrate that may be used to improve wound
treatment; a substrate that may be used as a diagnosis tool; a substrate that may be used
to deliver therapeutic agents in a controlled fashion; a substrate that may be used as a
theranostic; a substrate that may be used an optical sensor; a substrate that may be used
to absorb an agent with little loss of activity of the agent; to address one or more
problems in the art; to provide one or more advantages in the art; and/or to provide a
useful commercial choice. Other advantages of certain embodiments are disclosed
herein.
[0063]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a substrate comprising a
stimulus responsive polymer attached to a substrate. Certain embodiments of the present
disclosure provide a substrate with an attached stimulus responsive polymer. The use of
one or more stimulus responsive polymers may thereby impart to the substrate stimulus
responsiveness.
[0064]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises one or more of silicon, gold,
silver, aluminium, a polymer and a glass. Other suitable substrates are contemplated.
Methods for producing such substrates are known in art.

                                             11
[0065]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon substrate. Methods
for producing silicon substrates are known in the art.
[0066]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a silicon substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the silicon substrate. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide a silicon substrate with an attached
stimulus responsive polymer.
[0067]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a polymer substrate
comprising     a stimulus  responsive polymer       attached    to the    substrate. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide a polymer substrate with an attached
stimulus responsive polymer. In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a
photonic polymer.
[0068]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a glass substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the glass substrate. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide a glass substrate with an attached
stimulus responsive polymer.
[0069]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide the use of a substrate as
described herein in a sensor, a dip sensor, an optical fibre, a cell culture vessel, a wound
dressing, a dressing, a bandage, a device, an implantable article, an insertable article,
and an embeddable article. Other uses are contemplated.
[0070]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises one or more of a flat substrate,
a film, a membrane and particles.
[0071]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a flat substrate. In certain
embodiments, the substrate comprises a film. In certain embodiments, the substrate
comprises a membrane. In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises particles.
[0072]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon substrate. In certain
embodiments, the silicon substrate comprises one or more of a flat silicon substrate, a
silicon membrane and silicon particles.

                                            12
[0073]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a flat silicon substrate.
Methods for producing flat silicon are known in the art.
[0074]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon membrane. Methods
for producing silicon membranes are known in the art. In certain embodiments, the
substrate comprises a flat silicon substrate. Methods for producing flat silicon are
known in the art. In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon film
substrate. Methods for producing silicon films are known in the art. In certain
embodiments, the substrate comprises silicon particles. Methods for producing silicon
particles are known in the art.
[0075]    In certain embodiments, the silicon substrate comprises one or more of a flat
silicon substrate, a silicon membrane and silicon particles.
[0076]    In certain embodiments, the substrate with attached stimulus responsive
polymer is responsive to a non-biological property. Examples of non-biological
properties include temperature, pH, light, pressure, humidity and moisture. Other types
of properties are contemplated. In certain embodiments, the substrate with attached
stimulus responsive polymer is response to a non-physiological property. In certain
embodiments, the substrate with attached stimulus responsive polymer may used to
measure and/or determine a parameter associated with such properties and thereby
provide information on the state of a property.
[0077]    In certain embodiments, the substrate with attached stimulus responsive
polymer is responsive to a biological property. Examples of biological properties
include temperature, pH, glucose levels, oxygen levels, osmolality, levels of hormones,
levels of nutrients and levels of toxins. Other types of biological properties are
contemplated. In certain embodiments, the substrate with attached stimulus responsive
polymer is responsive to a physiological property. In certain embodiments, the substrate
with attached stimulus responsive polymer may used to measure and/or determine a
parameter associated with such properties and thereby provide information on the state
of a property.

                                              13
[0078]    In certain embodiments, the substrate with attached stimulus responsive
polymer comprises a thermoresponsive property and/or a pH responsive property. In
certain embodiments, the thermoresponsive property comprises a thermoresponsive
property between 25 0C and 500 C, or about this range. In certain embodiments, the
substrate with attached stimulus responsive polymer may used to measure and/or
determine temperature and/or pH.
[0079]    In certain embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH responsive
property between pH 2.6 and pH 9.6, or about this range. In certain embodiments, the
pH responsive property comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of at least
2 pH units, at least 1.5 pH units, at least 1.0 pH units, at least 0.5 pH units, or at least
0.2 pH units. In certain embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH
responsive property with a sensitivity of at 2 pH units or less, 1.5 pH units or less 1.0
pH units or less, 0.5 pH units or less, or 0.2 pH units or less.
[0080]    In certain embodiments, the thermoresponsive property and/or the pH
responsive property comprise a change in optical reflective characteristics. In certain
embodiments, the optical reflective characteristics may used to measure and/or
determine temperature and/or pH.
[0081]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is responsive to a
non-biological property. Examples of non-biological properties are described herein. In
certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is responsive to a non
physiological property.
[0082]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is responsive to a
biological property. Examples of biological properties are described herein. In certain
embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is responsive to a physiological
property.
[0083]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a
thermoresponsive property and/or a pH responsive property. In certain embodiments,
the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a thermoresponsive property between 25'C
and 50C, or about this range. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer

                                              14
comprises a pH responsive property between pH 2.6 and pH 9.6, or about this range. In
certain embodiments, stimulus responsive polymer comprises a pH responsive property
with a sensitivity of at least 2 pH units, at least 1.5 pH units, at least 1.0 pH units, at
least 0.5 pH units, or at least 0.2 pH units. In certain embodiments, stimulus responsive
polymer comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of 2 pH units or less, 1.5
pH units or less, 1.0 pH units or less. 0.5 pH units or less, or 0.2 pH units or less. In
certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a property which
comprises a change in optical reflective characteristics.
[0084]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a single
polymer. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises one or
more polymers. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a
co-polymer.
[0085]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a non
cross linked polymer. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer
comprises a cross-linked polymer. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive
polymer comprises a cross-linked polymer and/or a non-cross linked polymer.
[0086]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus          responsive polymer comprises a
polyacrylate polymer. Examples of polyacrylate polymers include poly(acrylic acid),
poly(methacrylic       acid),     poly(propionic     acid),   poly(2-(dimethylamino)ethyl
methacrylate) and poly(oligoethylene glycol methacrylates).
[0087]    In   certain    embodiments,      the   polyacrylate    polymer    comprises    a
polymethylacrylate polymer.
[0088]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus          responsive polymer comprises a
polyacrylamide      polymer      including    poly(N-isopropylacrylamide)     or  Poly(N
ethylacrylamide).
[0089]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus          responsive polymer comprises a
polyvinyl polymer including poly(vinyl methyl ether).

                                             15
[0090]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises one or
more of a polyacrylate polymer, a polyacrylamide polymer and a polyvinyl polymer.
[0091]    Methods for forming polymers on substrates are known. Methods for forming
polymers on silicon are known in the art and are described, for example, in M. Kurkuri,
M.R. Nussio, A. Deslandes, N.H. Voelcker. Thermosensitive Copolymer Coatings with
Enhanced Wettability Switching. Langmuir, 24 (2008), 4238-4244 or S. Pace, R.B.
Vasani, F. Cunin, N.H. Voelcker, Study of the Optical Properties of Thermoresponsive
Polymer Grafted from Porous silicon Scaffolds, New Journal of Chemistry, 37 (2013),
228-235.
[0092]    In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is produced by a
method comprising one or more of plasma polymerisation, atom transfer radical
polymerisation, reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer polymerisation, free
radical polymerisation, spin coating, photo polymerisation or dip-coating. Other
methods are contemplated. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer is
produced by a method comprising plasma polymerisation. In certain embodiments, the
stimulus responsive polymer is produced by a method that does not involve atom
transfer radical polymerisation.
[0093]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a stimulus response polymer
with a thickness of 1 mm or less, 500 tm or less, 400 tm or less, 300 tm or less, 200
 tm or less, or 100 tm or less. Other thicknesses are contemplated and described herein.
[0094]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a stimulus response polymer
with a thickness of 200 tm or less. Other thicknesses are contemplated.
[0095]    In certain embodiments, the substrate may further comprise a non-stimulus
responsive polymer. In certain embodiments, the substrate may further comprise one or
more non-stimulus responsive polymers. Examples of non-stimulus responsive
polymers include poly(allyl amine) or poly(methyl methacrylate).
[0096]    In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous substrate.

                                             16
[0097]   In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous silicon substrate.
Methods for producing porous silicon are known in the art and are as described herein.
[0098]   In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous aluminium substrate.
Porous aluminium is known in the art. Methods for attaching polymers to porous
aluminium are known in the art and are as described in, for example, A. Mutalib, D.
Losic, J.G. Shapter, N.H Voelcker. Nanoporous anodic alumina membranes with
layered surface chemistry. Chemical Communications, 21 (2009), 3062-3064.
[0099]   In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a flat gold substrate. Flat gold
is known in the art. Methods for attaching polymers to this substrate are known in the
art and as described in, for example, M. Cole, N.H. Voelcker, H. Thissen, R. Horn, H.
Griesser, Colloid probe AFM study of thermal collapse and protein interactions of
poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) coatings. Soft Matter, 6 (2010), 2657-2667.
[00100] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous silver substrate.
Porous silicon substrates are known in the art and commercially available. Methods for
attaching polymers to silicon substrates, including porous silicon, are known in the art.
[00101] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous photonic polymer.
Methods for producing porous polymers are known in the art.
[00102] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porosity of at least 50%.
Methods for determining the porosity of are known in the art. Other porosities are
contemplated.
[00103] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a pore size of 10 to 500 nm.
Methods for determining pore size are known in the art. Other pore sizes are
contemplated.
[00104] In certain embodiments, the pores of a porous substrate are coated with a non
stimulus responsive polymer. In certain embodiments, the pores of a porous substrate
are coated with one or more non-stimulus responsive polymers. Examples of non
stimulus responsive polymers are as described herein. Methods of attaching polymers to
porous substrates are known in the art.

                                              17
[00105] In certain embodiments, a porous substrate comprises a releasable agent.
Porous substrates are as described herein.
[00106] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is stimulus
responsive.
[00107] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is responsive to a
non-biological property. Examples of non-biological properties are as described herein.
In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is responsive to a non
physiological property. In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is
responsive to a non-physiological property.
[00108] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is responsive to a
biological property. Examples of biological properties are described herein. In certain
embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is responsive to a physiological
property.
[00109] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is thermoresponsive
and/or a pH responsive. In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent
comprises a thermoresponsive property between 25'C and 50'C, or about this range.
[00110] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent comprises a
thermoresponsive property between 30'C and 50"C, 35 0 C and 50"C, 25'C and 40'C and
35'C and 40C, or about these ranges.
[00111] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent comprises a pH
responsive property between pH 2.6 and pH 9.6, or about this range. In certain
embodiments, the release of the releasable agent comprises a pH responsive property
with a sensitivity of at least 2.0 pH units, at least 1.5 pH units, at least 1.0 pH units or at
least 0.5 pH units. In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent comprises
a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of 2.0 pH units or less, 1.5 pH units or less,
 1.0 pH units or less, or 0.5 pH units or less. In certain embodiments, the release of the
releasable agent comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 0.2 pH
units.

                                              18
[00112] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent comprises a pH
responsive property between pH 3.0 and pH 9.0, pH 4.0 and pH 9.0, pH 5.0 and pH 9.0,
pH 6.0 and pH 9.0, pH 7.0 and pH 9.0, pH 8.0 and pH 9.0, pH 4.0 and pH 8.0, pH 5.0
and pH 8.0, pH 6.0 and pH 8.0, and pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, or about these ranges.
[00113] In certain embodiments, the substrate with the attached polymer produces both
stimulus responsive sensing of a parameter and stimulus responsive release of the
releasable agent.
[00114] In certain embodiments, the releasable agent comprises a non-organic
compound, an organic compound, an enzyme, a reactant, an oxidant, a reductant, an
acid, and a base. Other types of agents are contemplated.
[00115] In certain embodiments, the releasable agent comprises a therapeutic agent.
[00116] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent comprises one or more of a drug,
a small molecule,       a biologic,     an antibody, an aptamer, a polypeptide,           an
oligonucleotide, a siRNA, an enzyme, a growth factor, a nucleic acid, a wound healing
agent, an anti-inflammatory agent, an anti-bacterial agent, an antibiotic, an anti-viral
agent, an antisense RNA, a toxin, a cytotoxic agent, a cytostatic agent, a cytotoxic
antibiotic, an anti-cancer agent, an alkylating agent, an anti-metabolite, a DNA
synthesis inhibitor, an apoptotic agent, a cell division inhibitor, an agent that reduces
cell resistance to a drug, an agent that promotes activity of a drug, and an agent that
induces differentiation of a cell (a cell differentiating agent). Other types of therapeutic
agent are contemplated. The term "therapeutic agent" refers to an agent that when
delivered to a biological site is able to provide a desirable and/or beneficial effect.
[00117] Examples of anti-cancer agents include alkylating agents (such as cisplatin,
carboplatin, oxaliplatin, mechlorethamine,         cyclophosphamide,     chlorambucil,  and
ifosfamide), anti-metabolites (such as azathioprine and mercaptopurine), plant alkaloids
and terpenoids (such as vincristine, vinblastine, vinorelbine and vindesine), cell cycle
inhibitors (such as podophyllotoxin), taxanes (such as paclitaxel), topoisomerase
inhibitors (such as camptothecins, irinotecan and topotecan, amsacrine, etoposide,
etoposide phosphate, and teniposide), and cytotoxic antibiotics (such as actinomycin,

                                           19
doxorubicin, daunorubicin, valrubicin, idarubicin, epirubicin, bleomycin, plicamycin
and mitomycin. Other anti-cancer agents are contemplated.
[00118] Examples of antibiotics include Aminoglycosides, Ansamycins, Carbacephem,
Carbapenems,      Cephalosporins,     Glycopeptides,       Lincosamides,   Lipopeptides,
Macrolides, Monobactams, Nitrofurans, Oxazolidonones, Penicillins, Polypeptides,
Quinolones, Sulfonamides, and Tetracyclines. Other antibiotics are contemplated.
[00119] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent comprises one of more of an
anti-inflammatory agent, a NSAID, acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), ibuprofen, prednisone,
levofloxacin, vancomycin, a growth factor, a wound healing agent such as allopurinol or
Flightless antibody. Other agents are contemplated.
[00120] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent comprises a combination of
agents as described herein.
[00121] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a material comprising a
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein, thereby
imparting stimulus responsive properties to all or part of the material.
[00122] In certain embodiments, the material comprises particles comprising the
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the material comprises a membrane comprising a substrate comprising a
stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the material
comprises a flat substrate comprising the substrate comprising a stimulus responsive
polymer, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the material comprises particles
comprising the substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
Methods for incorporating substrates into materials are known in the art.
[00123] In certain embodiments, the material comprises a substrate comprising a
stimulus responsive polymer and a releasable agent, as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the material has the property of stimulus responsive release of the
releasable agent.

                                             20
[00124] In certain embodiments, the material may be incorporated into a device or
article. Such a device or article may be used to assess or measure a parameter and/or to
release a releasable agent in response to changes in a parameter. Examples of devices or
articles include an optical fibre, a sensor, a bandage, a wound dressing, a dressing, a
sensor, a cell culture vessel, and a multi-well plate, such as a microtitre plate.
[00125] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an optical fibre
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
Methods for incorporating substrates into, or in communication with, optical fibres are
known in the art. For example, an optically reflective substrate as described herein may
be used in conjunction with an optical fibre, thereby allowing changes in the reflective
properties of the substrate to be measured at a site using the optical fibre. In this way, a
parameter such as temperature and/or pH parameter can be assessed or measured.
[00126] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a cell culture vessel
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
For example, a substrate comprising a pH responsive polymer as described herein may
be incorporated into one or more of the walls of a plastic tissue culture flask and thereby
allow assessment of the pH of the culture medium in which cells are growing. A
substrate as described herein may similarly be incorporated into all or part of the wells
of a multi-well plate. In certain embodiments, the cell culture vessel comprises a flat
substrate as described herein. In certain embodiments, the cell culture vessel comprises
a film as described herein. In certain embodiments, the cell culture vessel comprises a
membrane comprising a substrate as described herein. Methods for incorporating
substrates into plastics are known in the art.
[00127] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a wound dressing or
bandage comprising a substrate as described herein. For example, a flexible membrane
or particles comprising a substrate as described herein may be incorporated or
embedded into a wound dressing or bandage. Wound dressings and bandages are as
described herein.
[00128] For example, a substrate comprising a thermoresponsive polymer and/or a pH
responsive polymer can be incorporated into a wound dressing or bandage and used to

                                           21
monitor whether the wound becomes infected, such as due to changes in temperature
and/or pH. For many infections, a change in temperature is associated with the
infection. Incorporation of a stimulus responsive substrate as described herein that is
responsive to temperature into a wound dressing or bandage may be used to monitor the
temperature of a wound and thereby provide an early indication of possible infection of
the wound.
[00129] In another example, a substrate comprising a thermoresponsive polymer and/or
a pH responsive polymer can be incorporated into a wound dressing or bandage and
used to release a therapeutic agent to the wound when the wound becomes infected,
such as due to changes in temperature and/or pH of the wound. For many infections, a
change in temperature is associated with the infection. Incorporation of a stimulus
responsive substrate as described herein that is responsive to temperature into a wound
dressing or bandage may be used to deliver a therapeutic agent (such as an anti-bacterial
agent) to the wound and thereby provide early treatment of possible infection of the
wound.
[00130] In another example, a substrate comprising a thermoresponsive polymer and/or
a pH responsive polymer can be incorporated into a wound dressing or bandage and
used to both monitor whether the wound becomes infected and also to release a
therapeutic agent to the wound when the wound becomes infected in response to
changes in temperature and/or changes in pH.
[00131] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an implantable article
comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
Examples of implantable articles include biological scaffolds, mechanical or electrical
devices, pumps, and drug delivery devices.
[00132] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a sensor comprising a
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
[00133] In certain embodiments, the sensor provides qualitative sensing. For example,
the visual colour of the sensor may be indicative of the temperature and/or pH of a site
and changes in the colour indicative of changes in these parameters.

                                            22
[00134] In certain embodiments, the sensor provides quantitative sensing. In certain
embodiments, the sensor provides qualitative and/or quantitative sensing. In certain
embodiments, the sensor provides qualitative and quantitative sensing. In certain
embodiments, the sensor is a point of care sensor or a dip-type sensor. Other types of
sensor are contemplated.
[00135] In certain embodiments,        the sensor comprises particles comprising the
substrate as described herein. In certain embodiments, the sensor comprises a membrane
comprising the substrate as described herein. In certain embodiments, the sensor
comprises a flat substrate comprising the substrate as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the sensor comprises a film comprising the substrate as described herein.
Methods for incorporating substrates into sensors are known in the art.
[00136] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing a
parameter using a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described
herein. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing a
parameter using a sensor as described herein.
[00137] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing a
parameter, the method comprising using a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive
polymer attached to the substrate to sense the parameter.
[00138] Examples of parameters are as described herein and include one or more of
temperature, pH, light, pressure, humidity and moisture, glucose levels, oxygen levels,
osmolality, levels of hormones, levels of enzymes, levels of nutrients, and levels of
toxins. Other types of parameters are contemplated.
[00139] In certain embodiments, the parameter comprises temperature and/or pH.
[00140] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing
temperature and/or pH, the method comprising using a substrate comprising a stimulus
responsive polymer, as described herein.
[00141] Examples of substrates are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
substrate comprises one or more of silicon, gold, silver, aluminium, a polymer and a

                                               23
glass. Other substrates are contemplated.
[00142] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon substrate. In certain
embodiments, the silicon substrate comprises one or more of a flat silicon substrate, a
silicon membrane, a silicon film and silicon particles. In certain embodiments, the
silicon substrate is a porous silicon substrate.
[00143] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a photonic polymer.
[00144] Stimulus responsive polymers are as described herein. In certain embodiments,
the polymer comprises a thermoresponsive and/or a pH responsive polymer.
[00145] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of sensing
temperature and/or pH, the method comprising using a sensor comprising a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer to sense the temperature and/or pH.
[00146] In certain embodiments, the method comprises sensing the parameter at a non
biological site. Examples of non-biological sites include environmental sites, sites
associated with machinery, and sites associated with industrial or manufacturing
processes.
[00147] In certain embodiments, the method comprises sensing the parameter at a
biological site. Examples of biological sites include wounds, ulcers, burns, sites of
infection (eg bacterial, viral, fungal), sites susceptible to infection, tissues, organs and in
vitro sites including one or more cells (such as in cell culture vessels and multi-well
plates). Other types of biological sites are contemplated.
[00148] In certain embodiments, the biological site comprises a wound, or a site of
potential or known bacterial infection.
[00149] In certain embodiments, the biological site comprises all or part of a subject,
such as a human or animal subject. Examples of subjects are as described herein.
[00150] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of delivering
a releasable agent to a site.

                                              24
[00151] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of delivering
a releasable agent to a site, the method comprising: providing to a site a substrate
comprising a releasable agent and a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein,
and releasing the releasable agent from the substrate in response to a stimulus, thereby
delivering the releasable agent to the site.
[00152] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of delivering
a releasable agent to a site, the method comprising:
         providing to the site a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer
         attached to the substrate and a releasable agent; and
         releasing the releasable agent from the substrate in response to a stimulus,
         thereby delivering the releasable agent to the site.
[00153] Examples of sites to which a releasable agent may be delivered are as
described herein. In certain embodiments, the site comprises a non-biological site. In
certain embodiments, the site comprises a biological site. In certain embodiments, the
biological site comprises a wound, an ulcer, a burn, a site of infection, a tissue or an
organ. In certain embodiments, the biological site comprises all or part of a subject.
[00154] Delivery refers to providing a releasable agent to a desired or selected site, and
includes one or more of contacting, exposing and administering. Delivery may also
include delivery to sites other than the desired or selected site. Examples of delivery
include directly and/or indirectly bringing the substrate comprising the releasable agent
into contact with a desired site, bringing the substrate comprising the releasable agent
into the vicinity of a desired site, bringing the substrate comprising the releasable agent
near or adjacent to a desired site, or delivering the releasable agent to the desired site by
release of the agent from the substrate at a remote site (such as by administration).
[00155] Examples of releasable agents are as described herein. In certain embodiments,
the releasable agent comprises a therapeutic agent. Examples of therapeutic agents are
as described herein.
[00156] Examples of substrates are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
substrate is provided in a form comprising a wound dressing or bandage comprising the

                                             25
substrate.
[00157] Examples of stimulus responsive polymers are as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the stimulus responsive polymer comprises a thermoresponsive and/or
pH responsive polymer.
[00158] Examples of stimuli are as described herein. For example, the release of the
releasable agent may occur in response to a change in temperature and/or pH. Other
examples of stimuli include glucose levels, oxygen levels, osmolality, levels of
hormones, levels of nutrients and levels of toxins, and/or a change in such stimuli.
[00159] Certain embodiments         of the present    disclosure    provide a therapeutic
composition comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer and a
therapeutic agent, as described herein.
[00160] Such compositions can be used, for example, to provide release of a therapeutic
agent in response to a stimulus.
[00161] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous substrate. Examples
of porous substrates are as described herein.
[00162] Certain embodiments         of the present    disclosure    provide a  therapeutic
composition comprising a porous substrate comprising:
         (i) a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the porous substrate; and
         (ii) a therapeutic agent loaded onto the porous substrate.
[00163] The attachment of polymers to substrates is as described herein.
[00164] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent is absorbed onto the porous
substrate, directly and/or indirectly.
[00165] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of therapy, the
method comprising exposing a subject to an effective amount of a therapeutic
composition, as described herein.

                                            26
[00166] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide use of a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer as described herein in the preparation of a
medicament.
[00167] In certain embodiments, a therapeutic composition as described herein may be
used to prevent and/or treat selected diseases, conditions or states. In certain
embodiments, the condition or state comprises a wound, an ulcer, a burn, or an
infection. In certain embodiments, the diseases, conditions or state
[00168] A therapeutic composition may comprise other active agents, excipients,
dosage forms, stabilizers, and other agents suitable for use in connection with the
therapeutic composition.
[00169] The formulation of therapeutic compositions is known and described in, for
example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 17th ed., Mack Publishing Company,
Easton, Pa., 1985, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[00170] The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to that amount of an agent or
composition that when exposed to a cell, biological system or a subject is sufficient to
illicit the desired response or outcome. In certain embodiments, the effective amount is
a therapeutically effective amount.
[00171] The term "prevent", and related terms such as "prevention" and "preventing",
refer to obtaining a desired pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect in terms of
arresting or suppressing the appearance of one or more symptoms in the subject.
[00172] The term "treat", and related terms such as "treating" and "treatment", refer to
obtaining a desired pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect in terms of improving the
condition of the subject, ameliorating, arresting, suppressing, relieving and/or slowing
the progression of one or more symptoms in the subject, a partial or complete
stabilisation of the subject, a regression of the one or more symptoms, or a cure of a
disease, condition or state in the subject.
[00173] The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein refers to that
amount of an agent that is sufficient to effect prevention and/or treatment, when

                                             27
administered to a subject. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending
upon a number of factors, including for example the specific activity of the agent being
used, the severity of the disease, condition or state in the subject, the age, physical
condition, existence of other disease states, and nutritional status of the subject.
[00174] In certain embodiments, the subject as described herein is human subject. In
certain embodiments, the subject is a mammalian subject, a livestock animal (such as a
horse, a cow, a sheep, a goat, a pig), a domestic animal (such as a dog or a cat) and
other types of animals such as monkeys, rabbits, mice and laboratory animals. Other
types of animals are contemplated. Veterinary applications of the present disclosure are
contemplated.
[00175] In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a disease, condition or
state as described herein. Examples include bacterial infections or a cancer.
[00176] The therapeutic composition as described herein may be administered to the
subject in a suitable form. In this regard, the terms "administering" or "providing"
includes routes of administration that are systemic (e.g., via injection such as
intravenous injection, orally in a tablet, pill, capsule, or other dosage form useful for
systemic administration), topical (e.g., creams, solutions, and the like, including
solutions such as mouthwashes, for topical oral administration), nasal administration
(e.g. nasal sprays) and administration via the lung (e.g. nebulisation)
[00177] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein is
administered orally. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described
herein is administered intravenously. In certain embodiments, therapeutic composition
as described herein is administered via injection, such as intravenous injection. In
certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein is administered
by nebulized administration, by aerosolized administration or by being instilled into the
lung.
[00178] The therapeutic composition as described herein may be administered alone or
may be delivered in a mixture with other therapeutic agents and/or agents that enhance,
stabilise or maintain the activity of the active agents or the substrate In certain

                                             28
embodiments, an administration vehicle (e.g., pill, tablet, implant, injectable solution,
etc.) may contain both the therapeutic composition as described herein and additional
agent(s).
[00179] When administered to a subject, the therapeutically effective dosage may vary
depending upon the therapeutic composition utilized, the mode of administration, the
condition, and severity thereof, as well as the various physical factors related to the
subject being treated. The daily dosages are expected to vary with route of
administration, and the nature of the therapeutic composition administered. In certain
embodiments the methods comprise administering to the subject escalating doses of
therapeutic composition and/or repeated doses. In certain embodiments, therapeutic
composition is administered orally. In certain embodiments, therapeutic composition as
described herein is administered via injection, such as intravenous injection. In certain
embodiments, therapeutic composition as described herein is administered parenterally.
In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein is administered
by direct introduction to the lungs, such as by aerosol administration, by nebulized
administration, and by being instilled into the lung. In certain embodiments, the
therapeutic composition is administered by implant. In certain embodiments, the
therapeutic   composition     is  administered    by   implanting,    insertion,  embedding,
subcutaneous injection, intraarticularly, rectally, intranasally, intraocularly, vaginally, or
transdermally.
[00180] "Intravenous administration" is the administration of substances directly into a
vein. "Oral administration" is a route of administration where a substance is taken
through the mouth, and includes buccal, sublabial and sublingual administration, as well
as enteral administration and that through the respiratory tract, unless made through e.g.
tubing so the medication is not in direct contact with any of the oral mucosa. Typical
forms for the oral administration of therapeutic agents includes the use of tablets or
capsules.
[00181] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein is
provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier suitable for administering to a subject.
The carriers may be chosen based on the route of administration as described herein, the
location of the target issue, therapeutic composition being delivered, the time course of

                                             29
delivery of the drug, etc. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to a
substantially inert solid, semi-solid or liquid filler, diluent, encapsulating material or
formulation auxiliary of any type. An example of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
is physiological saline. Other physiologically acceptable carriers and their formulations
are known in the art.
[00182] In certain embodiments,         the  therapeutic   compositions    or medicaments
comprise other agents and/or agents that enhance, stabilise or maintain the activity of
the active.
[00183] Oral formulations containing therapeutic composition as described herein may
comprise any conventionally used oral forms, including tablets, capsules, buccal forms,
troches, lozenges and oral liquids, suspensions or solutions. Capsules may contain
mixtures of the active compound(s) with inert fillers and/or diluents such as the
pharmaceutically acceptable starches (e.g. corn, potato or tapioca starch), sugars,
artificial   sweetening   agents,   powdered      celluloses,  such   as    crystalline  and
microcrystalline celluloses, flours, gelatins, gums, etc. Useful tablet formulations may
be made by conventional compression, wet granulation or dry granulation methods and
utilize pharmaceutically acceptable diluents, binding agents, lubricants, disintegrants,
surface modifying agents (including surfactants), suspending or stabilizing agents,
including magnesium stearate, stearic acid, talc, sodium lauryl sulfate, microcrystalline
cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose calcium, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gelatin, alginic acid,
acacia gum, xanthan gum, sodium citrate, complex silicates, calcium carbonate, glycine,
dextrin, sucrose, sorbitol, dicalcium phosphate,         calcium sulfate, lactose, kaolin,
mannitol, sodium chloride, talc, dry starches and powdered sugar. Surface modifying
agents include nonionic and anionic surface modifying agents. Representative examples
of surface modifying agents include, but are not limited to, poloxamer                  188,
benzalkonium chloride, calcium stearate, cetostearl alcohol, cetomacrogol emulsifying
wax, sorbitan esters, colloidol silicon dioxide, phosphates, sodium dodecylsulfate,
magnesium aluminium silicate, and triethanolamine. Oral formulations may utilize
standard delay or time-release formulations to alter the absorption of the peptides. The
oral formulation may also consist of administering the active ingredient in water or a
fruit juice, containing appropriate solubilizers or emulsifiers as needed.

                                             30
[00184] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein may
also be administered by injection. Forms suitable for injectable use include sterile
aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. The carrier can be a solvent or
dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol,
propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol), suitable mixtures thereof, and
vegetable oils.
[00185] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein may
also be administered intravenously. Compositions for intravenous administration may
be formulated by a skilled person.
[00186] In certain embodiments, the therapeutic composition as described herein may
also be administered transdermally. Transdermal administrations are understood to
include all administrations across the surface of the body and the inner linings of bodily
passages including epithelial and mucosal tissues. Such administrations may be carried
out using pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, in lotions, creams, foams, patches,
suspensions, solutions, and suppositories (rectal and vaginal).
[00187] Additional numerous various excipients, dosage forms, dispersing agents and
the like that are suitable for use in connection with administration of the therapeutic
composition and/or formulation into medicaments. Formulations are known and
described in, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 17th ed., Mack
Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 1985, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
[00188] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a device or article with
the ability for both delivering a therapeutic agent delivery and also for sensing a
parameter. Examples of devices and articles are as described herein.
[00189] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a device or article for
delivering a therapeutic agent and sensing a parameter, the device or article comprising
a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate and a
releasable therapeutic agent.

                                            31
[00190] In certain embodiments, the device or article comprises a silicon substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
[00191] In certain embodiments, the device or article comprises a photonic polymer
substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer, as described herein.
[00192] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a device or article for
delivering a therapeutic agent and sensing a parameter, the device or article comprising
a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the silicon substrate
and a releasable therapeutic agent.
[00193] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a device or article for
delivering a therapeutic agent and sensing a parameter, the device or article comprising
a silicon substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the silicon
substrate and a releasable therapeutic agent.
[00194] Examples      of therapeutic agents      are as described     herein. In certain
embodiments, the therapeutic agent comprises a drug.
[00195] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a drug delivery and
sensing device, the device comprising a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive
polymer attached to the substrate and a releasable drug. Examples of substrates are as
described herein.
[00196] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a drug delivery and
sensing device, the device comprising a silicon substrate comprising a stimulus
responsive polymer attached to the silicon substrate and a releasable drug.
[00197] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of producing
a stimulus responsive material, as described herein.
[00198] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of producing
a stimulus responsive material, the method comprising:
         functionalising a surface of a substrate; and
         forming a polymer on the functionalised surface, wherein the polymer

                                             32
          comprises a stimulus responsive property.
[00199] In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive material is responsive to a
non-biological property. Examples of non-biological properties are as described herein
and include temperature, pH, light, pressure, humidity and moisture. In certain
embodiments, the stimulus responsive material is responsive to a non-physiological
property. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive material is responsive to a
non-physiological property.
[00200] In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive material is responsive to a
biological property. Examples of biological properties are as described herein and
include temperature, pH, glucose levels, oxygen levels. osmolality, levels of hormones,
levels of enzymes, levels of nutrients and levels of toxins. Other types of biological
properties are contemplated. In certain embodiments, the stimulus responsive material is
responsive to a physiological property.
[00201] In certain embodiments,        the stimulus responsive material      comprises    a
thermoresponsive property and/or a pH responsive property. In certain embodiments,
the thermoresponsive property comprises a thermoresponsive property between 25'C
and 50C. In certain embodiments, the thermoresponsive property comprises                  a
thermoresponsive property between 30"C and 50"C, 35'C and 50C, 25'C and 40"C and
35'C and 400 C, or about these ranges.
[00202] In certain embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH responsive
property between pH 2.6 and pH 9.6. In certain embodiments, the pH responsive
property comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 2.0 pH units,
at least 1.5 pH units, at least 1.0 pH units, or at least 0.5 pH units. In certain
embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH responsive property with a
sensitivity of 2.0 pH units or less, 1.5 pH units or less, 1.0 pH units or less, or 0.5 pH
units or less. In certain embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH
responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 0.2 pH units.
[00203] In certain embodiments, the pH responsive property comprises a pH responsive
property between pH 3.0 and pH 9.0, pH 4.0 and pH 9.0, pH 5.0 and pH 9.0, pH 6.0 and

                                            33
pH 9.0, pH 7.0 and pH 9.0, pH 8.0 and pH 9.0, pH 4.0 and pH 8.0, pH 5.0 and pH 8.0,
pH 6.0 and pH 8.0, and pH 7.0 and pH 8.0, or about any of these ranges.
[00204] Examples of substrates are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
substrate comprises one or more of silicon, gold, silver, aluminium, a polymer, and a
glass. Other suitable substrates are contemplated. Methods for producing such
substrates are known in art. Substrates are as described herein.
[00205] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon substrate. Methods
for producing silicon substrates are known in the art.
[00206] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a photonic polymer. Methods
for producing photonic polymers are known in the art.
[00207] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises one or more of a flat substrate,
a film, a membrane and particles.
[00208] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a flat silicon substrate.
Methods for producing flat silicon are known in the art. Methods for functionalising flat
silicon and attaching polymers are known in the art and are as described, for example, in
M. Kurkuri, M.R. Nussio, A. Deslandes, N.H. Voelcker. Thermosensitive Copolymer
Coatings with Enhanced Wettability Switching. Langmuir, 24 (2008), 4238-4244 or S.
Pace, R.B. Vasani, F. Cunin, N.H. Voelcker , Study of the Optical Properties of
Thermoresponsive Polymer Grafted from Porous silicon Scaffolds, New Journal of
Chemistry, 37 (2013), 228-235.
[00209] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a silicon membrane. Methods
for producing silicon membranes are known in the art. In certain embodiments, the
substrate comprises a flat silicon substrate. Methods for producing flat silicon are
known in the art. In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises silicon particles.
Methods for producing silicon particles are known in the art.
[00210] In certain embodiments, the silicon substrate comprises one or more of a flat
silicon substrate, a silicon membrane and silicon particles.

                                             34
[00211] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous substrate. Examples
of porous substrates are as described herein.
[00212] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous silicon substrate.
Methods for producing porous silicon are known in the art and are as described herein.
[00213] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous aluminium substrate.
Methods for producing porous aluminium are known in the art. Methods for attaching
polymers to porous aluminium are known in the art and are as described, for example,
in A. Mutalib, D. Losic, J.G. Shapter, N.H Voelcker. Nanoporous anodic alumina
membranes with layered surface chemistry. Chemical Communications, 21 (2009),
3062-3064.
[00214] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a flat gold substrate. Flat gold
is known in the art. Methods for attaching polymer to this substrate with a polymer are
known in the art and are described, for example, in M. Cole, N.H. Voelcker, H. Thissen,
R. Horn, H.J. Griesser, Colloid probe AFM study of thermal collapse and protein
interactions of poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) coatings. Soft Matter, 6 (2010), 2657-2667.
[00215] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous silver substrate.
Porous silver substrates are known in the art and commercially available. Methods for
attaching a polymer to silver substrates are known in the art.
[00216] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous polymer substrate.
Porous polymer substrates are known in the art and commercially available. Methods
for attaching a polymer to a polymer substrate are known in the art.
[00217] The term "functionalising" and related terms refers to the addition of one or
more chemical groups directly and/or indirectly to the surface of a substrate. Methods
for functionalising substrates are known in the art.
[00218] In certain embodiments the substrate comprises a silicon substrate. In certain
embodiments, the functionalising comprises hydrosilylation of the silicon substrate. In
certain embodiments, the functionalising comprises oxidation of the silicon substrate. In
certain embodiments, the functionalising comprises silanisation of the silicon substrate.

                                               35
In certain     embodiments,     the    functionalising comprises  hydrosilylation   and/or
silanisation of the silicon substrate.
[00219] In certain embodiments, the functionalising comprises dual hydrosilyation.
[00220] In certain embodiments, the functionalising comprises addition of a reactive
linker to the substrate.
[00221] In certain embodiments, the polymer is responsive to a non-biological property.
Examples of non-biological properties are described herein. In certain embodiments, the
polymer is responsive to a non-physiological property. In certain embodiments, the
polymer is responsive to a non-physiological property.
[00222] Polymers are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the polymer is
responsive to a biological property. Examples of biological properties are described
herein. In certain embodiments, the polymer is responsive to a physiological property.
[00223] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a thermoresponsive property
and/or a pH responsive property. In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a
thermoresponsive property between 25'C and 50C, or about this range. In certain
embodiments, the polymer comprises a pH responsive property between pH 2.6 and pH
9.6, or about this range. In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a pH
responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 2.0 pH units, at least 1.5 pH units, at
least 1.0 pH units, or at least 0.5 pH units. In certain embodiments, the polymer
comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of 2.0 pH units or less, 1.5 pH
units or less, pH units or less, or 0.5 pH units or less. In certain embodiments, the
polymer comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 0.2 pH units.
In certain embodiments, the thermoresponsive property and/or the pH responsive
property comprises a change in optical reflective characteristics of the substrate.
[00224] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a single polymer. In certain
embodiments, the polymer comprises one or more polymers. In certain embodiments,
the polymer comprises a co-polymer.
[00225] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a non-cross linked polymer. In

                                           36
certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a cross-linked polymer. In certain
embodiments, the polymer comprises a cross-linked polymer and/or a non-cross linked
polymer.
[00226] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a polyacrylate polymer.
Examples of polyacrylate polymers are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
polyacrylate polymer comprises a polymethylacrylate polymer.
[00227] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a polyacrylamide polymer.
Examples of polyacrylamide polymers are as described herein.
[00228] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises a polyvinyl polymer. Examples
of polyvinyl polymers are as described herein.
[00229] In certain embodiments, the polymer comprises one or more of a polyacrylate
polymer, a polyacrylamide polymer and a polyvinyl polymer.
[00230] Methods for forming polymers on substrates are known.
[00231] In certain embodiments, the polymer is produced on the functionalised surface
by a method comprising one or more of plasma polymerisation, atom transfer radical
polymerisation, photo polymerisation, reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer
polymerisation, free radical polymerisation, spin coating or dip-coating. In certain
embodiments, the polymer is produced by a method that does not involve atom transfer
radical polymerisation.
[00232] In certain embodiments, the polymer is produced by a method comprising
plasma polymerisation. In certain embodiments, the polymer is formed by a method
comprising plasma polymerisation. In certain embodiments, the polymer is produced by
a method that does not involve atom transfer radical polymerisation.
[00233] In certain embodiments, the polymer is produced by a method comprising
photo polymerisation.

                                            37
[00234] In certain embodiments, the method comprises forming a polymer coating with
a thickness of 1 mm or less, 500 pm or less, 400 pm or less, 300 pm or less, 200 pm or
less, or 100 pm or less. Other coating thicknesses are contemplated and described
herein.
[00235] In certain embodiments, the method comprises forming a polymer coating with
a thickness of 200 pm or less. Other coating thicknesses are as described herein.
[00236]     In certain embodiments, the substrate further comprises a non-stimulus
responsive polymer. In certain embodiments, the substrate further comprises one or
more non-stimulus responsive polymers.         Examples    of non-stimulus responsive
polymers are as described herein.
[00237] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises a porous substrate. Examples
of porous substrates are as described herein.
[00238] In certain embodiments, pores of the porous substrate are coated with a non
stimulus responsive polymer.
[00239] In certain embodiments, the porous substrate comprises a releasable agent.
Examples of releasable agents are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
releasable agent is loaded onto the porous substrate by absorption. In certain
embodiments, the releasable agent comprises a therapeutic agent. Examples of
therapeutic agents are as described herein.
[00240] In certain embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is stimulus
responsive. Examples of stimulus responsive release are as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the release of the releasable agent is thermoresponsive and/or pH
responsive.
[00241] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises stimulus responsive sensing of
a parameter and/or stimulus responsive release of a releasable agent.
[00242] In certain embodiments, the substrate comprises stimulus responsive sensing of
a parameter and stimulus responsive release of a releasable agent.

                                             38
[00243] In certain embodiments, the method comprises linking a first molecule to the
functionalised substrate. In certain embodiments, the method comprises forming the
polymer linked to and/or involving the first linked molecule.
[00244] In certain embodiments, the method comprises etching the functionalised
substrate linked to the first molecule. In certain embodiments, a second molecule is
linked to the substrate so etched.
[00245] In certain embodiments, a second polymer is formed linked to and/or involving
the second molecule. In certain embodiments, the second polymer is not stimulus
responsive. Examples of non-stimulus responsive polymers are as described herein.
[00246] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a stimulus responsive
material produced according to a method as described herein.
[00247] The present disclosure is further described by the following examples. It is to
be understood that the following description is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting with respect to the above
description.
EXAMPLE 1 - Porous silicon preparation:
[00248] Porous silicon films were prepared by the electrochemical etching of highly
doped, (100)-oriented, boron doped p* Si wafers (0.00055-0.001 Qcm resistivity)
(Siltronix, France) in a 1:1 (48%) aqueous hydrofluoric acid (HF)/ethanol solution
(Fisher Scientific). The etching process was performed in a Teflon cell with a platinum
electrode and a computer-controlled galvanostat (Keithley 2425). Prior to formation of
the sensing porous silicon layer, the silicon wafer underwent a pre-treatment in order to
inhibit the formation of a parasitic surface layer during the etch (Sciacca B., Secret E.,
Pace S., Gonzalez P., Geobaldo F., Quignarda F. and C. F., Journal of Materials
Chemistry, 2011.). The wafer with an exposed area of 1.76 cm 2 was first etched. using a
current density of 28.4 mA/cm 2 for 30 s, and then exposed to a 0.1 M NaOH solution
for two minutes. The chip was exposed to a HF:ethanol (1:1 volume ratio) solution and
then rinsed three times with ethanol and dried under a stream of nitrogen. The pre-

                                              39
treated silicon wafer was then etched at different constant current densities and times.
The porous silicon samples were rinsed 3 times with ethanol and dried under a stream of
nitrogen gas.
[00249] Thermal oxidation: Thermal oxidation was carried out by incubating the porous
silicon substrates in a Labec tube furnace (Laboratory Equipment Pty. Ltd.) at 600 "C
for I h. These substrates were subsequently coated with plasma polymerised films.
[00250] Plasma polymerisation: Plasma polymerisation was performed in a custom
built radio-frequency plasma reactor as previously described (Daw et al., Biomaterials,
 19 (1998) 1717-1725). During a typical coating process, the substrates are placed at or
near the centre of the chamber. The chamber is then pumped down to a pressure of 2 x
 10-3 Torr. The monomer, at flow rate of 0.2 standard cubic centimetres per minute
(sccm) for DEAEMA or 0.75 sccm for acrylic acid. is then bled into the chamber and
the plasma is ignited at about 1OW before being reduced to 2W. The deposition is
allowed to proceed until the desired film thickness is obtained. The plasma is then
switched off and the chamber is pumped to base pressure before the samples are
removed.
[00251] Chemical functionalisation: Three different surface functionalisations to
introduce pNIPAM within nanostructured porous silicon were used (Figure 1). Path A:
after etching, thermal oxidation was performed in a Labec tube furnace (Laboratory
Equipment Pty. Ltd.), at 600 'C for 1 hour, generating SiO bonds at the surface (V.
Petrova Koch, T. Muschik, A. Kux, B.K. Meyer, F. Koch and V. Lehmann, Appl. Phys.
Let., 1992, 61 943-945). Silanisation reaction were carried out in a 4 % solution of 3
(2-bromoisobutyramido)propyl(triethoxy)silane       (BIBAPTES)    in   freshly  distilled
toluene for 1 h, to immobilise the initiator. The BIBAPTES was synthesised following a
published procedure (R. B. Vasani, S. J. P. McInnes, M. A. Cole, A. M. M. Jani, A. V.
Ellis and N. H. Voelcker, Langmuir, 2011, 27, 7843-7853). After the silanisation
reaction, the samples were rinsed with ethanol and dried under a stream of nitrogen gas.
Surface     initiated atom    transfer    radical  polymerisation  (SI-ATRP)     of    N
isopropylacrylamide (NIPAM) (recrystallised, Aldrich) was carried out by immersing
the silanised porous silicon sample in a monomer solution consisting of 10 % w/v
NIPAM, 0.5 % w/v CuBr (Sigma), 0.1 % w/v CuBr2 (Sigma) and 1.5 % w/v PMDETA

                                              40
(99 %, Aldrich) in Milli-Q water (18.2 MQcm, Labconco). Nitrogen was continuously
bubbled through the reaction solution to expel oxygen. Polymerisation was performed
in a scintillation vial fitted with a modified screw-on cap for the introduction and escape
of nitrogen gas. The reaction was performed at 25 'C for 10 min. Once the reaction was
complete, the porous silicon samples were rinsed thoroughly with Milli-Q water and
dried under a stream of nitrogen gas. Path B: after etching, the samples were oxidised
by ozone for 30 min in order to generate silanol groups on the surface of the sample (E.
J. Anglin, L. Y. Cheng, W. R. Freeman and M. J. Sailor, Advanced Drug Delivery
Reviews, 2008, 60, 1266-1277). Silanisation and the polymerisation were carried out as
described for path A.
[00252] Path C: after etching, the samples were thermally hydrosilylated               with
undecylenic alcohol at 120 'C for 3 h under argon, to introduce hydroxyl groups on the
surface. Then the samples were reacted with 5 % w/v 2-bromoisobutyl bromide, 5 %
w/v triethylamine, in tetrahydrofuran (THF) for 1 h at room temperature to introduce the
polymerisation initiator. The samples were rinsed with THF and ethanol and dried under
a stream of nitrogen before performing polymerisation of NIPAM, DEAEMA or
MDETA by SI-ATRP as described previously. Once the reaction was complete, the
porous silicon samples were rinsed thoroughly with Milli-Q water and dried under a
stream of nitrogen gas.
[00253] A dual hydrosilylation approach was also employed in order to form a polymer
cap on the porous silicon films. After the first etching step and NaOH treatment (for the
removal of the parasitic layer) the surface was dipped into 1:1 HF:ethanol for 5 min and
then rinsed with ethanol, dried with nitrogen gas and thermally hydrosilylated with
undecylenyl alcohol for 3 h at 120'C under argon gas to introduce hydroxyl groups on
the surface. Following this, the wafer was transferred back to the Teflon cell and a
second etch was performed using different constant current densities and times. The
etched surface was then rinsed with ethanol and thermally hydrosilylated with octene
for 3 h at 110 'C under an argon atmosphere. Following the hydrosilylation reaction the
samples were rinsed with ethanol and dried under a stream of nitrogen before
performing polymerisation of NIPAM, acrylic acid or DEAEMA by SI-ATRP as
described previously.

                                            41
[00254] Alternatively, microwave hydrosilylation was also employed in the first
hydrosilylation step. After the parasitic layer removal etch and NaOH treatment, the
surface was placed in pre-purged (argon gas, 5 min) undecylenyl alcohol in a glass vial
and then transferred microwaved at 360 W for 4 min. Following hydrosilylation, the
surface was removed from the undecylenyl alcohol solution, washed with ethanol and
dried. The following etching and functionalisation steps were performed as described
above.
EXAMPLE 2 - Scanning electron microscopy (SEM):
[00255] SEM images were obtained on a FEI QuantaTM 450 Field Emission Gun
Environmental Scanning Electron Microscope. The porous silicon samples were coated
with a thin (3 nm) layer of platinum to prevent charging. A spot size of 3.0 mm and an
accelerating voltage of 15.0 kV were used to obtain the images in high vacuum mode.
EXAMPLE 3 - Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy:
[00256] FTIR spectroscopy was performed with a Nicolet iN1O microscope (Thermo
scientific) coupled to the liquid nitrogen cooled Mercury-cadmium-telluride (MCT)
detector, in attenuated total reflectance (ATR) mode. Background spectra were taken in
air and all spectra were recorded with an aperture size of 3 mm, over the range of 650
3800 cm- 1, at a resolution of 4 cm-1 averaging 64 scans.
EXAMPLE 4 - Nitrogen adsorption-desorption experiments:
[00257] Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms of the porous silicon films were
recorded at 77 K using a Micromeritics ASAP 2020 volumetric apparatus. Prior to the
adsorption experiment, the samples were outgassed overnight in situ at 298 K. The
surface area of the sample was measured by the BET (Brunauer-Emmett-Teller)
method, which yields the amount of adsorbate corresponding to a molecular monolayer
(P. H. E. Stephen Brunauer, Edward Teller, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1938, 60, 309-319; S. J.
Gregg and K. S. W. Sing, Adsorption, Surface Area and Porosity, Academic Press Inc.,
London, 1982). The pore dimensions were determined by using the BdB (Broekhof-de
Boer) method from the nitrogen adsorption curve (D. J. H. Broekhoff J.C.P., Journal of

                                             42
Catalysis, 1968, 10, 377-390). The mesoporous volume was measured as the adsorbed
volume at the top of the capillary condensation step of the isotherm. The specific
surface area of the porous matrix and the porous volume were expressed per
geometrical unit area of the porous silicon sample.
EXAMPLE 5 - Interferometric reflectance spectral measurements (IRS):
[00258] White light from a tungsten lamp (Ocean Optics) was fed through one end of a
bifurcated fiber-optic cable and focused through a lens onto the surface of the porous
silicon film at normal incidence. The light source was then focused onto the centre of
the sample surface with a spot size of approximately 1 mm in diameter. Light reflected
from the film was collected through the same optics, and the distal end of the bifurcated
fiber optic cable was connected to a CCD spectrometer (Ocean Optics S-2000).
Reflectivity spectra were recorded in the wavelength range 400-1000 nm, with a
spectral acquisition time of 0.1 s. Typically 50 spectral scans (5 s total integration time)
were averaged.     A fast Fourier Transform (FFT) using an algorithm from the
Wavemetrics Inc. (www.wavemetrics.com) IGOR program library was applied to the
resulting spectrum according to previously published procedure (S. Pace, B. Seantier, E.
Belamie, N. Lautredou, M. J. Sailor, P.-E. Milhiet and F. Cunin, Langmuir, 2012).
[00259] Experiments were carried out in a custom-made aqueous flow cell at room
temperature. In order to modulate the temperature of the solution, the samples were
immersed in water of controlled temperature, and the temperature of the water was
measured with a thermocouple. The water was introduced at a flow rate of 10 mL/min.
The samples were monitored at 25'C for 10 min, then the temperature was raised to
50'C for 10 min, followed by perfusion of 25 C water through the flow cell for 10 min.
Interference spectra were collected in 1 minute intervals. The data displayed are the
average of six replicates for each condition. In order to modulate the pH of the solution,
different solutions of 0.1 M phosphate-citrate buffer (pH 2.6 to pH 7.0), sodium
phosphate (pH 5.0 to 8.0) or carbonate buffer (pH 9.6) were injected into the flow and
allowed to incubate over the surface of the substrate under static (no flow) conditions.

                                            43
EXAMPLE 6 - Thickness and porosity calculations:
[00260] The optical parameters of porous silicon (thickness, porosity and refractive
index) were obtained by performing a best-fit calculation of the reflectance spectrum,
by means of a simulation program (SCOUT, obtained from M. Theiss Hard- and
Software) that is based on the transfer matrix method (Born M. and W. E., 7th ed.
Cambridge University Press: New York, 1999, 952.). The software generates the
theoretical reflectance spectrum of the porous silicon film, calculating its effective
refractive index using the dielectric function of bulk silicon and using a Bruggeman
effective medium approximation (C. F. Bohren and D. R. Huffman, Adsorption and
scattering of light by small particles, Wiley, New York, 1983). Porosity and thickness
are the two free parameters of the model; their value is adjusted in a least-squares
algorithm in order to obtain the best fit between the experimental and the calculated
spectra.
EXAMPLE 7 - Pore filling calculation
[00261] The pore filling was calculated using the transfer matrix method from the
program SCOUT, previously described. In order to obtain a best fit between the
experimental reflectance spectrum and the theoretical reflectance spectra, the refractive
index of the polymer, the pore filling and the thickness of the polymer layer were added
to the previous parameters (thickness, porosity and refractive index of the porous layer).
The experimental spectra were recorded in air. The model generates the theoretical
reflectance spectrum of the porous silicon-polymer film, calculating its effective
refractive index using the dielectric function of the bulk silicon, of the polymer and
applying a Bruggeman effective medium approximation.
EXAMPLE 8 - Drug loading and release.
[00262] Levofloxacin loading was performed by placing the porous silicon-polymer
composite surface into a glass vial fitted with a tap and then pumping the surface under
vacuum for 15 min in order to remove any air trapped inside the pores. Following this, a
 16 mg/mL solution of levofloxacin in DMF was introduced into the chamber using a
syringe and the vial was then quickly brought up to room temperature. The surface was

                                            44
then incubated in the drug solution for an hour at either room temperature or 40"C.
Loaded surfaces were then taken out of the vial, rinsed with ethanol and dried under a
stream of nitrogen gas. Aspirin loading was perform by placing the porous silicon
polymer composite films into glass vials containing a 40 mg/mL solution of aspirin in
DMF in a vacuum dessicator and leaving the surfaces overnight under vacuum.
Following this, the surfaces was removed from the vials and quickly rinsed with Milli-Q
water (18 mQcm) and dried under nitrogen gas.
[00263] Drug release from porous silicon-polymer composites by fluorimetry. The
release of levofloxacin from loaded samples was monitored by fluorimetry. The
fluorimeter cuvette was filled with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) (pH 7.4) and the
drug-loaded sample was immersed into it and placed outside of the optical path. The
release of the drug over time was measured using a Perkin Elmer Instruments LS55
Luminescence Spectrometer with an excitation wavelength of 292 nm and an emission
wavelength of 454 nm and 5 nm slit widths. Loaded samples were cut into two pieces of
similar dimensions. One piece was used for measuring the release at room temperature
and the other for measuring the release at 45 'C
[00264] The release of aspirin from the loaded samples was monitered using UV
spectroscopy. The UV cuvette was filled with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) (pH 7.4)
and the drug-loaded sample was immersed into it and placed outside of the optical path.
The release of the drug over time was measured using a Hewlett-Packard 8452 diode
array spectrophotometer and analysed using an Agilent Tecchnologies 8452 UV-Vis
Chemstation, at a wavelength of 298 nm. Loaded samples were cut into two pieces of
similar dimensions. One piece was used for measuring the release at room temperature
and the other for measuring the release at 45'C.
EXAMPLE 10 - Change in colour associated with the switching of stimulus responsive
polymer coated on a porous silicon substrate
[00265] Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of a porous silicon substrate coated
with a stimulus responsive polymer (top) and a photograph of the porous silicon
substrate before and after coating with the polymer (bottom). The change in the colour
of the porous silicon substrate indicates the surface has been covered with the polymer

                                            45
(> 100 nm).
EXAMPLE 11 - Characterisation of a pDEAEMA coating
[00266] Figure 3 shows a typical X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of a
porous silicon substrate coated with a 400 nm thick film of pDEAEMA by plasma
polymerisation. The elements (oxygen, nitrogen, carbon) characteristic for the polymer
are detected, whereas the underlying silicon substrate is not detected due to attenuation
of the Si signal by the pDEAEMA film. This shows that the polymer was successfully
coated onto the porous silicon substrate.
[00267] Figure 4 shows a side-on view of a porous silicon substrate coated with
pDEAEMA by plasma polymerisation. The image was taken by scanning electron
microscopy. The polymer thickness in this figure is 400 nm. It shows that the polymer is
successfully coated over the porous silicon layer, which supports the XPS data.
EXAMPLE 12 - Measuring and quantifying changes in pH of the environment on
porous silicon coated with pDEAEMA
[00268] Figure 5 shows a time-lapse graph showing the change in the EOT of porous
silicon, coated with pDEAEMA, in response to changes in pH of 2.6 and 9.6. The
pronounced and reproducible change in the EOT upon addition of low and high pH
solutions clearly demonstrates the switchable nature of the sensor device.
[00269] Figure 6 shows time-lapse graph showing the change in the EOT of porous
silicon, coated with pDEAEMA, in response to changes in pH from 6.0 to 2.6 as
indicated in the graph. The results show the sensor has a detection limit as small as 0.2
pH units.
[00270] Figure 7 shows time-lapse EOT measurements of porous silicon functionalised
with pDEAEMA under pH solutions. The results show a pronounced change in EOT
between buffers of pH 7.0-5.0, pH 7.0-4.0 and pH 7.0-6.0. The magnitude of change in
the EOT was dependant on the pH demonstrating that quantitative detection of pH
changes is possible.

                                            46
[00271] Figure 8 shows the increase in EOT in response to change in pH from pH 7.0
to 4.0, or pH 7.0 to 5.0 or pH 7.0 to 6.0. Porous silicon samples were coated with
pDEAEMA by plasma polymerisation at 2 W to a thickness of 100 or 400 nm in Panel
A and at 2 W or 5 W to a thickness of 100 nm in Panel B. The results show that a range
of plasma polymerisation conditions can be used for the preparation of the pH sensor
for quantitative sensing.
[00272] Figure 9 shows the results of a pH sensing experiment on flat silicon. The
sensor device in this experiment consists of flat silicon coated with pDEAEMA. The
coating gives an interference pattern, which can be monitored interference reflectance
spectroscopy. The graph shows that the wavelength of the interference pattern
reproducibly increases or decreases as the pH of the solution is increased or decreased.
This type of sensor can also be used to measure quantifiable changes in pH of the
environment.
EXAMPLE 13 - pH sensor embedded in a wound dressing scaffold
[00273] Figure 10 shows a pH sensor embedded in a wound dressing scaffold. A
photograph of a porous silicon substrate connected to a porous PCL scaffold, by
thermally annealing the two materials together at 550 C, is shown at the top. The porous
nature of the scaffold makes it possible to use the sensor to measure quantifiable
changes in pH of the environment.
EXAMPLE        14 - pH sensor fabricated by coating porous silicon with plasma
polymerised acrylic acid
[00274] Figure 11 shows the results of a pH sensing experiment on a porous silicon
substrate coated with a plasma polymerised film of acrylic acid. The data shows that
acrylic acid plasma polymer coatings on porous silicon can be used to measure
quantifiable changes in pH and in a reproducible fashion (left graph - Buffer only) and
the readout signal (i.e. increase or decrease in the EOT) is not affected by fouling
proteins (fetal bovine serum, FBS) in the solution (right graph (Buffer + 10% (v/v/)
FBS). This shows that a variety of polymers can be applied to make the sensor device
enabling the fabrication of sensors with different sensitivities to pH; and that the sensors

                                            47
can be used in environments containing a complex mixture of organic materials and
proteins such as wound fluid.
EXAMPLE 15 - Qualitative pH sensing on flat silicon coated with plasma polymerised
pDEAEMA
[00275] Figure 12 shows qualitative detection of pH changes on flat silicon coated with
plasma polymerised pDEAEMA. Photographs of the pH sensor were taken in air and
after subjecting the same sensor device to pH 7.0 and pH 4.0 solutions. The figure
shows that obvious changes in colour can be detected on the sensor in response to
changes in pH of the environment.
[00276] Figure 13 shows qualitative detection of pH changes on flat silicon coated with
plasma polymerised pDEAEMA. Photographs of the pH sensor were taken after
spotting solutions of pH 4 and pH 7 over the sensor and after removing the excess
solutions off the surface of the sensor device. This shows that the sensor can be used to
map the pH of the environment (e.g. a wound bed) and can be used as a "dip-stick" or
point-of-care sensor.
[00277] Figure 14 shows an example of a dip-stick type pH sensor fabricated by
coating flat silicon with a plasma polymerised film of pDEAEMA. Solutions of pH 3.0
to 8.0, as indicated in the figure, were spotted onto the sensor device and were
subsequently allowed to air dry. The figure shows that the intensity of the colour of the
spots decreased as the pH was increased. This type of sensor could be used as a point of
care device or for mapping the pH of the wound environment.
[00278] Figure 15 show the stimulus responsive polymers can be used to coat a wide
range of materials such as a) polystyrene sheets for tissue culture or b) bandages for
wound dressings. The porous silicon particles coated with the stimulus responsive
polymers can be embedded into wound dressings such as polycaprolactone (PCL)
scaffolds for sensing or drug delivery as shown in c) or d) porous silicon or flat silicon
substrates can also be connected to (PCL) wound dressings for sensing/drug delivery.

                                             48
EXAMPLE 16 - Drug delivery
[00279] Figure 16 shows a schematic representation showing the fabrication process of
the porous silicon drug delivery device, which can also be used concurrently for sensing
pH or temperature, if desired.
[00280] Figure 17 shows the demonstration for the delivery of a biologically active
horseradish peroxidase enzyme (left graph) and a glycosaminoglycan (right graph) from
porous silicon and from porous silicon coated with a pH responsive plasma polymer
film, enabling the sustained release of biomolecules. The plasma coating process does
not damage/remove the sensitive enzyme when it is loaded into porous silicon. The drug
delivery functionality can be directly incorporated into the sensor device without
deterioration of the sensor's sensitivity. The hybrid drug delivery/sensor devices can be
incorporated into wound bandage dressings.
EXAMPLE 17 - Porous silicon-polymer composite fabrication method: Silanisation
Route
[00281] Figure 18 shows a porous silicon-polymer surface preparation using a
silanisation approach and ATRP to graft the polymer from the surface.
[00282] The polymer can be grafted either with a crosslinker or without providing
grafted polymer chains or a grafted hydrogel. The crosslinker depicted above is N,N'
methylenebisacrylamide, however, this can be changed to include diacrylates as well.
The silanisation method can be used to immobilise initiators for ATRP, RAFT and also
Free radical polymerisation onto the surface of the porous silicon film, membrane or
particles.
EXAMPLE 18 - Characterisation of polymer switching using IRS
[00283] Figure 19 shows changes in effective optical thickness (EOT) of the pNIPAM
grafted surface on temperature switching between 25 and 50 'C, as a function of
crosslinker concentration. The polymer used here was pNIPAM and crosslinker was
N,N'-methylenebisacrylamide and polymerisation was carried out using the silanisation
route. The EOT changes indicate a switch in behaviour of the polymer from individual

                                              49
(EOT>O) chains to bulk hydrogel (EOT<0) as the crosslinker concentration increases.
EXAMPLE 19 - Aspirin release from porous silicon-pNIPAM films
[00284] Figure 20 shows aspirin release from A) a non-crosslinked and B) a crosslinked
(1% crosslinker) porous silicon-PNIPAM surface prepared using the silanisation
approach and 10 min of ATRP polymerisation. From the data it can be inferred that the
responsive release characteristics of the drug is dependent on the crosslinking density
offering additional control over the release.
EXAMPLE         20    -   Porous   silicon-polymer   cap  composite    fabrication:  Dual
hydrosilylation method
[00285] Figure 21 shows a schematic showing fabrication of polymer cap on porous
silicon using a dual hydrosilylation approach.
[00286] This method allows immobilisation of the polymerisation initiator onto only
the outer surface of the porous layer. This allows for the formation of a polymer cap on
the outer surface of the layer. As in the case of the silanisation route, this method can
also be used to immobilise the initiators for ATRP, RAFT and free radical
polymerisation.
EXAMPLE 21 - Levofloxacin release from porous silicon-pNIPAM                    composites
prepared using the dual hydrosilylation route
[00287] Figure 22 shows Levofloxacin release from porous silicon-pNIPAM surface
prepared using dual hydrosilylation; A) 30 and B) 60 mins of polymerisation (ATRP)
with 1% crosslinker (N,N'-methylenebisacrylamide).
EXAMPLE 22 -Drug release from 1,7 - octadiene and acrylic acid modified pSi
[00288]      Porous     Silicon Preparation:   Highly doped (0.00055 -      0.001   Q cm
resistivity; Siltronix) p-type wafers were etched at 28.29 mA/cm2 for 400 sec in 1:1
HF:Ethanol mixtures. Thermal Oxidation was carried out at 600 'C for 1 hr in air.

                                            50
[00289]      Levofloxacin (LVX), a broad spectrum fluoroquinone antibiotic, was used
as the model drug for these experiments. A 100 mg/mL solution of LVX in DMF was
prepared and loading was performed by spin coating a drop of the stock onto the porous
surface. Samples were rinsed in acetone for 30 seconds to remove the drug present
outside the pores.
[00290]      (i) Effect of the thickness of the plasma polymerised 1,7 - octadiene on
levofloxacin release from pSi
[00291]      The porous silicon film was oxidised thermally at 600 'C for 1 hour and
loaded with LVX using spin coating. The loaded film was then placed in a plasma
reactor and coated with 4 different polymer layer thicknesses. The date is shown in
Figure 23. We found that no significant change in the release kinetics was observed
above a layer thickness of 100 nm. Hence, 256 nm layer thickness was employed for
this purpose.
[00292]      (ii) Effect of plasma power during 1,7 - octadiene deposition on LVX
release from porous silicon
[00293]      The porous silicon film was oxidised and loaded with LVX using spin
coating and 256 nm of plasma polymerised octadiene was deposited onto the surface
using 4 different plasma powers. The data is shown in Figure 24. We found that the
plasma power had very little effect on the release kinetics.
[00294]      (iv) Drug release controls
[00295]      The porous silicon film was oxidised, loaded with levofloxacin and the
release of the drug from the surfaces was measured in buffers at pH 3 and 7. The data is
shown in Figure 25. No significant difference in the release kinetics was observed at the
different pH and complete release of the payload occurred within 1 hour.
[00296]      (v) Drug release from porous silicom modified with 500 nm of acrylic acid
plasma polymer
[00297]      A porous silicon surface was oxidised, loaded with LVX and placed in the
plasma reactor where it was coated with an acrylic acid polymer layer of approximately
500 nm thickness. The data is shown in Figure 26. The release of the drug was found to

                                             51
be sustained at pH 3 however, a sudden burst release was observed at pH 7 (release
everything in 30 min). This is due to the fact that acrylic acid layers do not bind well to
pSi and delaminate on swelling at higher pH, thus opening the pores.
[00298]      (vi) Drug release from pSi modified with 1,7 - octadiene followed by acrylic
acid
[00299]      Using a dual layer coating of 1,7 - octadiene followed by acrylic acid we
managed to prevent the delamination of the acrylic acid layer while at the same time use
the thick octadiene layer to further regulate the drug release from the pores. The data is
shown in Figure 27. We found that the release rate of LVX from the pores was
approximately 4 times greater at pH 7 than at pH 3. Furthermore, the amount of drug
released at pH3 is quite less and hence, this sort of release profile can be considered on
off.
EXAMPLE 23 - Delivery of functional heparin/FGF-2 from porous silicon stimulates
cell proliferation
[00300] This study shows functional heparin can be released from the porous silicon
pH sensitive polymer substrate (i.e. porous silicon coated with 400 nm thick film of
pDEAEMA). After loading porous silicon with heparin and heparin + FGF-2, the
substrates were coated with a 400 nm thick film of pDEAEMA.
[00301] Cell based assays: 5000 cells were seeded in a 12-well plate in 500 [d of media.
After incubation for 30 minutes, the wells were washed 3 times in PBS and counted (5
fields of view per well). A well insert with a mesh was added to hold the porous silicon
samples 2 mm above the cells and a further 1 ml media was added. After incubation for
12 h to allow release of the agents, the porous silicon samples were removed from the
wells.
[00302]      Cells were counted at 48 and 120 h of incubation and cell vitality was
analysed with the resazurin assay at the 120 h incubation time period. The data is shown
in Figure 28. Figure 28A shows cell count data, demonstrating that functional heparin
and heparin + FGF-2 can be released from the porous silicon-pH sensitive polymer
substrate (coated with 400 nm thick film of pDEAEMA) to stimulate cell proliferation
after 120 h of incubation. Figure 28B shows the results of the resazurin assay, showing

                                              52
that the plasma delivery of heparin and heparin + FGF-2 can increase cell vitality in
vitro.
EXAMPLE 24 - pH sensitive photonic polymers
[00303]       Polymer was templated from colloidal crystal array of 200 nm diameter
polystyrene spheres as shown in Figure 29A.
[00304]       2.68 % (w/v) polystyrene solution deposited on oxygen plasma cleaned
glass. PDMS 'well' used to contain the solution. Liquid was evaporated at 450 C to
facilitate formation of a colloidal crystal array.
[00305]       Monomer mixture:
              Methacrylic acid - 10 pL
              Acrylic acid - 10 ptL
              2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate - 100 pL
              Ethyleneglycol dimethacrylate - 3 [L
              Photoinitiator (2,2-Dimethoxy-2-penylacetophenone) - 5 mg
              H 2 0 - 50 pL
[00306]       Photonic polymer formation is shown in Figure 29B, employing the
following steps:
              Infiltration of monomer mixture throughout interstitial space of colloidal
              crystal array
              Photopolymerisation of monomer solution
              Polystyrene removal in xylene, followed by washing in acetonitrile
              Polymer hydrated in H2 0 and transferred to Smith & Nephew transparent
              bandage
              Polymer was transferred by fully hydrating the polymer at pH 2, which
              resulted in polymer delaminating from glass substrate
              Excess water was removed and the polymer was then transferred to the
              adhesive side of a Smith & Nephew transparent bandage by bringing the
              bandage into contact with the polymer
              A typical optical reflectance is shown in Figure 29C. A photograph of the

                                             53
             photonic polymer at low pH Polymer was transferred by fully hydrating the
             polymer at pH 2, which resulted in polymer delaminating from glass
             substrate
             Excess water was removed and the polymer was then transferred to the
             adhesive side of a Smith & Nephew transparent bandage by bringing the
             bandage into contact with the polymer
[00307]      Figure 31A shows measurements of reflected photonic spectra at different
pH from the photonic polymer incorporated into Smith & Nephew transparent bandage.
Figure 31B shows the shift in photonic peak with changing pH.
[00308]      Figures 32A and B show the photonic polymer integrated into wound
dressing. In this case the polymer is sealed between two dressings to demonstrate the
observable colour of the polymer. Figure 32C, D and E shows the photonic polymer
integrated into wound dressing, applied to healthy skin (C) and two chronic wounds (D,
E). In each case the polymer is displaying a red colour, indicating pH above 6.8. Data
(not shown) demonstrates that the photonic polymer/wound dressing hybrids display a
change in colour from green at low pH (4) to red at high pH (7.4).
EXAMPLE 25 - Dip Sensor
[00309] Photonic porous silicon preparation:
[00310] Porous silicon films were prepared from single-crystal p-type silicon (boron
doped, 0.0005-0.0011     Q.cm resistivity, <100> orientation) at a modulated current
density with a sine wave (between 11.36 and 28.4 mA. cm-2 , 19.9 s periodicity) for
415.5 s in a solution of 24 % of aqueous hydrofluoric acid (HF, 48%) diluted in
absolute ethanol, to produce a rugate filter. This nanostructure acts as a filter, reflecting
the light at a precise wavelength that can be easily tuned.
[00311] For the formation of the porous silicon membrane, the resulting porous layer
was then lifted off by electropolishing, in a solution of 5% of aqueous HF diluted in
absolute ethanol for 60 s at a current density of 7 mA.cm-2 .
[00312] The porous silicon membrane was then modified with thermoresponsive
polymer using the protocol described by S. Pace, R.B. Vasani, F. Cunin, N.H. Voelcker,
Study of the Optical Properties of Thermoresponsive Polymer Grafted from Porous

                                           54
silicon Scaffolds, New Journal of Chemistry, 37 (2013), 228-235.
[00313] Combination of the optical fibre with a membrane of polymer-porous silicon
and study of the response to pH or temperature:
[00314] The optical fibre was first cleaved in order to obtain a flat tip. Then the tip of
optical fibre was immersed quickly on epoxy glue (Araldite@ Rapid 24ml syringe), and
let dry for 5 min, before being combine with the polymer-porous silicon membrane.
[00315] Figure 33A shows a SEM image of an optical fibre coupled to a porous silicon
membrane.
[00316]      Once the polymer-porous silicon membrane was attached to the optical
fibre, a simple setup was built to enable the remote analysis of the porous silicon
polymer system optical properties as shown in Figure 33B.
[00317]      Figure 33B shows a schematic of the optical setup of the dip sensor for the
analysis of interferometry of porous silicon. The schematic shows the typical setup
employed in this work for biosensing, highlighting the interactions at the tip of the
optical fibre. Right hand side cartoon shows the interaction between light and the
porous silicon modified with the responsive polymer at the tip of the optical fibre.
[00318]      White light was coupled into one side of the optical fibre, and the light
reflected from the porous silicon-polymer system was split from the incoming light by a
50:50 beam splitter and focused into a patch cable to be fed into a spectrometer. The
position of the reflectance peak was monitored during the immersion of the fibre-porous
silicon-polymer system into buffer or wound fluid at different pH or temperature.
[00319] The response of the porous silicon membrane modified with the p(DEAEMA)
coupled to the optical fibre upon exposure to citric buffer at different pH was tested. A
porous silicon membrane functionalized with the initiator (BiBAPTES) was employed
as a control At pH 7.4, a decrease in the variation of the wavelength was observed for
the control, and which can be explained by a degradation of the sample; this
phenomenon being even more pronounced in acidic conditions. The degradation of the
sample causes a change of refractive index inside the porous matrix. A conspicuous
shift (about 0.4 %) was consistently observed on the fibre-pSi-p(DEAEMA) sample,
when the pH changed from 7.4 to 3.4. The red shift observed when the pH decreased, is

                                            55
caused by the swelling of brushed polymer at this pH. A larger response was observed
when the samples were exposed to the human wound fluid at neutral pH and at acidic
pH.
[00320] The same experiment was performed with the p(M(EO)2MA-co-OEOMA)
modified porous silicon membrane, by varying the temperature of the environment
(water or wound fluid) from 25 C to 45C. In the both cases a decrease of variation of
the wavelength was observed. For the control, this variation in wavelength can be
attributed to the small change of refractive index of water (about 0.16%) on heating
between 25 'C to 45 'C. A conspicuous shift (about 0.24 %) was observed on the fibre
pSi-p(M(EO)2MA-co-OEOMA) sample, when the temperature changed from 25C to
45   C. The blue shift observed when the temperature increased, corresponding to a
decrease of the effective refractive index inside the porous matrix, caused by a collapse
of p(M(EO)2MA-co-OEOMA) at this temperature.
[00321] Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the
range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into
the specification as if it were individually recited herein. Where a specific range of
values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to the tenth of the unit
of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between the upper and
lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range, is
included therein. All smaller sub ranges are also included. The upper and lower limits of
these smaller ranges are also included therein, subject to any specifically excluded limit
in the stated range.
[00322]      The term "about" or "approximately" means an acceptable error for a
particular value, which depends in part on how the value is measured or determined. In
certain embodiments, "about" can mean 1 or more standard deviations.             When the
antecedent term "about" is applied to a recited range or value it denotes an
approximation within the deviation in the range or value known or expected in the art
from the measurements method. For removal of doubt, it shall be understood that any
range stated herein that does not specifically recite the term "about" before the range or
before any value within the stated range inherently includes such term to encompass the
approximation within the deviation noted above.

                                             56
[00323]      Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood
to imply the inclusion of a stated element or integer or group of elements or integers but
not the exclusion of any other element or integer or group of elements or integers.
[00324]      As used herein, the singular forms "a". "an" and "the" include plural aspects
unless the context already dictates otherwise.
[00325]      All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless
indicated otherwise herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all
examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely
to better illuminate the example embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the
scope of the claimed invention unless otherwise claimed.             No language in the
specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential.
[00326]      The description provided herein is in relation to several embodiments which
may share common characteristics and features. It is to be understood that one or more
features of one embodiment may be combinable with one or more features of the other
embodiments.     In addition,   a single feature or combination of features of the
embodiments may constitute additional embodiments.
[00327]      The subject headings used herein are included only for the ease of reference
of the reader and should not be used to limit the subject matter found throughout the
disclosure or the claims. The subject headings should not be used in construing the
scope of the claims or the claim limitations.
[00328]      Future patent applications may be filed on the basis of the present
application, for example by claiming priority from the present application, by claiming
a divisional status and/or by claiming a continuation status. It is to be understood that
the following claims are provided by way of example only, and are not intended to limit
the scope of what may be claimed in any such future application. Nor should the claims
be considered to limit the understanding of (or exclude other understandings of) the
present disclosure. Features may be added to or omitted from the example claims at a
later date.

                                            57
[00329]     Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to
particular examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the disclosure may
be embodied in many other forms.

                                               58
CLAIMS
 1.       A substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate.
2.        The substrate according to claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises one or
more of silicon, gold, silver, aluminium, a polymer and a glass.
3.        The substrate according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the substrate comprises a
silicon substrate.
4.        The substrate according to claim 3, wherein the silicon substrate comprises one
or more of a flat silicon substrate, a silicon membrane and silicon particles.
5.        The substrate according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the substrate comprises a
photonic polymer.
6.        The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the substrate
comprises a thermoresponsive property and/or a pH responsive property.
7.        The substrate according to claim 6, wherein the thermoresponsive property
comprises a thermoresponsive property between 25'C and 50'C.
8.        The substrate according to claim 6, wherein the pH responsive property
comprises a pH responsive property between pH 2.6 and pH 9.6.
9.        The substrate according to any one of claims 6 or 8, wherein the pH responsive
property comprises a pH responsive property with a sensitivity of at least 0.5 pH units.
 10.      The substrate according       to   any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein the
thermoresponsive property and/or the pH responsive property comprise a change in
optical reflective characteristics.
 11.      The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the stimulus
responsive polymer comprises a co-polymer.

                                          59
 12.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the stimulus
responsive polymer comprises a cross-linked polymer and/or a non-cross linked
polymer.
 13.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the stimulus
responsive polymer comprises one or more of a polyacrylate polymer, a polyacrylamide
polymer and a polyvinyl polymer.
 14.     The substrate according to claim 13, wherein the polyacrylate polymer
comprises a polymethylacrylate polymer.
 15.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the stimulus
responsive polymer is produced by a method comprising one or more of plasma
polymerisation, atom transfer radical polymerisation, reversible addition-fragmentation
chain transfer polymerisation, photo polymerisation, free radical polymerisation, spin
coating or dip-coating.
 16.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the stimulus
responsive polymer is produced by a method comprising plasma and/or photo
polymerisation.
 17.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the substrate
comprises a stimulus response polymer with a thickness of 1 mm or less.
 18.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the substrate
further comprises a non-stimulus responsive polymer.
 19.     The substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the substrate
comprises a porous substrate.
20.      The substrate according to claim 19, wherein pores of the porous substrate are
coated with a non-stimulus responsive polymer.

                                            60
21.       The substrate according to claims 19 or 20, wherein the porous substrate
comprises a releasable agent.
22.       The substrate according to claim 21, wherein release of the releasable agent is
stimulus responsive.
23.       The substrate according to claim 22, wherein the release of the releasable agent
is thermoresponsive and/or pH responsive.
24.       The substrate according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the substrate
comprises stimulus responsive sensing of a parameter and stimulus responsive release
of the releasable agent.
25.       The substrate according to any one of claims 21 to 24, wherein the releasable
agent comprises a therapeutic agent.
26.       The substrate according to claim 25, wherein the therapeutic agent comprises
one or more of a drug, a small molecule, a biologic, an antibody, a polypeptide, an
enzyme, a growth factor, a nucleic acid, a wound healing agent, and an anti-bacterial
agent.
27.       A material comprising a substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 22.
28.       The material according to claim 27, wherein the material comprises particles
comprising the substrate.
29.       The material according to claim 27, wherein the material comprises a
membrane comprising the substrate.
30.       The material according to claim 27, wherein the material comprises a flat
substrate or a film comprising the substrate.
31.       A sensor comprising a substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 26.

                                            61
32.       A sensor according to claim 31, wherein the sensor provides qualitative and/or
quantitative sensing.
33.       A cell culture vessel comprising a substrate according to any one of claims I to
26.
34.       A wound dressing or bandage comprising a substrate according to any one of
claims 1 to 26.
35.       An implantable article comprising a substrate according to any one of claims 1
to 26.
36.       A method of sensing temperature and/or pH, the method comprising using a
substrate according to any one of claims 1 to 26 to sense the temperature and/or pH.
37.       A method of sensing a parameter, the method comprising using a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate to sense the
parameter.
38.       The method according to claim 37 wherein the substrate comprises one or more
of silicon, gold, silver, aluminium, a polymer and a glass.
39.       The method according to claims 37 or 38, wherein the substrate comprises a
silicon substrate.
40.       The method substrate according to claim 39, wherein the silicon substrate
comprises one or more of a flat silicon substrate, a silicon membrane, a porous silicon
substrate and silicon particles.
41.       The method according to claims 37 or 38, wherein the substrate comprises a
photonic polymer.
42.       The method according to any one of claims 37 to 41, wherein the parameter
comprises temperature and/or pH.

                                            62
43.     The method according to claim 42, wherein the polymer comprises               a
thermoresponsive and/or pH responsive polymer.
44.     The method according to any one of claims 37 to 43, wherein the method
comprises sensing the parameter at a non-biological site.
45.     The method according to any one of claims 37 to 43, wherein the method
comprises sensing the parameter at a biological site.
46.     The method according to claim 45, wherein the biological site comprises a
wound.
47.     A method of delivering a releasable agent to a site, the method comprising:
        providing a substrate comprising a releasable agent according to any one of
        claims 21 to 26 to the site; and
        releasing the releasable agent from the substrate in response to a stimulus,
        thereby delivering the releasable agent to the site.
48.     A method of delivering a releasable agent to a site, the method comprising:
        providing to the site a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer
        attached to the substrate and a releasable agent; and
        releasing the releasable agent from the substrate in response to a stimulus,
        thereby delivering the releasable agent to the site.
49.     A therapeutic composition comprising a porous substrate comprising:
           (i) a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the porous substrate; and
           (ii) a therapeutic agent loaded onto the porous substrate.
50.     A method of therapy, the method comprising exposing a subject to the
        therapeutic composition according to claim 49.
51.     Use of a substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer in the preparation
        of a medicament.

                                            63
52.      A method of producing a stimulus responsive material, the method comprising:
            functionalising a surface of a substrate; and
            forming a polymer on the functionalised surface, wherein the polymer
            comprises a stimulus responsive property.
53.      A stimulus responsive material produced according to the method of claim 52.
54.      An article for delivering a therapeutic agent and sensing a parameter, the article
comprising substrate comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate
and a releasable therapeutic agent.
55.      A drug delivery and sensing device, the device comprising a substrate
comprising a stimulus responsive polymer attached to the substrate and a releasable
drug.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1
                                1/33

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                2/33
Fig. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3                          3/33

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4
                                4/33

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 5                          5/33

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 6                          6/33

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 7                          7/33

<removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                          8/33
       Fig. 8

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 9                          9/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 10                          10/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 11/33
Fig. 11

                                       12/33
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Colour: Turquoise   Colour: Purple   Colour: Blue
                                    Fig. 12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 13/33
Fig. 13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 14                          14/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 15                          15/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16/33
Fig. 16

    <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
B              A
                             17/33
     Fig. 17

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 18/33
Fig. 18

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 19/33
Fig. 19

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 20                          20/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 21/33
Fig. 21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 22                          22/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 23/33
Fig. 23

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 24/33
Fig. 24

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 25                          25/33

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 26/33
Fig. 26

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 27/33
Fig. 27

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
B                          A
                                     28/33
    Fig. 28

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    B                 A
                                    29/33
C
                          Fig. 29

                                     30/33
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Colour: Green/Yellow           Colour: Red/Green
                                 Fig. 30

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
B                          A
                 pH 2
                                     31/33
    Fig. 31

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
C                              A
D
                                     32/33
                               B
    Fig. 32
E

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 33/33
Fig. 33

