                                   Abstract of the Disclosure
        The disclosure relates to a cotton variety, designated PHY764WRF, the plants and
seeds of the cotton variety PHY764WRF, methods for producing a cotton plant, either
varietal or hybrid, produced by crossing the cotton variety PHY764WRF with itself or with
another cotton plant, hybrid cotton seeds and plants produced by crossing the variety
PHY764WRF with another cotton variety or plan, methods for producing a cotton plant
containing in its genetic material one or more transgenes, and the transgenic cotton plants
produced by that method. This disclosure also relates to cotton varieties derived from cotton
variety PHY764WRF, to methods for producing other cotton varieties derived from cotton
variety PHY764WRF, and to the varieties derived by the use of those methods.

                                                                                          P100/01i1
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                      Patents Act 1990
                 COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                      STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:        Cotton variety PHY764WRF
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to us:

                              COTTON VARIETY PHY764WRF
        This application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn> and claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Application No. 62/278,044 which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office on January 13, 2016, the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by
reference.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        [0001] This invention is in the field of cotton breeding.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        [0002] Cotton (Gossypium spp.) is the world's most important textile fiber crop and is
one of the world's most important oilseed crops. Cotton plants provide a source of human
food, livestock feed, and raw material in industry. Cotton seed is pressed for cooking oil and
the residual cottonseed oil meal is used for animal feed. Industrial uses of cotton include
candle wicks, twine, paper and a multitude of fabric products.
        [0003] The genus Gossypium is very large, currently containing more than 50 species.
Two tetraploid species of Gossypium have spinnable seed fibers called lint. These two
species are G. hirsutum (referred to as American Upland or Acala cotton) and G. barbadense
(referred to as Pima cotton).
        [0004] The goal of a cotton breeder is to improve a cotton plant's performance and
therefore, its economic value by combining various desirable traits into a single plant.
Improved performance is manifested in many ways. Higher yields of cotton plants contribute
to increased lint fiber production, more profitable agriculture and lower cost of products for
the consumer. Improved plant health increases the yield and quality of the plant and reduces
the need for application of protective chemicals. Adapting cotton plants to a wider range of
production areas achieves improved yield and vegetative growth. Improved plant uniformity
enhances the farmer's ability to mechanically harvest cotton.
        [0005] Cotton is a dicot plant with perfect flowers, i.e., cotton has male, pollen
producing organs and separate female, pollen receiving organs on the same flower. The
cultivated cotton flower is surrounded by three triangular bracts forming what is commonly
known as squares. The flower contains an open corolla with five petals, a staminal column
bearing clusters of stamens and forming a tube that encloses the style. The compound pistil
consists of three to five carpels with stigmas protruding above the anthers. The ovary

develops into a three- to five-loculed capsule or boll. From seven to nine seeds are set within
each lock or locule. On the day preceding anthesis, a twisted corolla emerges from the
square. On the day of anthesis, the corolla opens and pollen shedding occurs. The corolla
turns red the day following anthesis and later falls from the plant. Pollination occurs with
the opening of the anthers and shedding of pollen on the stigma or with the deposit of pollen
on the stigma by insects.
          [0006] Because cotton has both male and female organs on the same flower, cotton
breeding techniques take advantage of the plant's ability to be bred by both self-pollination
and cross-pollination. Self-pollination occurs when pollen from the male organ is transferred
to a female organ on the same flower on the same plant. Self-incompatibility is a form of
infertility caused by the failure of cotton plants with normal pollen and ovules to set seed due
to some physiological hindrance that prevents fertilization. Self-incompatibility restricts self
pollination and inbreeding and fosters cross-pollination. Cross-pollination occurs when
pollen from the male organ on the flower of one plant is transferred to a female organ on the
flower on a different plant.
          [0007] A plant is sib-pollinated (a type of cross-pollination) when individuals within
the same family or line are used for pollination (i.e. pollen from a family member plant is
transferred to the stigmas of another family member plant). Self-pollination and sib
pollination techniques are traditional forms of inbreeding used to develop new cotton
varieties, but other techniques exist to accomplish inbreeding. New cotton varieties are
developed by inbreeding heterozygous plants and practicing selection for superior plants for
several generations until substantially homozygous plants are obtained. During the
inbreeding process with cotton, the vigor of the lines decreases and after a sufficient amount
of inbreeding, additional inbreeding merely serves to increase seed of the developed variety.
Cotton varieties are typically developed for use in the production of hybrid cotton lines.
          [0008] Natural, or open pollination, occurs in cotton when bees or other insects
transfer pollen from the anthers to the stigmas and can include both self- and cross
pollination. Such pollination is accomplished almost entirely by the bees or other pollinating
insects as the pollen is heavy and sticky and accordingly, interplant transfer of pollen by the
wind is of little importance. Vigor is restored when two different varieties are cross
pollinated to produce the first generation (F1) progeny. A cross between two defined
substantially homozygous cotton plant varieties always produces a uniform population of

heterozygous hybrid cotton plants and such hybrid cotton plants are capable of being
generated indefinitely from the corresponding variety cotton seed supply.
        [0009] When two different, unrelated cotton parent plant varieties are crossed to
produce an F1 hybrid, one parent variety is designated as the male, or pollen parent, and the
other parent variety is designated as the female, or seed parent. Because cotton plants are
capable of self-pollination, hybrid seed production requires elimination of or inactivation of
pollen produced by the female parent to render the female parent plant male sterile. This
serves to prevent the cotton plant variety designated as the female from self-pollinating.
Different options exist for controlling male fertility in cotton plants such as physical
emasculation, genetic male sterility, cytoplasmic male sterility and application of
gametocides. Incomplete removal of male parent plants from a hybrid seed production field
before harvest provides the potential for unwanted production of self-pollinated or sib
pollinated seed, which can be unintentionally harvested and packaged with hybrid seed.
        [0010] The development of new cotton plant varieties and hybrid cotton plants is a
slow, costly interrelated process that requires the expertise of breeders and many other
specialists. The development of new varieties and hybrid cotton plants in a cotton plant
breeding program involves numerous steps, including: (1) selection of parent cotton plants
(germplasm) for initial breeding crosses; (2) inbreeding of the selected plants from the
breeding crosses for several generations to produce a series of varieties, which individually
breed true and are highly uniform; and (3) crossing a selected variety with an unrelated
variety to produce the F1 hybrid progeny having restored vigor.
        [0011] Cotton plant varieties and other sources of cotton germplasm are the
foundation material for all cotton breeding programs. Despite the existence and availability
of numerous cotton varieties and other source germplasm, a continuing need still exists for
the development of improved germplasm because existing parent cotton varieties lose their
commercial competitiveness over time. Embodiments of the present disclosure addresses this
need by providing a novel cotton inbred variety designated PHY764WRF that possesses
broad adaptation and excellent yield stability in the full-maturity cotton growing regions of
the US; excellent fiber properties such as micronaire, length, strength (g/tex), and fiber
uniformity; the WideStrike® transgenic events (Cry1F and CrylAc from Bacillus
thuringiensis) for resistance to Lepidoptera insects; and the Roundup Ready® Flex transgenic
event for tolerance to glyphosate herbicide. PHY764WRF contributes such characteristics to
                                              4

hybrids relative to other similar hybrids in the same maturity groups. To protect and to
enhance yield production, trait technologies and seed treatment options provide additional
crop plan flexibility and cost effective control against insects, weeds and diseases, thereby
further enhancing the potential of this variety and hybrids with PHY764WRF as a parent.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0012] Embodiments of this disclosure relate to a cotton variety designated
PHY764WRF that includes plants and seeds of cotton variety PHY764WRF. Further
embodiments relate to lint having novel characteristics whether or not produced by the
claimed cotton variety. Methods for producing cotton plants, such as cotton plant varieties,
hybrid cotton plants, or other cotton plants, as by crossing cotton variety PHY764WRF with
itself or any different cotton plant are an integral part of certain embodiments, as are the
resultant cotton plants including the plant parts and seeds. Other embodiments relate to
methods for producing PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants, to methods for producing male
sterile PHY764WRF cotton plants, e.g., cytoplasmic male sterile PHY764WRF cotton plants
and to methods for regenerating such plants from tissue cultures of regenerable cells as well
as the plants obtained therefrom. Methods for producing a cotton plant containing in its
genetic material one or more transgenes, and the transgenic cotton plants produced by that
method, are also a part of further embodiments.
         [0013] In one embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a seed of the cotton
variety designated PHY764WRF, or a part thereof, representative seed of the variety having
been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543. In a further aspect, the disclosure
relates to a part of this seed, selected from the group consisting of hull (seedcoat), germ and
endosperm. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this seed, further comprising a
coating. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a substantially homogenous composition
of this seed.
         [0014] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a seed of a cotton plant, comprising: (a) planting seed of the cotton variety
designated PHY764WRF in proximity to itself or to different seed from a same variety; (b)
growing plants from the seed under pollinating conditions; and (c) harvesting the resultant
seed. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a cotton seed produced by this method. In a
further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, further comprising pre-treating the seed

before performing step (a). In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, further
comprising treating the growing plants or soil surrounding the growing plants with an
agricultural chemical.
         [0015] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to a part of this cotton plant, selected from the group consisting
of an intact plant cell, a plant protoplast, embryos, pollen, flowers, seeds, linters, fibers, pods,
gossypol glands, leaves, bolls, stems, roots, root tips, and anthers. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to fibers of this plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to staples of
this plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a cotton plant, or a part thereof, having
all the physiological and morphological characteristics of this cotton plant. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to a substantially homogenous population of these cotton plants.
In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this substantially homogenous population of
cotton plants, wherein the population is present in a field and the field further comprises
other, different cotton plants.
         [0016] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a cotton plant, comprising: (a) crossing cotton variety plant PHY764WRF,
representative seed of the cultivar having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA
122543, with another different cotton plant to yield progeny cotton seed. In a further aspect,
the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the other, different cotton plant is a cotton
variety. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, further comprising: (b)
growing the progeny cotton seed from step (a) under self-pollinating or sib-pollinating
conditions for about 5 to about 7 generations; and (c) harvesting resultant seed. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, further comprising selecting plants obtained
from growing at least one generation of the progeny cotton seed for a desirable trait.
         [0017] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method of
introducing a desired trait into cotton variety PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety
having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, comprising: (a) crossing
PHY764WRF plants with plants of another cotton variety that comprise a desired trait to
produce F1 progeny plants; (b) selecting F1 progeny plants that have the desired trait; (c)
crossing selected progeny plants with PHY764WRF plants to produce backcross progeny
plants; (d) selecting for backcross progeny plants that comprise the desired trait and

physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton variety PHY764WRF; and (e)
performing steps (c) and (d) one or more times in succession to produce the selected or higher
backcross progeny plants that comprise the desired trait and all of the physiological and
morphological characteristics of cotton variety PHY764WRF listed in Table 1 as determined
at the 5% significance level when grown in the same environmental conditions. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the plants of the other cotton variety
comprise a desired trait selected from the group consisting of male sterility, drought
tolerance, herbicide resistance, insect resistance, and resistance to bacterial, fungal and viral
disease. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, further comprising using
direct or indirect selection to determine whether the desired trait is present in a progeny plant.
         [0018] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a cotton plant, comprising: (a) crossing a cotton plant produced by growing a seed
of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF with another different cotton plant to produce
a diploid or progeny plant; (b) generating a haploid progeny plant from the diploid progeny
plant; (c) generating a diploid plant from the haploid progeny plant; and (d) selecting the
diploid cotton plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the
haploid progeny plant is generated by culturing a haploid explant from the diploid progeny
plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the haploid progeny
plant is generated by crossing the progeny plant with another, different plant that induces
haploid cotton plants. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the
other, different plant is a cotton plant that comprises a haploid-inducing gene. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the diploid plant of step (c) is generated
by subjecting the haploid progeny plant to a treatment that induces chromosome doubling in
the cultured explant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the
diploid plant of step (c) is generated by self-pollinating the haploid progeny plant.
         [0019] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a cotton plant, comprising: (a) inducing a mutation in a cotton plant produced by
growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, or a part thereof; and, (b)
selecting mutated cotton plants. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method,
wherein the mutation is artificially induced by a method selected from the group consisting of
elevated temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue culture conditions, radiation, and
chemical mutagenesis.
                                                7

         [0020] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a cotton plant variety, comprising: (a) growing first generation hybrid cotton plants
having PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been deposited under ATCC
Accession No. PTA-122543, as a parent cotton plant; (b) inbreeding the first generation
hybrid cotton plants or crossing the first generation hybrid cotton plants with different cotton
plants to yield progeny cotton seed; (c) growing the progeny cotton seed of step (b) to yield
further progeny cotton seed; (d) repeating the inbreeding or the crossing and the growing
steps of (b) and (c) from about 0 to about 7 times to generate cotton varietal plants. In a
further aspect, the disclosure relates to a cotton plant variety produced by this method.
         [0021] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing cotton variety PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been
deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, comprising: (a) planting a collection of
seed comprising seed of a hybrid, one of whose parents is PHY764WRF, the collection also
comprising seed of the variety PHY764WRF; (b) growing plants from the collection of seed;
(c) identifying a varietal parent plant; (d) controlling pollination in a manner that preserves
the homozygosity of the varietal parent plant; and, (e) harvesting the resultant seed from the
identified varietal parent plant which was pollinated to preserve its homozygosity. In a
further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein step (c) comprises identifying
plants with decreased vigor. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a method for
producing a varietal cotton plant comprising: sib-pollinating plants obtained by growing the
harvested resultant seed of step (e) of this method. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates
to a method for producing a varietal cotton plant comprising: crossing PHY764WRF cotton
plants with cotton plants obtained by growing the hybrid seed of step (a) of this method.
         [0022] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising crossing a first varietal parent cotton plant with a
second varietal parent cotton plant and harvesting resultant hybrid cotton seed, wherein the
first varietal cotton plant or the second varietal cotton plant is a cotton plant produced by
growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF.
         [0023] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising the steps of: (a) planting in pollinating proximity
seeds of a first and a second varietal parent cotton plants, wherein the first varietal cotton
plant or the second varietal cotton plant is a cotton plant produced by growing a seed of the

cotton variety designated PHY764WRF; (b) cultivating the seeds of the first and the second
varietal cotton plants into plants that bear flowers; (c) controlling the male fertility of the first
or the second varietal cotton plant to produce a male sterile cotton plant; (d) allowing cross
pollination to occur between the first and second varietal cotton plants; and, (e) harvesting
seeds produced on the male sterile cotton plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to
this method, wherein the varietal cotton plant that is the cotton plant produced by growing a
seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF is a female parent. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to this method, wherein the varietal cotton plant that is the cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF is a male parent.
In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a hybrid cotton seed produced by this method. In
a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a hybrid cotton plant, or parts thereof, producing by
growing this hybrid cotton seed. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a tissue culture
of regenerable cells from this hybrid cotton plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to
a cotton seed obtained by growing the hybrid cotton seed produced by this method and
harvesting the resultant cotton seed from produced plants.
         [0024] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising crossing a first varietal parent cotton plant with a
second varietal parent cotton plant and harvesting the resultant hybrid cotton seed, wherein
the first varietal cotton plant or the second varietal cotton plant is a progeny plant of a cross
of the cotton plant produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF
and another varietal cotton plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a hybrid cotton
seed produced by this method. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a hybrid cotton
plant, or a part thereof, produced by growing this hybrid cotton seed. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to a cotton seed produced by growing this hybrid cotton plant and
harvesting the resultant cotton seed.
         [0025] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to an F1 hybrid seed
produced by crossing the varietal cotton plant produced by growing a seed of the cotton
variety designated PHY764WRF with another, different cotton plant. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to a hybrid cotton plant, or a part thereof, produced by growing this hybrid
cotton seed. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this hybrid cotton seed, wherein the
other, different plant is not a member of the hirsutum species. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to this hybrid cotton seed, wherein the other, different plant is a member of
                                                0

the barbadensespecies. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this hybrid cotton seed,
wherein the other, different plant is a member of a genus Gossypium. In a further aspect, the
disclosure relates to this hybrid cotton seed, wherein the other, different plant is a member of
the family Malvaceae.
         [0026] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant, comprising: (a) crossing cotton variety
PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been deposited under ATCC
Accession No. PTA-122543, with a second cotton plant to yield progeny cotton seed; and (b)
growing said progeny cotton seed, under plant growth conditions, to yield the PHY764WRF
derived cotton plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a PHY764WRF-derived
cotton plant, or a part thereof, produced by this method. In a further aspect, the disclosure
relates to this method, further comprising: (c) crossing the PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant
with itself or another cotton plant to yield additional PHY764WRF-derived progeny cotton
seed; (d) growing the progeny cotton seed of step (c) under plant growth conditions, to yield
additional PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants; and (e) repeating the crossing and growing
steps of (c) and (d) from 0 to 7 times to generate further PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants.
In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, still further comprising utilizing
plant tissue culture methods and/or haploid breeding to derive progeny of the PHY764WRF
derived cotton plant.
         [0027] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a tissue culture of
regenerable cells from the cotton plant produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety
designated PHY764WRF. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this tissue culture, the
cells or protoplasts of the tissue culture being from a tissue selected from the group consisting
of embryos, pollen, flowers, seeds, linters, fibers, pods, gossypol glands, leaves, bolls, stems,
roots, root tips, and anthers. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a cotton plant
regenerated from this tissue culture, wherein the regenerated plant expresses all the
morphological and physiological characteristics of variety PHY764WRF.
         [0028] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant with all
of the physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton variety PHY764WRF,
wherein the cotton plant is produced by a tissue culture process using the cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF as a starting
material for the process.
                                                10n

         [0029] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
regenerating a cotton plant comprising the steps of: (a) culturing an explant comprising a
tissue selected from the group consisting of a tissue obtained from cotton plant variety
PHY764WRF, representative seed having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA
122543, an immature tissue obtained from a hybrid cotton plant having PHY764WRF as a
parent, and a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant; and, (b) initiating regeneration. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this method, wherein the explant is an immature tissue.
         [0030] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, wherein the
PHY764WRF plant is rendered male sterile. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this
cotton plant, wherein the male sterile PHY764WRF plant is a cytoplasmic male sterile plant.
         [0031] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a male sterile PHY764WRF cotton plant, comprising: (a) crossing a varietal cotton
plant produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, with a
cytoplasmic male sterile cotton plant that generates haploids; (b) identifying haploid plants;
and, (c) crossing the haploid plants with the varietal cotton plant PHY764WRF to produce
male sterile PHY764WRF cotton plants.
         [0032] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant, or a
part thereof, produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF,
wherein the plant or part thereof has been transformed so that its genetic material contains
one or more transgenes operably linked to one or more regulatory elements. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to a method for producing a cotton plant that contains in its
genetic material one or more transgenes, comprising crossing this cotton plant with either a
second plant of another cotton variety, or a non-transformed cotton plant of the variety
PHY764WRF, so that the genetic material of the progeny that result from the cross contains
the transgene(s) operably linked to a regulatory element. In a further aspect, the disclosure
relates to a cotton plant, or a part thereof, produced by this method.
         [0033] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, or a part thereof,
further comprising one or more transgenes. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to a
seed of this plant. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this cotton plant, wherein the
one or more transgenes comprise a gene conferring upon said cotton plant insect resistance,
                                                11

disease resistance or virus resistance. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates to this cotton
plant, wherein the gene conferring upon the cotton plant insect resistance is a Bacillus
thuringiensis gene.
         [0034] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a cotton plant
produced by growing a seed of the cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, or a part thereof,
wherein the plant or a parts thereof has been transformed so that its genetic material contains
one or more transgenes operably linked to one or more regulatory elements. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this cotton plant, wherein the one or more transgenes
comprise a gene conferring upon the cotton plant tolerance to an herbicide. In a further
aspect, the disclosure relates to this cotton plant, wherein the herbicide is glyphosate,
glufosinate, a phenoxy, a sulfonylurea or an imidazolinone herbicide, a
hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase inhibitor or a protoporphyrinogen oxidase inhibitor.
         [0035] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to a method for
producing a population of PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants comprising: (a) obtaining a
first generation progeny cotton seed from a plant produced by growing a seed of the cotton
variety designated PHY764WRF as a parent; (b) growing the first generation progeny cotton
seed to produce F1 generation cotton plants and obtaining self or sib pollinated seed from the
F1 generation cotton plants; and (c) producing successive filial generations to obtain a
population of PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants. In a further aspect, the disclosure relates
to the population of PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants produced by this method, the
population, on average, deriving 50% of its alleles from PHY764WRF.
         [0036] In another embodiment, the present disclosure relates to lint having
substantially the same characteristics of the lint produced by cotton variety designated
PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been deposited under ATCC
Accession No. PTA-122543.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
I. Definitions of Plant Characteristics
         [0037] In the description and examples that follow, a number of terms are used. To
provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims, including the
scope to be given such terms, the following definitions are provided.
                                               12?

         [0038] Alternaria macrospora: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to Alternaria leaf spot (Alternariamacrospora)rated as O=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0039] Anthracnose: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Anthrancnose (Colletotrichum spp.) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0040] Area(s) of Adaptation: This represents whether the cotton plant is adapted
(A), not adapted (NA) or not tested (NT) for the following areas: Eastern, Delta, Central,
Blacklands, Plains, Western, Arizona, and San Joaquin Valley.
         [0041] Ascochyta Blight: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Ascochyta blight (Ascochyta gossypii) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0042] Bacterial Blight (Race 1): This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to bacterial blight (race 1) (Xanthomonas malvacearum) rated as O=not
tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0043] Bacterial Blight (Race 2): This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to bacterial blight (race 2) (Xanthomonas malvacearum) rated as O=not
tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0044] Boll Breadth: This represents a comparison of the boll width at its middle and
its base rated as broadest at base, or broadest at middle.
         [0045] Boll Shape: This represents the shape of the boll rated as length less than
width, length equal to width, or length more than width.
         [0046] Boll Type: This represents the boll type rated as stormproof, storm resistant,
or open.
         [0047] Boll Weevil: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Boll Weevil (Anthonomous grandis)rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible, or
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0048] Bollworm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Bollworm (Helicoverpazea) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately
susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0049] Calyx Lobe: This represents the gossypol gland density on the calyx lobe
rated as absent (normal), sparse, or more than normal.

         [0050] Cotton Aphid: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Cotton Aphid (Aphis gossypii) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0051] Cotton Fleahopper: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to Cotton Fleahopper (Pseudatomoscellisseriatus)rated as O=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0052] Cotton Leafworm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to Cotton Leafworm (Alabama argillacea)rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0053] Cutworm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Cutworm (Agrotis ipsilon) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately
susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0054] Days to 50% Open Bolls: This represents the number of days from planting
until which 50% of the bolls of a plant are open.
         [0055] Diplodia Boll Rot: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to Diplodia boll rot (Diplodiagossypina) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0056] Distance to 1st Fruiting Branch: This represents the distance from the
cotyledonary node to the first fruiting branch in centimeters.
         [0057] Fall Armyworm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Fall Armyworm (Spodopterafrugiperda)rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0058] Fiber Elongation: This represents the amount that a fiber sample will stretch
before breakage and is a measure of the deformation of the cotton fiber at rupture expressed
as percent change in length based on the original fiber length as measured by HVI.
         [0059] Fiber Fineness: This represents a relative measure of size, diameter, linear
density or weight per unit length expressed in terms of millitex or milligrams per tex unit.
         [0060] Fiber Length: This represents fiber length expressed in hundredths of an inch
as measured by High Volume Instrumentation (HVI).
         [0061] Fiber Micronaire: This represents a measure of the fineness of the fiber.
Within a cotton cultivar, micronaire is also a measure of maturity. Micronaire differences are
governed by changes in perimeter or in cell wall thickness, or by changes in both. Within a
                                             14A

variety, cotton perimeter is fairly constant and maturity will cause a change in micronaire.
Consequently, micronaire has a high correlation with maturity within a variety of cotton.
Maturity is the degree of development of cell wall thickness. Micronaire often does not have
a good correlation with maturity between varieties of cotton having different fiber perimeter.
Micronaire values range from about 2.0 to 6.0 and have the following meanings: below 2.9
very fine possible small perimeter but mature (good fiber), or large perimeter but immature
(bad fiber); from 2.9 to 3.7 fine various degrees of maturity and/or perimeter; 3.8 to 4.6
average degree of maturity and/or perimeter; 4.7 to 5.5 coarse usually fully developed
(mature), but larger perimeter; and 5.6 or greater very coarse fully developed, large
perimeter fiber.
        [0062] Fiber Strength: This represents the force required to rupture or to break a
bundle of fibers as measured in grams per tex on the HVI.
        [0063] Fiber Uniformity: This represents the uniformity of fiber length in a sample
as measured on the HVI, expressed as a percentage.
        [0064] Fiber Yarn Tenacity: This represents the strength of a single strand of yam;
the force required to break a yam.
        [0065] Foliage: This represents the general appearance of the plant leaves rated as
sparse, intermediate, or dense.
        [0066] Fruiting Branch: This represents fruiting pattern rated as clustered, short, or
normal.
        [0067] Fusarium Wilt: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Fusarium Wilt (Fusariumoxysporum) rated as 0=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
        [0068] Gin Turnout: This represents the fraction of lint in a machine harvested
sample of seed cotton (lint, seed, and trash).
        [0069] Glyphosate Herbicide Resistance: Resistance of a plant to the action of
glyphosate; conferred in crops by genetic transformation of the crop plant using a 5-enol
pyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) gene that is insensitive to the effect of
glyphosate, or a bacterial glyphosate oxidoreductase (GOX) gene that cleaves the nitrogen
carbon bond in glyphosate yielding aminomethylphosphonic acid.

         [0070] Growth: This represents the growing pattern of the cotton plant following a
fruiting cycle rated as determinate, i.e., a complete interruption of growth following a fruiting
cycle, or indeterminate, i.e., a growth pattern in which stems continue to grow indefinitely.
         [0071] Herbicide Resistance: When a plant has negligible effect from contact with
an herbicide because the plant does not take up the herbicide or sequesters the herbicide in a
manner that renders it essentially harmless.
         [0072] Insect Resistance: When a plant has negligible effect from contact with a
potentially harmful insect because the plant has a biochemical composition that repels, kills,
or otherwise renders the insect essentially harmless to the plant.
         [0073] Leaf Color: This represents a visual assessment of the leaf color of the cotton
plant rated as greenish yellow, light green, medium green, or dark green.
         [0074] Leaf Glands: This represents the density of gossypol glands rated as absent,
sparse, normal, or more than normal.
         [0075] Leaf Nectaries: This represents whether leaf nectaries are present or absent
on the uppermost fully expanded leaf.
         [0076] Leaf Pubescence: This represents the density of leaf trichomes ("hairs") on
the bottom surface excluding veins of the uppermost fully expanded leaf rated as absent,
sparse, medium, or dense in terms of trichomes/cm 2 .
         [0077] Leaf Type: This represents the shape of the uppermost fully expanded leaf
rated as normal, sub okra, okra, or super okra.
         [0078] Lint Index: This represents the weight of lint per 100 seeds in grams.
         [0079] Lint Percentage: This represents the lint (fiber) fraction of seed cotton (lint
and seed).
         [0080] Lint Yield: This represents the lint yield in pounds per acre.
         [0081] Lygus: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for resistance
to Lygus (Lygus hesperus) rated as 0=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible,
3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0082] Mature Plant Height: This represents the height in centimeters of the cotton
plant from the cotyledonary node to terminal.
         [0083] Maturity (% Open Bolls): This represents the number of open bolls of a
plant expressed as a percentage, generally measured about 2 weeks before 100% of the bolls
of a plant are open.

         [0084] Nodes to 1st Fruiting Branch: This represents the number of nodes from the
cotyledonary node to the first fruiting branch, excluding the cotyledonary node.
         [0085] Open Bolls: This represents the percentage of the bolls of a plant that are open
at harvest.
         [0086] Petal Color: This represents a visual assessment of the petal color rated as
cream or yellow.
         [0087] Petal Spot: This represents whether petal spot is present or absent on the
flowers of the cotton plant.
         [0088] Phymatrotrichum Root Rot: This represents a visual assessment of the
cotton plants for resistance to Phymatrotrichum root rot (Phymatrotrichumomnivore) rated as
O=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0089] Pink Bollworm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Pink Bollworm (Pectinophoragossypiella) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0090] Plant Habit: This represents the general growth habit of the plant rated as
spreading, intermediate or compact.
         [0091] Pollen Color: This represents a visual assessment of pollen color rated as
cream or yellow.
         [0092] Pythium: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Pythium (Pythium spp.) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately
susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0093] Reniform Nematode: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to Reniform Nematode (Rotylenchulus renformis) rated as O=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0094] Rhizoctonia solani: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to boll rot (Rhizoctonia solani) rated as O=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0095] Root-Knot Nematode: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to Root-Knot Nematode (Meloidogyne incognita) rated as O=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [0096] Seed-Cotton Weight Per Boll: This represents the average number of grams
of seed cotton per boll on the cotton plant.
                                              17

         [0097] Seed Index: This represents the weight of 100 seeds in grams on a fuzzy
basis.
         [0098] Seeds Per Boll (Number): This represents the average number of seeds per
boll on the cotton plant.
         [0099] Southwestern Cotton Rust: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to Southwestern Cotton Rust (Pucciniacacabata)rated as 0=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00100] Spider Mite: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Spider Mite (Tetranychus spp.) rated as 0=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00101] Stem Glands: This represents the density of gossypol glands rated as
absent, sparse, normal, or more than normal.
         [00102] Stem Lodging: This represents the general appearance of the plant stems
relative to their normal near vertical orientation rated as lodging, intermediate, or erect.
         [00103] Stem Pubescence: This represents whether the stem pubescence is glabrous,
intermediate, or hairy.
         [00104] Stink Bug: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Stink Bug (Pitediaspp.; Euschistus spp.; Thyanta spp.) rated as 0=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00105] Thielaviopsis basicola: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to black root rot (Thielaviopsis basicola) rated as 0=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00106] Thrips: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants for
resistance to Thrips (Thrips spp.) rated as 0=not tested, 1=susceptible, 2=moderately
susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00107] Tobacco Bud Worm: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton
plants for resistance to Tobacco Budworm (Heliothis virescens) rated as 0=not tested,
1=susceptible, 2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.
         [00108] Verticillium Wilt: This represents a visual assessment of the cotton plants
for resistance to Verticillium wilt (Verticillium dahliae)rated as 0=not tested, 1=susceptible,
2=moderately susceptible, 3=moderately resistant, or 4=resistant.

11. Cotton Variety PIY764WRF
         A. Cotton Plant PHY764WRF
         [00109] In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure, provided is a new
Acala (Gossypium hirsutum) cotton seed and plants thereof designated PHY764WRF.
Further embodiments relate to a method for producing cotton seeds that includes, but is not
limited to, the steps of planting seed of cotton variety PHY764WRF in proximity to itself or
to different seed from a same family or line, growing the resulting cotton plants under self
pollinating or sib-pollinating conditions with adequate isolation, and harvesting resultant seed
obtained from such plants using techniques standard in the agricultural arts that are useful to
bulk-up seed such as for hybrid production. Embodiments of the present disclosure also
relate to varietal seed produced by such a method.
         [00110] In any cross between cotton plant variety PHY764WRF and another cotton
plant variety, PHY764WRF can be designated as the male (pollen parent) or the female (seed
parent). Optionally, the seed of cotton variety PHY764WRF can be pre-treated to increase
resistance of the seed and/or seedlings to stressed conditions, and further, the cotton plants or
surrounding soil can be treated with one or more agricultural chemicals before harvest. Such
agricultural chemicals can include herbicides, insecticides, pesticides and the like.
Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to a cotton plant that expresses
substantially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton plant variety
PHY764WRF and to a substantially homogenous population of cotton plants having all the
physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton plant variety PHY764WRF. Any
cotton plants produced from cotton plant variety PHY764WRF are contemplated in
embodiments of the present disclosure and are, therefore, within the scope thereof. A
description of physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton plant PHY764WRF
is presented in Table 1.
                                      TABLE 1
  Physiological and Morphological Characteristics of Cultivar PHY764WRF
                       Characteristic                                Valuea
  Area(s) of Adaptation                                       SW USA - CA, NM
  Plant Habit                                                     Intermediate
  Foliage                                                         Intermediate
  Stem Lodging                                                    Intermediate
  Fruiting Branch                                                    Normal
                                               10

Growth                                               Indeterminate
Leaf Color                                           Medium Green
                                                   Length more than
Boll Shape                                                Width
Boll Breadth                                       Broadest at Middle
Distance to 1st Fruiting Branch (cm)                      24.6
Nodes to 1st Fruiting Branch (number)                       8.0
Mature Plant Height (cm)                                  98.8
Leaf Type                                                Normal
Leaf Pubescence                                          Sparse
Leaf Nectaries                                           Present
Stem Pubescence                                       Intermediate
Leaf Glands                                              Normal
Stem Glands                                              Normal
Calyx Lobe                                          Absent (Normal)
Petal Color                                              Cream
Pollen Color                                             Cream
Petal Spot                                               Absent
Lint Percentage                                           40.7
Gin Turnout                                               36.8
Boll Type                                                 Open
Fiber Length (hundredths of an inch)                       1.20
Fiber Uniformity (percentage)                             82.9
Fiber Strength (grams per tex)                            36.3
Fiber Micronaire                                          4.13
              DISEASE AND INSECTS
      (0=Not Tested, 1=Susceptible, 2=Moderately
  Susceptible, 3=ModeratelyResistant, 4=Resistant)
Fusarium Wilt                                                2
Verticillium Wilt                                            3
Bollworm                                                     4
Fall Armyworm                                                3
Pink Bollworm                                                4
Tobacco Bud Worm                                             4
                    TRANSGENES
                                                    Bt Cry IF, Bt Cry
Insect Resistance                                          1Ac
                                                   Glyphosate (MON
Herbicide Resistance                                  88913 event)
                                        20

aThese  are typical values, which may vary due to the environment. Other values that are
substantially equivalent are within the scope of this invention.
         [00111] It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that the values
presented for the quantitative characteristics identified in Table 1 are typical values. These
values can vary due to the environment and accordingly, other values that are substantially
equivalent are also within the scope of embodiments of the disclosure.
         [00112] Cotton variety PHY764WRF shows uniformity and stability within the limits
of environmental influence for the traits described in Table 1. Variety PHY764WRF has
been self-pollinated for a sufficient number of generations with careful attention paid to
uniformity of plant type to ensure the homozygosity and phenotypic stability necessary to use
in large scale, commercial production. The line has been increased both by hand and sib
pollination in isolated fields with continued observations for uniformity. No variant traits
have been observed or are expected in PHY764WRF.
         [00113] Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to one or more cotton plant
parts of cotton plant PHY764WRF. Cotton plant parts include plant cells, plant protoplasts,
plant cell tissue cultures from which cotton plants can be regenerated, plant DNA, plant calli,
plant clumps, and plant cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as embryos,
ovules, pollen, stigmas, flowers, petals, seeds, bolls, gossypol glands, stems, leaves, fibers,
roots, root tips, and the like.
        B. Cotton Seed Designated PHY764WRF
         [00114] A cotton seed is composed of three structural parts: (1) the pericarp, which is
a protective outer covering (also known as bran or hull); (2) the germ (also known as an
embryo); and (3) the endosperm. Another aspect of the present disclosure relates to one or
more parts of cotton seed PHY764WRF, such as the pericarp of cotton seed PHY764WRF or
the germ and/or the endosperm of cotton seed PHY764WRF, which remain upon removal of
the pericarp and adhering remnants of the seed coat.
         [00115] Cotton seed designated PHY764WRF can be provided as a substantially
homogenous composition of cotton seed designated PIY764WRF, that is, a composition that
consists essentially of cotton seed PHY764WRF. Such a substantially homogenous
composition of cotton seed PHY764WRF is substantially free from significant numbers of
other varietal and/or hybrid seed so that the varietal seed forms from about 90% to about
                                               21

100% of the total seed. Preferably, a substantially homogenous composition of the varietal
cotton seed contains from about 98.5%,     9 9 %, or 99.5% to about 100% of the varietal seed, as
measured by seed grow outs. The substantially homogenous composition of varietal cotton
seed of embodiments of the disclosure can be separately grown to provide substantially
homogenous populations of varietal cotton plants. However, even if a population of varietal
cotton plants is present in a field with other different cotton plants, such as in a commercial
seed-production field of single-cross hybrid cotton planted in a ratio of 1 male pollinator row
to 4 female seed-parent rows, such a population will still be considered to be within the scope
of embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [00116] Cotton yield is affected by the conditions to which seeds and seedlings
(young plants grown from seeds) are exposed. Seeds and seedlings can be exposed to one of,
or a combination of, for example, cold, drought, salt, heat, pollutants, and disease, all of
which are conditions that potentially retard or prevent the growth of crops therefrom. For
example, temperature extremes are typical in the United States. Furthermore, diseases
evolved from pathogens and deterioration caused by fungi are potentially harmful to seeds
and seedlings. Thus, it is desirable to treat seeds by, for example, coating or impregnating the
seeds with compositions that render the seeds and seedlings grown therefrom more hardy
when exposed to such adverse conditions.
         [00117] Accordingly, another aspect of the present disclosure relates to a coated
and/or impregnated seed or cotton variety designated PHY764WRF and to coated and/or
impregnated seed derived therefrom. Various agents have been used to treat seeds to increase
resistance of the plants to stressed conditions, such as cold, drought, salt, and fungi. Such
agents include, for example, sodium methylphenyl-pentadienate, trichloroacetic acid,
polyoxyalkylene-organo-siloxane block copolymer, 5-aminolevulinic acid, salicylic acid,
thiamethoxam, potassium chloride, and polyvinyl alcohol and are useful alone, or in
combination in embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [00118] When pre-treating seeds in accordance with embodiments of the present
disclosure, such as before the seeds are planted, the seeds are contacted with the composition
of interest, for example by coating seeds, spraying seeds, soaking seeds, or a combination
thereof, by methods well known to those skilled in the art.
        C. Deposit Information

         [00119] Applicants have made a deposit of at least 2,500 seeds of cotton variety
PHY764WRF with the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), Manassas, VA 20110
USA, under ATCC Accession No PTA-122543. The seeds deposited with the ATCC on
September 30, 2015 were taken from a repository maintained by Phytogen Seed Company
since before the filing date of this application. Access to the ATCC deposit will be available
during the pendency of the application to the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks and
persons determined by the Commissioner to be entitled thereto upon request. Upon
allowance of any claims in the application, the Applicant(s) will maintain and will make this
deposit available to the public pursuant to the Budapest Treaty.
11.   Processes of Preparing Novel Cotton Plants
         A. Novel Cotton Plants Obtained From Variety PHY764WRF
         [00120] Various breeding schemes can be used to produce new cotton varieties from
cotton variety PHY764WRF. In one method, generally referred to as the pedigree method,
PHY764WRF can be crossed with another different cotton plant such as a second parent
cotton plant variety, which either itself exhibits one or more selected desirable
characteristic(s) or imparts selected desirable characteristic(s) to a hybrid combination.
Examples of potentially desired characteristics include greater yield, better stalks, better
roots, reduced time to crop maturity, better fiber quality (e.g. fineness, length, length
uniformity, strength, reflectance), better storm resistance, better agronomic quality, higher
nutritional value, higher starch extractability or starch fermentability, resistance and/or
tolerance to insecticides, herbicides, pests, heat and drought, and disease, and uniformity in
germination times, stand establishment, growth rate, maturity and boll size. If the two
original parent cotton plants do not provide all the desired characteristics, then other sources
can be included in the breeding population. Elite varieties can also be used as starting
materials for breeding or source populations from which to develop new varieties.
         [00121] Thereafter, resulting seed is harvested and resulting superior progeny plants
are selected and selfed or sib-mated in succeeding generations, such as for about 5 to about 7
or more generations, until a generation is produced that no longer segregates for substantially
all factors for which the varietal parents differ, thereby providing a large number of distinct,
pure-breeding varieties.

          [00122] In another embodiment for generating new cotton varieties, generally
referred to as backcrossing, one or more desired traits can be introduced into parent cotton
plant variety PHY764WRF (the recurrent parent) by crossing the PHY764WRF plants with
another cotton plant (referred to as the donor or non-recurrent parent), which carries the
gene(s) encoding the particular trait(s) of interest to produce F1 progeny plants. Both
dominant and recessive alleles can be transferred by backcrossing. The donor plant can also
be a varietal cotton plant, but in the broadest sense can be a member of any plant variety or
population cross-fertile with the recurrent parent. Next, F1 progeny plants that have the
desired trait are selected. Then, the selected progeny plants are crossed with PHY764WRF to
produce backcross progeny plants. Thereafter, backcross progeny plants comprising the
desired trait and the physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton variety
PHY764WRF are selected. This cycle is repeated for about one to about eight cycles,
preferably for about 3 or more times in succession to produce selected higher backcross
progeny plants that comprise the desired trait and all of the physiological and morphological
characteristics of cotton variety PHY764WRF listed in Table 1 as determined at the 5%
significance level when grown in the same environmental conditions. Exemplary desired
trait(s) include insect resistance, cytoplasmic male sterility, enhanced fiber quality, enhanced
nutritional quality, herbicide resistance, yield stability, yield enhancement, storm resistance,
drought tolerance, and resistance to bacterial, fungal, nematode and viral disease. One of
ordinary skill in the art of plant breeding will appreciate that a breeder uses various methods
to help determine which cotton plants will be selected from the segregating populations and
ultimately which varieties will be used commercially and will be used to develop hybrids for
commercialization. In addition to the knowledge of the germplasm and other skills the
breeder uses, a part of the selection process is dependent on experimental design coupled
with the use of statistical analysis. Experimental design and statistical analysis are used to
help determine which plants, which family of plants, and finally which varieties and hybrid
combinations are significantly better or different for one or more traits of interest.
Experimental design methods are used to assess error so that differences between two
varieties or two hybrid lines can be more accurately determined. Statistical analysis includes
the calculation of mean values, determination of the statistical significance of the sources of
variation, and the calculation of the appropriate variance components. Either a five or a one
percent significance level is customarily used to determine whether a difference that occurs
                                               ?4

for a given trait is real or due to the environment or experimental error. One of ordinary skill
in the art of plant breeding knows how to evaluate the traits of two plant varieties to
determine if there is no significant difference between the two traits expressed by those
varieties. For example, see Fehr, Walt, Principles of Cultivar Development, p. 261-286
(1987), which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Mean trait values can be
used to determine whether trait differences are significant, and preferably the traits are
measured on plants grown under the same environmental conditions.
         [00123] This method results in the generation of cotton plants with substantially all of
the desired morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent and the
particular transferred trait(s) of interest. Because such cotton plants are heterozygous for loci
controlling the transferred trait(s) of interest, the last backcross generation is subsequently
selfed to provide pure breeding progeny for the transferred trait(s).
         [00124] Backcrossing can be accelerated by the use of genetic markers such as SSR,
RFLP, SNP or AFLP markers to identify plants with the greatest genetic complement from
the recurrent parent.
         [00125] Direct selection can be applied where a single locus acts as a dominant trait,
such as the herbicide resistance trait. For this selection process, the progeny of the initial
cross are sprayed with the herbicide before the backcrossing. The spraying eliminates any
plants that do not have the desired herbicide resistance characteristic, and only those plants
that have the herbicide resistance gene are used in the subsequent backcross. In some
embodiments where the characteristic being transferred is a recessive allele, it is advisable to
introduce a test of the progeny to determine if the desired characteristic has been successfully
transferred. The process of selection, whether direct or indirect, is then repeated for all
additional backcross generations.
         [00126] It will be appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art that
backcrossing can be combined with pedigree breeding, as where variety PHY764WRF is
crossed with another cotton plant, the resultant progeny are crossed back to variety
PHY764WRF and thereafter, the resulting progeny of this single backcross are subsequently
inbred to develop new varieties. This combination of backcrossing and pedigree breeding is
useful when recovery is desired of fewer than all of the PHY764WRF characteristics that will
be obtained by a conventional backcross.

         [00127] In an additional embodiment of the present disclosure, new cotton varieties
can be developed by a method generally referred to as haploid breeding. In this
methodology, haploid plants are generated from diploid, heterozygous cotton plants that
result from crossing cotton plant variety PHY764WRF with another, different cotton plant.
Such haploid cotton plants can be generated by methods known to those skilled in the art
such as by culturing haploid anthers or embryos from a diploid plant. Alternately, such
haploid cotton plant can be generated by crossing the diploid heterozygous cotton plant with
a cotton plant that comprises a haploid inducing gene, which, when present in the female
parent results in offspring with a greatly enhanced frequency of haploids of both maternal and
paternal origin. Thereafter, homozygous diploid plants are produced by the doubling of a set
of chromosomes (IN) from a haploid plant generated by self-pollination such as through use
of a doubling agent, such as colchicine, nitrous oxide gas, heat treatment and trifluralin. The
technique of haploid breeding is advantageous because no subsequent inbreeding is required
to obtain a homozygous plant from a heterozygous source. Thus, in another aspect of this
disclosure, a new cotton plant variety is developed by a method that includes the steps of
crossing PHY764WRF or a hybrid made with PHY764WRF with another cotton plant having
a propensity to generate haploids to produce haploid progeny plants, and selecting desirable
cotton plants from the haploid progeny plants.
         [00128] Embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to novel cotton plants
produced by a method generally referred to as mutation breeding, whereby one or more new
traits can be artificially introduced into cotton variety PHY764WRF. The goal of artificial
mutagenesis is to increase the rate of mutation for a desired characteristic. Mutation rates can
be increased by use of many different factors, including: temperature; long-term seed storage;
tissue culture conditions; radiation, such as X-rays, Gamma rays (e.g. Cobalt-60 or Cesium
137), neutrons, (product of nuclear fission by Uranium-235 in an atomic reactor), Beta
radiation (emitted from radioisotopes such as Phosphorus-32 or Carbon-14), or ultraviolet
radiation (preferably from 2500 to 2900 nm); or chemical mutagens, such as base analogues
(5-bromo-uracil), related compounds (8-ethoxy caffeine), antibiotics (streptonigrin),
alkylating agents (sulfur mustards, nitrogen mustards, epoxides, ethylenamines, sulfates,
sulfonates, sulfones, lactones), azide, hydroxylamine, nitrous acid, or acridines. Once a
desired trait is observed through mutagenesis and selected, the trait can then be incorporated
into existing germplasm by traditional breeding techniques. Details of mutation breeding can
                                               ?2C,

be found in "Principles of Cultivar Development", Fehr, 1993 Macmillan Publishing
Company, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         [00129] The mutagenesis treatment can be applied to various stages of plant
development, including but not limited to cell cultures, embryos, microspores and shoot
apices as well as to cotton seeds. By way of example, pollen can be mixed with a solution of
1 mL EMS and 100 mLs Fisher paraffin oil (stock diluted by 1 mL and 15 mLs oil solution)
every minute for the first 5 minutes and then every five minutes for 45 minutes to keep the
pollen suspended. Thereafter, the pollen/paraffin oil solution is brushed onto the stigmas of
emasculated flower buds. A paper soda straw is used to cover the stigma to prevent
contamination. The cotton boll is picked at maturity and then resultant seeds or the plants
therefrom are screened for the desired mutant trait(s).
         [00130] Once new varieties are created, the next step is to determine if the new
varieties have any value. This is accomplished by techniques of measuring the combining
ability of the new varietal plant, as well as the performance of the variety itself. Combining
ability refers to a variety's contribution as a parent when crossed with other varieties to form
hybrids. Specific combining ability (SCA) refers to the ability of a variety to cross to another
specific variety to form a hybrid. General combining ability (GCA) refers to the ability of a
variety to cross to a wide range of varieties to form hybrids. The methodology of forming
hybrids to evaluate a variety's contribution as a parent for the purpose of selecting superior
varieties is interchangeably known as experimental, top or test crossing.
         B. Novel Varieties Obtained From a Hybrid having Variety PHY764WRF as a
         Parent
         [00131] In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, a hybrid plant
having variety PHY764WRF as a parent is crossed with itself or any different cotton plant
such as a varietal cotton plant or a hybrid cotton plant to develop a novel variety. For
example, a hybrid cotton plant having cotton plant variety PHY764WRF as a parent can be
inbred, i.e., crossed to itself or sib-pollinated, and the resulting progeny each selfed for about
5 to about 7 or more generations, thereby providing a set of distinct, relatively pure-breeding
varieties wherein each of the varieties received all of its alleles from the hybrid cotton plant
having cotton plant variety PHY764WRF as a parent. Double haploid methods can also be
used to obtain a cotton plant variety that is homozygous at essentially every locus, wherein
                                                ?7

the cotton plant variety received all of its alleles from the hybrid cotton plant having cotton
plant PHY764WRF as a parent. In other embodiments, a hybrid cotton plant having cotton
plant variety PHY764WRF as a parent is crossed with a different cotton plant, such as any
varietal cotton plant that is not varietal cotton plant PHY764WRF, any hybrid cotton plant
that does not have PHY764WRF as a parent, another germplasm source, a haploid or
mutation inducing stock, or a trait donor plant, thereby providing a set of distinct, relatively
pure-breeding varieties. The resulting varieties can then be crossed with other varieties or
other cotton germplasm and the resulting progeny analyzed for beneficial characteristics. In
this way, novel varieties conferring desirable characteristics can be identified.
         C. "Chasing Selfs"
         [00132] In the event that commercial cotton hybrids are developed, both female and
male varietal seed is occasionally found within a commercial bag of hybrid seed. Chasing the
selfs involves identifying parental varietal plants within a stand of cotton that has been grown
from a bag of hybrid cotton seed. Once the seed is planted, the parental plants can be
identified and selected due to their variance from the population norm, i.e., by their stature,
fruiting branch structure, leaf shape, leaf pubescence, fiber quality traits, or yield components
relative to the hybrid plants that grow from the hybrid seed that predominates in a
commercial bag of hybrid seed. By locating the parental plants, isolating them from the rest
of the plants, and self-pollinating them (i.e., "chasing selfs"), a breeder can obtain a variety
that is identical to a parent used to produce the hybrid.
         [00133] Accordingly, another embodiment of the present disclosure is directed to a
method for producing cotton plant variety PHY764WRF comprising: (a) planting a collection
of seed, such as a collection of seed comprising seed of a hybrid, one of whose parents is
cotton variety PHY764WRF, the collection also comprising seed of the variety; (b) growing
plants from said collection of seed; (c) identifying parent plants; (d) controlling pollination in
a manner that preserves substantial homozygosity of the parent plant; and, (e) harvesting
resultant seed. Step (c) can further comprise identifying plants with decreased vigor, i.e.,
plants that appear less robust than the other plants, or identifying plants that have a genetic
profile in accordance with the genetic profile of PHY764WRF. Cotton plants capable of
expressing substantially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton
variety PHY764WRF include cotton plants obtained by chasing selfs from a bag of hybrid
seed.

         [00134] One having skill in the art will recognize that once a breeder has obtained
cotton variety PHY764WRF by chasing selfs from a bag of hybrid seed, the breeder can then
produce new varietal plants such as by sib-pollinating, i.e., crossing the cotton plant
PHY764WRF with another cotton plant PHY764WRF, or by crossing the cotton plant
PHY764WRF with a hybrid cotton plant obtained by growing the collection of seed.
IV. Novel Hybrid Plants
        A. Novel Hybrid Seeds and Plants
         [00135] In yet another aspect of the disclosure, processes are provided for producing
cotton seeds or plants, which processes generally comprise crossing a first parent cotton plant
with a second parent cotton plant, wherein at least one of the first parent cotton plant or the
second parent cotton plant is parent cotton plant variety PHY764WRF. In some
embodiments of the present disclosure, the first cotton plant variety is PHY764WRF and is a
female and in other embodiments the first cotton plant variety is PHY764WRF and is a male.
These processes can be further exemplified as processes for preparing hybrid cotton seed or
plants, wherein a first cotton plant variety is crossed with a second cotton plant of a different,
distinct variety to provide a hybrid that has, as one of its parents, the cotton plant variety
PHY764WRF. In this case, a second variety is selected that confers desirable characteristics
when in hybrid combination with the first variety. In these processes, crossing will result in
the production of seed and lint. The seed and lint production occurs regardless whether the
seed and/or lint are collected.
         [00136] Any time the cotton plant variety PHY764WRF is crossed with another,
different cotton variety, a first generation (F1 ) cotton hybrid plant is produced. As such, an F1
hybrid cotton plant can be produced by crossing PHY764WRF with any second cotton plant
variety. Therefore, any Fi hybrid cotton plant or cotton seed that is produced with
PHY764WRF as a parent is within the scope of embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [00137] When cotton plant variety PHY764WRF is crossed with another cotton plant
variety to yield a hybrid, the original variety can serve as either the maternal or paternal plant
with, basically, the same characteristics in the hybrids. Occasionally, maternally inherited
characteristics can express differently depending on the decision of which parent to use as the
female. However, often one of the parental plants is preferred as the maternal plant because
of increased seed and/or lint yield and preferred production characteristics, such as optimal
                                               ?Q

seed size and quality or ease of boll or lint removal. Particularly in very hot climates, such as
in the Southwest USA, pollen can be shed better by one plant, making that plant the preferred
male parent. It is generally preferable to use PHY764WRF as the male parent.
         [00138] In embodiments of the present disclosure, the first step of "crossing" the first
and the second parent cotton plants comprises planting, preferably in pollinating proximity,
seeds of a first cotton plant variety and a second, distinct cotton plant variety. As discussed
herein, the seeds of the first cotton plant variety and/or the second cotton plant variety can be
treated with compositions that render the seeds and seedlings grown therefrom more hardy
when exposed to adverse conditions.
         [00139] A further step comprises cultivating or growing the seeds of the first and
second parent cotton plants into plants that bear flowers. If the parental plants differ in
timing of sexual maturity, techniques can be employed to obtain an appropriate nick, i.e., to
ensure the availability of pollen from the parent cotton plant designated the male during the
time at which stigmas on the parent cotton plant designated the female are receptive to the
pollen. Methods that can be employed to obtain the desired nick include delaying the
flowering of the faster maturing plant, such as, but not limited to, delaying the planting of the
faster maturing seed, cutting or burning the top leaves of the faster maturing plant (without
killing the plant) or speeding up the flowering of the slower maturing plant, such as by
covering the slower maturing plant with film designed to speed germination and growth.
         [00140] In a preferred embodiment, the cotton plants are treated with one or more
agricultural chemicals as considered appropriate by the grower.
         [00141] A subsequent step comprises preventing self-pollination or sib-pollination of
the plants, i.e., preventing the stigmas of a plant from being fertilized by any plant of the
same variety, including the same plant. This is preferably done in large scale production by
controlling the male fertility, e.g., treating the flowers so as to prevent pollen production or
alternatively, using as the female parent a male sterile plant of the first or second parent
cotton plant (i.e., treating or manipulating the flowers so as to prevent pollen production, to
produce an emasculated parent cotton plant, or using as a female a cytoplasmic male sterile
version of the cotton plant). This control can also be accomplished in small scale production
by physical removal of the staminal column of individual flowers before anthesis to provide
effective control of unwanted self-pollination or sib-pollination.

         [00142] Yet another step comprises allowing cross-pollination to occur between the
first and second parent cotton plants. When the plants are not in pollinating proximity, this is
done by either collecting ripe, undehisced anthers from a flower on the pollen parent with a
short section of a soda straw during the same evening of the emasculations, or collecting
whole, freshly dehisced flowers during the next morning after the emasculations. The soda
straw containing the ripe anthers is then slipped over the stigma of an emasculated flower.
Finally, bracts are wired around the soda straw, holding it in place over the style, thus
protecting the stigma from foreign pollen. If a whole flower from the male parent is used, the
petals are folded down and the staminal column is rubbed onto the emasculated stigma. In
small-scale production, seeds of hybrid cotton are commercially produced by hand
emasculation and pollination, or by hand pollination of genetic male-sterile cotton. In large
scale production, seed of hybrid cotton are commercially produced by using various bees and
other insect pollinators to cross pollinate genetic or cytoplasmic male-sterile cotton, or cotton
that has been treated with a chemical that results in male sterility.
         [00143] A further process comprises harvesting the seeds and/or lint, near or at
maturity, from the bolls of the plants that received the pollen. In a particular embodiment,
seed and/or lint are harvested from the female parent plant, and when desired, the harvested
seed can be grown to produce a first generation (F1) hybrid cotton plant.
         [00144] Yet another process comprises ginning the seed cotton to separate the seed
from the marketable lint and delinting the "fuzzy" seed to remove the short "linters" that
remain attached after ginning. The seeds are further conditioned and treated with chemicals
such as fungicides and insecticides prior to being packaged for sale to growers for the
production of lint and seed. As with varietal seed, in some embodiments it is desirable to treat
hybrid seeds with compositions that render the seeds and seedlings grown therefrom more
hardy when exposed to adverse conditions. The resulting hybrid seed is sold to growers for
the production of seed and lint and not generally for breeding.
         [00145] Further embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a hybrid cotton plant
produced by growing the harvested seeds produced on the male-sterile plant, as well as seed
produced by the hybrid cotton plant.
         [00146] A single cross hybrid is produced when two different parent cotton plant
varieties are crossed to produce first generation F 1 hybrid progeny. Generally, each parent
cotton plant variety has a genotype that complements the genotype of the other parent variety.

Typically, the F1 progeny are more vigorous than the respective parent cotton plant varieties.
This hybrid vigor, or heterosis, is manifested in many polygenic traits, including markedly
improved yields and improved fruiting, roots, uniformity and insect and disease resistance. It
is for this reason that single cross F1 hybrids are generally the most sought-after hybrid. A
three-way, or modified single-cross hybrid is produced from three varieties where two of the
varieties are crossed (AxB) and then the resulting F1 hybrid is crossed with the third variety
(AxB)xC, as where a modified female is used in the cross. A modified female provides an
advantage of improved seed/lint parent yield whereas a modified male improves pollen flow.
A double cross hybrid is produced from four varieties crossed in pairs (AxB and CxD),
thereby resulting in two F 1 hybrids that are crossed again. Double cross hybrids are more
common in countries wherein less demand exists for higher yielding single cross hybrids.
Synthetic populations or crosses are developed by crossing two or more varieties (or hybrids,
or germplasm sources) together and then employing one of many possible techniques to
random mate the progeny. Random mating the progeny is any process used by plant breeders
to make a series of crosses that will create a new germplasm pool from which new breeding
germplasm can be derived. Since cross pollination of male sterile cotton plants by hand or by
various insects is generally very inefficient, F 1 hybrid seed is generally too expensive to
produce on a large scale. Consequently, in some embodiments the F 2 seed harvested from F1
hybrids retains suitable heterosis to be an economically viable option to pure-line varieties.
         [00147] The utility of the cotton plant variety PHY764WRF also extends to crosses
with species other than the hirsutum species, such as barbadense. Commonly, suitable
species will be of the family Malvaceae, and especially of the genera Gossypium.
         B. Cotton Varietal Comparison
         [00148] As mentioned above, experimental strains are progressively eliminated
following detailed evaluations of their phenotype, including formal comparisons with other
commercially successful varieties. Research small-plot trials and commercial strip trials are
used to compare the phenotypes of varieties grown in as many environments as possible.
They are performed in many environments to assess overall performance of the new varieties
and to select optimum growing conditions. Because the cotton strains and varieties are
grown in close proximity, differential effects of environmental factors that affect gene
expression, such as moisture, temperature, sunlight, and pests, are minimized. For a decision

to be made to advance a strain, it is not necessary that the strain be better than all other
varieties. Rather, significant improvements must be shown in at least some traits that will
create value for some applications or markets. Some experimental strains are eliminated,
despite being similarly competitive relative to the current commercial varieties, because the
cost to bring a new variety to market requires a new product to be a significant improvement
over the existing product offering. Such varieties can also be licensed to other parties who
have a need in their commercial product portfolio.
         [00149] PHY764WRF was evaluated for lint yield at 8 locations with 3 or 4
replications per location in 2013-2014. The test locations were at the West Side Research
Station, CA and at grower cooperator field locations in Tulare County, Merced County, and
Fresno County within the San Joaquin Valley CA growing region. Compared to PHY725RF,
a market leading variety adapted to the Southwestern cotton-growing regions of CA and NM,
PHY764WRF had a significantly greater lint yield. The maturity of PHY764WRF was
slightly earlier than the mid-maturing variety PHY725RF (Table 2).
                             TABLE 2
       Comparison of Lint Yield and Open Bollsa Between
     PHY764WRF and Similarly Adapted Cotton Cultivars
                            Lint Yield
       Cultivar             (lbs/acre)"        Open Bolls (%)C
 PHY764WRF                     1948                  88.4
 PHY 725 RF                    1766                  84.3
           LSD(.05)d            118
               CVErr            6.4
 alligher percentage open bolls indicates earlier maturity at
 harvest.
 bMeans across 6 environments.
 CMeans across 2 environments.
 dLeast Significant Difference - indicates a significant
 difference at the 0.05 level of probability
         [00150] PHY764WRF appears stable and uniform in isolated field seed production
and field-trial evaluations, and no off-type plants have been exhibited. This line has
exhibited commercial value in field trial evaluations and is well adapted to the Southwestern
production regions of CA, AZ, and NM. It will be of value to cotton producers who desire a
cotton variety that has insect resistance from Bt genes in addition to herbicide resistance.
                                              33

V. Novel PHY764WRF-Derived Plants
        [00151] All plants produced using cotton plant variety PHY764WRF as a parent are
within the scope of embodiments of this disclosure, including plants derived from cotton
plant variety PHY764WRF. This includes plants essentially derived from variety
PHY764WRF, where the term "essentially derived variety" has the meaning ascribed to such
term in 7 U.S.C. § 2401(a)(3), also known as Section 41(a)(3) of the Plant Variety Protection
Act, which section is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This also includes a
progeny plant and parts thereof with at least one ancestor that is cotton plant variety
PHY764WRF, and more specifically, where the pedigree of this progeny includes 1, 2, 3, 4,
and/or 5 or cross pollinations to cotton plant PHY764WRF, or a plant that has PHY764WRF
as a progenitor. All breeders of ordinary skill in the art maintain pedigree records of their
breeding programs. These pedigree records contain a detailed description of the breeding
process, including a listing of all parental lines used in the breeding process and information
on how such line was used. Thus, a breeder will know if PHY764WRF were used in the
development of a progeny line, and will also know how many breeding crosses to a line other
than PHY764WRF were made in the development of any progeny line. A progeny line so
developed can then be used in crosses with other, different, cotton varieties to produce first
generation F1 cotton hybrid seeds and plants with superior characteristics.
        [00152] Accordingly, another aspect of the present disclosure relates to methods for
producing a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant. Embodiments of such methods for
producing a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant comprise: (a) crossing cotton plant
PHY764WRF with a second cotton plant to yield progeny cotton seed; and (b) growing the
progeny cotton seed (under plant growth conditions) to yield the PHY764WRF-derived
cotton plant. Such methods can further comprise the steps of: (c) crossing the PHY764WRF
derived cotton plant with itself or another cotton plant to yield additional PHY764WRF
derived progeny cotton seed; (d) growing the progeny cotton seed of step (b) (under plant
growing conditions) to yield additional PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants; and (e) repeating
the crossing and growing steps of (c) and (d) from 0 to 7 times to generate further
PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants. Still further, this can comprise utilizing methods of
semigamy and other haploid breeding and plant tissue culture methods to derive progeny of
the PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant.

VI. Tissue Cultures and In Vitro Regeneration of Cotton Plants
         [00153] As is well known in this art, tissue culture of cotton can be used for the in
vitro regeneration of a cotton plant. Accordingly, further aspects of the disclosure relate to
tissue cultures of the cotton plant variety designated PHY764WRF, to tissue cultures of
hybrid and derived cotton plants obtained from PHY764WRF, to plants obtained from such
tissue cultures and to the use of tissue culture methodology in plant breeding. The term
"tissue culture" includes a composition comprising isolated cells of the same type, isolated
cells of different types, or a collection of such cells organized into parts of a plant.
Exemplary tissue cultures are protoplasts, calli and plant cells that are intact in plants or parts
of plants, such as embryos, pollen, ovules, flowers, petals, seeds, bolls, gossypol glands,
stems, leaves, fibers, roots, root tips, and the like. In a preferred embodiment, the tissue
culture comprises embryos, protoplasts, meristematic cells, pollen, leaves or anthers derived
from immature tissues of these plant parts.
         A. Cotyledon Culture
         [00154] To obtain plant tissue for callus culture initiation, seeds are harvested from a
wild type cotton plant (generally GC5 10 or Coker3 10 genotype). Initially, seeds are surface
sterilized by a triple rinse with 70% ethanol for 1 minute each, a thorough rinse with sterile
water, followed by a wash in 30% commercial bleach (0.1% sodium hypochlorite) for about
20 minutes.
         [00155] Seeds are rinsed in sterile distilled water, and seeds are placed on the surface
of germination media (LS salts (1Ox), 3% sucrose, modified B5 vitamins (1000x), at pH 5.8)
for the production of sterile plantlets. At approximately, 7-10 days post plating, plantlets will
have emerged from the seeds. The "first true leaves" are the cotyledons. Generally, tissue
culture media contains amino acids, salts, sugars, hormones, and vitamins. The proportion of
one ingredient versus another depends on the application (e.g., need for rooting versus shoot
elongation). At day 7-10, the cotyledons are of sufficient size for experimental use. The
cotyledons are cut into 1 mm square pieces and plated on callus induction media (100 mL/L
LS salts (1Ox), 3% glucose, 1 mL/L modified B5 vitamins (1000x), 1ml/L 1mM kinetin,
1ml/L 1mM 2,4-D, 8 g/L noble agar, pH 5.8). The cotyledon segment is placed on the media
in the abaxial side down orientation. After three weeks on the callus induction media, callus

forms around the cut edges of the segment; the callus is removed from the edges using a
scalpel. The "callus" is a loose collection or mass of undifferentiated cells, which can be
yellow-green in color. Some lines are prone to phenolic production (browning), which can
affect growth. The callus is maintained on the initiation media for nine weeks, with
subculture to fresh media every three weeks. If the segments undergo transformation, they
are co-cultured with Agrobacterium in callus induction media for 3 days and then transferred
to callus induction media supplemented with carbenicillin, which is an antibiotic to kill the
Agrobacterium (2ml/L), and glufosinate-ammonium (0.5ml/L), which is the selective agent
that allows growth of only those cells that contain a transgene (PAT).
         [00156] At week nine, the callus is transferred to growth media (100ml/L LS salts,
3% glucose, 1ml/L B5 vitamins, 4.6ml/L kinetin, 10.7 mL/L NAA, 8g/L noble agar, pH 5.8,
and, if Agrobacterium infection was used to transfer the PAT gene, carbenicillin (0.4ml/L)
and glufosinate ammonium (0.3ml/L)). The callus will remain on this media for 3 weeks, to
allow for increased growth before going to embryogenic callus induction media. Once
sufficient callus is present, the tissue is placed on embryogenic induction media (1 pkg DKW
salts, l0ml/L myo-inositol, 1ml/L B5 vitamins, 2% glucose, 8g/L noble agar, pH 5.8). The
time for a line to produce embryogenic callus varies from two to six months; during which
time the callus remains on the same plate of media. Stress can assist in inducing cotton callus
to become embryogenic.
         [00157] Regeneration begins with embryogenic callus. Embryogenic callus is
maintained on the embryogenic callus induction media, with two week subcultures to fresh
media. Microscope use is preferred for the isolation and transfer of embryogenic callus to
ensure the desired morphology is taken from the plates. The desired morphology has a
granular appearance, yellow-green in color. The embryogenic callus will give rise to
embryos, which can look like small footballs and have a green color. The embryos mature on
the embryogenic callus induction media. It can take three to nine weeks for the embryos to
mature or elongate; transfers are carried out at three-week intervals. At the mature or
elongated stage the embryos are transferred to basal media that will improve shoot (1 pkg
DKW salts, 10mL/L myo-inositol, 1mL/L modified B5 vitamins, 3% sucrose, 0.5mL/L
kinetin, 8g/L noble agar, pH 5.8) or root development (0.5 pkg DKW salts, 5mL/L myo
inositol, 0.5mL/L modified B5 vitamins, 1%sucrose, 8g/L noble agar, pH 5.8).

         [00158] When secondary roots have formed and the shoot is 1 to 2 inches high with 2
good leaves, the cotton plant is ready for soil. Plantlets are first placed in a Conviron in small
pots with a humidi-dome to assist with plant hardening, since cotton plants can be quite
fragile. Then plants are later transferred to large pots in the greenhouse. Most cotton plants
are allowed to self-pollinate and these flowers are tagged with one color, while others can be
crossed with an elite variety and tagged separately.
        B. Additional Tissue Cultures and Regeneration
         [00159] Other methods for preparing and maintaining plant tissue cultures are well
known in the art. By way of example, reference may be had to Komatsuda, T. et al., Crop
Sci. 31:333-337 (1991); Stephens, P. A., et al., Theor. Appl. Genet. 82:633-635 (1991);
Komatsuda, T. et al., Plant Cell, Tissue and Organ Culture, 28:103-113 (1992); Dhir, S. et al.,
Plant Cell Reports 11:285-289 (1992); Pandey, P. et al., Japan J. Breed. 42:1-5 (1992); and
Shetty, K., et al., Plant Science 81:245-251 (1992); as well as U.S. Pat. No. 5,024,944 issued
Jun. 18, 1991 to Collins et al., and U.S. Pat. No. 5,008,200 issued Apr. 16, 1991 to Ranch et
al. Thus, another aspect of this disclosure relates to cells that upon growth and differentiation
produce cotton plants having the physiological and morphological characteristics of the
present cotton variety.
VII.Male Sterility
         [00160] Methods for controlling male fertility in cotton plants offer the opportunity
for improved plant breeding, particularly for the development of cotton hybrids that require
the implementation of a male sterility system to prevent the varietal parent plants from self
pollination.
         [00161] Accordingly, another aspect of the present disclosure relates to male-sterile
varietal cotton plants designated PHY764WRF and the production of hybrid cotton seed
using a male sterility system with such varietal female parent plants that are male sterile. If
cotton variety PHY764WRF is employed as the female parent, PHY764WRF can be rendered
male-sterile by, for example, removing the stamens of PHY764WRF parental plants
manually. By way of example, alternate strips of two cotton varieties can be planted in a
field followed by manual emasculation. Provided that the female variety is sufficiently
isolated from foreign cotton pollen sources, the stigma of the emasculated variety will be

fertilized only from the other male variety either manually or by insect pollinator vectors, and
the resulting seed will therefore be hybrid seed.
         [00162] The laborious and occasionally unreliable manual emasculation process can
be minimized by using cytoplasmic male-sterile (CMS) varieties. Plants of a CMS variety
are male sterile as a result of the influence of cytoplasmic factors, rather than those of the
nuclear genome. Thus, this characteristic is inherited exclusively through the female parent
in cotton plants, since CMS plants are fertilized with pollen from another variety that is not
male-sterile. In some embodiments, pollen from the second variety contributes genes that
make the hybrid plants male-fertile. Seed from emasculated fertile cotton and CMS produced
seed of the same hybrid can be blended to insure that adequate pollen loads are available for
fertilization when the hybrid plants are grown. Conventional backcrossing methods can be
used to introgress the CMS trait into variety PHY764WRF.
         [00163] Alternatively, haploid breeding methods can also be employed to convert
variety PHY764WRF to CMS sterility. Haploids are plants that contain only one-half of the
chromosome number present in diploid somatic cells, which are cells other than haploid cells,
such as those found in the germ. There are a few stocks or genetic systems in cotton that are
known to generate haploids spontaneously.
         [00164] Manual emasculation can also be avoided by the use of chemically induced
male sterility in the production of hybrid cotton seed. Chemicals that induce male sterility
include gametocides, pollen suppressants, and chemical hybridizing agents. The general
procedure is to use a foliar spray before flowering, which inhibits production of viable pollen,
but does not injure the pistillate reproductive organs or affect seed development. If the
treatment is successful and all of the pollen is killed, self-pollination will not occur in the
treated plants, but the flowers will set seed freely from cross-pollination. In such a case, the
parent plants used as the male can either not be treated with the chemical agent or can include
a genetic factor that causes resistance to the sterilizing effects of the chemical agent. The use
of chemically induced male sterility affects fertility in the plants only for the growing season
in which the gametocide is applied.
         [00165] The presence of a male-fertility restorer gene results in the production of a
fully fertile F 1 hybrid progeny. If no restorer gene is present in the male parent, male-sterile
hybrids are obtained. Such hybrids are useful where the vegetative tissue of the cotton plant
is used, e.g., for silage, but in most cases, the seeds will be deemed the most valuable portion

of the crop, so fertility of the hybrids in these crops must be restored. Therefore, one aspect
of the present disclosure relates to cotton variety PHY764WRF comprising a single gene
capable of restoring male fertility in an otherwise male-sterile variety or hybrid plant.
Examples of male-sterility genes and corresponding restorers that can be employed within the
scope of embodiments of the disclosure are well known to those of skill in the art of plant
breeding and are disclosed in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,530,191, 5,689,041, 5,741,684,
and 5,684,242, the disclosures of which are each specifically incorporated herein by reference
in their entirety.
VIII. Cotton Transformation
         [00166] With the advent of molecular biological techniques that have allowed the
isolation and characterization of genes that encode specific protein products, scientists in the
field of plant biology developed a strong interest in engineering the genome of plants to
contain and to express foreign genes, or additional, or modified versions of native or
endogenous genes (perhaps driven by different promoters) to alter the traits of a plant in a
specific manner. Such foreign, additional and/or modified genes are referred to herein
collectively as "transgenes." The present disclosure, in particular embodiments, also relates
to transformed versions of the claimed cotton variety PHY764WRF containing one or more
transgenes.
         [00167] Plant transformation involves the construction of an expression vector that
will function in plant cells. Such a vector comprises DNA comprising a gene under control
of or operatively linked to a regulatory element. The expression vector can contain one or
more such operably linked gene/regulatory element combinations. The vector(s) can be in
the form of a plasmid, and can be used, alone or in combination with other plasmids, to
develop transformed cotton plants, using transformation methods as described below to
incorporate transgenes into the genetic material of the cotton plant(s).
         A. Expression Vectors for Cotton Transformation/Marker Genes
         [00168] Expression vectors include at least one genetic marker, operably linked to a
regulatory element that allows transformed cells containing the marker to be either recovered
by negative selection, i.e., inhibiting growth of cells that do not contain the selectable marker
gene, or by positive selection, i.e., screening for the product encoded by the genetic marker.

Many commonly used selectable marker genes for plant transformation are well known in the
transformation arts, and include, for example, genes that code for enzymes that metabolically
detoxify a selective chemical agent that can be an antibiotic or a herbicide, or genes that
encode an altered target that is insensitive to the inhibitor. A few positive selection methods
are also known in the art. One commonly used selectable marker gene for plant
transformation is the neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptll) gene, isolated from a bacterial
source, which when placed under the control of plant regulatory signals confers resistance to
kanamycin. Fraley et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 80: 4803 (1983). Another commonly
used selectable marker gene is the hygromycin phosphotransferase gene that confers
resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin. Vanden Elzen et al., PlantMol. Biol. 5: 299 (1985).
         [00169] Additional selectable marker genes of bacterial origin that confer resistance
to antibiotics include gentamycin acetyl transferase, streptomycin phosphotransferase,
aminoglycoside-3'-adenyl transferase and the bleomycin resistance determinant. Hayford et
al., PlantPhysiol. 86: 1216 (1988), Jones et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 210: 86 (1987), Svab et al.,
PlantMol. Biol. 14: 197 (1990), Hille et al., PlantMol. Biol. 7: 171 (1986). Other selectable
marker genes confer resistance to herbicides such as glyphosate, glufosinate or bromoxynil.
Comai et al., Nature 317: 741-744 (1985), Gordon-Kamm et al., Plant Cell 2: 603-618 (1990)
and Stalker et al., Science 242: 419-423 (1988).
         [00170] Other selectable marker genes for plant transformation are not of bacterial
origin. These genes include, for example, mouse dihydrofolate reductase, plant 5
enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase and plant acetolactate synthase. Eichholtz et al.,
Somatic Cell Mol. Genet. 13: 67 (1987), Shah et al., Science 233: 478 (1986), Charest et al.,
Plant Cell Rep. 8: 643 (1990).
         [00171] Another class of marker genes for plant transformation requires screening of
presumptively transformed plant cells rather than direct genetic selection of transformed cells
for resistance to a toxic substance such as an antibiotic. These genes are particularly useful to
quantify or visualize the spatial pattern of expression of a gene in specific tissues and are
frequently referred to as reporter genes because they can be fused to a gene or gene
regulatory sequence for the investigation of gene expression. Commonly used genes for
screening presumptively transformed cells include      p-glucuronidase (GUS),   p-galactosidase,
and luciferase. Jefferson, R.A., PlantMol. Biol. Rep. 5: 387 (1987), Teeri et al., EMBO J 8:
343 (1989), Koncz et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84: 131 (1987). Another approach to
                                               An

the identification of relatively rare transformation events has been use of a gene that encodes
a dominant constitutive regulator of the Zea mays anthocyanin pigmentation pathway.
Ludwig et al., Science 247: 449 (1990).
         [00172] Recently, in vivo methods for visualizing GUS activity that do not require
destruction of plant tissue have been made available. Molecular Probes Publication 2908,
Imagine Green TM, p. 1-4 (1983) and Naleway et al., J Cell Biol. 115: 15la (1991).
However, these in vivo methods for visualizing GUS activity have not proven useful for
recovery of transformed cells because of low sensitivity, high fluorescent backgrounds, and
limitations associated with the use of luciferase genes as selectable markers.
         [00173] More recently, a gene encoding Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) has been
utilized as a marker for gene expression in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Chalfie et al.,
Science 263: 802 (1994). GFP and mutants of GFP can be used as screenable markers.
         B. Promoters
         [00174] Genes included in expression vectors must be driven by a nucleotide
sequence comprising a regulatory element, for example a promoter. Several types of
promoters are now well known in the transformation arts, as are other regulatory elements
that can be used alone or in combination with promoters.
         [00175] As used herein "promoter" includes reference to a region of DNA upstream
from the start of transcription and involved in recognition and binding of RNA polymerase
and other proteins to initiate transcription. A "plant promoter" is a promoter capable of
initiating transcription in plant cells. Examples of promoters under developmental control
include promoters that preferentially initiate transcription in certain tissues, such as leaves,
roots, seeds, fibers, xylem vessels, tracheids, or sclerenchyma. Such promoters are referred
to as "tissue-preferred." Promoters that initiate transcription only in certain tissues are
referred to as "tissue-specific." A "cell type" specific promoter primarily drives expression in
certain cell types in one or more organs, for example vascular cells in roots or leaves. An
"inducible" promoter is a promoter that is under environmental control or is induced in
response to chemical or hormonal stimuli. Examples of environmental conditions that can
effect transcription by inducible promoters include anaerobic conditions or the presence of
light. Examples of chemicals that induce expression include salicylic acid and ABA. Tissue
specific, tissue-preferred, cell type specific, and inducible promoters constitute the class of
                                                4l

"non-constitutive" promoters. A "constitutive" promoter is a promoter that is active under
most environmental conditions and in all cells.
        1. Inducible Promoters
        [00176] An inducible promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in cotton.
Optionally, the inducible promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a
signal sequence that is operably linked to a gene for expression in cotton. With an inducible
promoter the rate of transcription increases in response to an inducing agent. Any inducible
promoter can be used in embodiments of the instant disclosure. A particularly preferred
inducible promoter is a promoter that responds to an inducing agent to which plants do not
normally respond. An exemplary inducible promoter is the inducible promoter from a steroid
hormone gene, the transcriptional activity of which is induced by a glucocorticosteroid
hormone.
        2. Constitutive Promoters
        [00177] A constitutive promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in cotton
or is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence that is operably
linked to a gene for expression in cotton. Many different constitutive promoters can be used
in embodiments of the present disclosure. Exemplary constitutive promoters include, but are
not limited to, the promoters from plant viruses such as the 35S promoter from CaMV and
the promoters from such genes as rice actin, maize ubiquitin, and corn H3 histone. Also, the
ALS promoter, an XbaI/NcoI fragment 5' to the Brassica napus ALS3 structural gene (or a
nucleotide sequence that has substantial sequence similarity to the XbaI/NcoI fragment)
represents a particularly useful constitutive promoter.
        3. Tissue-specific or Tissue-Preferred Promoters
        [00178] A tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in
cotton. Optionally, the tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence
encoding a signal sequence that is operably linked to a gene for expression in cotton. Plants
transformed with a gene of interest operably linked to a tissue-specific promoter produce the
protein product of the transgene exclusively, or preferentially, in a specific tissue. Any
tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoter can be utilized in embodiments of the instant
                                              14?

disclosure. Exemplary tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoters include, but are not
limited to, a seed-preferred promoter such as that from the phaseolin gene; a leaf-specific and
light-induced promoter such as that from cab or rubisco; an anther-specific promoter such as
that from LAT52; a pollen specific promoter such as that from Zm13; or a microspore
preferred promoter such as that from apg.
         C. Signal Sequences For Targeting Proteins to Subcellular Compartments
         [00179] Transport of protein produced by transgenes to a subcellular compartment
such as the chloroplast, vacuole, peroxisome, glyoxysome, cell wall or mitochondrion, or for
secretion into the apoplast, is accomplished by operably linking the nucleotide sequence
encoding a signal sequence to the 5' and/or 3' region of a gene encoding the protein of
interest. Targeting sequences at the 5' and/or 3' end of the structural gene can determine,
during protein synthesis and processing, where the encoded protein is ultimately
compartmentalized. The presence of a signal sequence directs a polypeptide to either an
intracellular organelle or subcellular compartment or for secretion to the apoplast. Use of any
signal sequence known in the art is contemplated for use in embodiments of the present
disclosure.
         D. Foreign Protein Genes and Agronomic Genes
         [00180] Using transgenic plants of embodiments of the present disclosure, a foreign
protein can be produced in commercial quantities. Thus, techniques for the selection and
propagation of transformed plants, which are well understood in the art, yield a plurality of
transgenic plants, which are harvested in a conventional manner, and a foreign protein then
can be extracted from a tissue of interest or from total biomass. Protein extraction from plant
biomass can be accomplished by known methods.
         [00181] According to a preferred embodiment, the transgenic plant provided for
commercial production of foreign protein is cotton. In another preferred embodiment, the
biomass of interest is seed. For the relatively small number of transgenic plants that show
higher levels of expression, a genetic map can be generated, for example via conventional
Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLP), Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
analysis, and Simple Sequence Repeats (SSR), in a manner that identifies the approximate
chromosomal location of the integrated DNA molecule. For exemplary methodologies in this
                                              141

regard, see Glick and Thompson, Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and Biotechnology
269-284 (CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1993). Map information concerning chromosomal
location is useful for proprietary protection of a subject transgenic plant. If unauthorized
propagation is undertaken and crosses made with other germplasm, the map of the integration
region can be compared to similar maps for suspect plants, to determine if the latter have a
common parentage with the subject plant. In particular embodiments, map comparisons can
involve, for example, hybridizations, RFLP, PCR, SSR and sequencing, all of which are
conventional techniques.
        [00182] Likewise, in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure,
agronomic genes can be expressed in transformed plants. More particularly, plants can be
genetically engineered to express various phenotypes of agronomic interest. Exemplary
genes implicated in this regard include, but are not limited to:
        1. Genes that Confer Resistance to Pests or Disease and that Encode:
        [00183] (a) Plant disease resistance genes. Plant defenses are often activated by
specific interaction between the product of a disease resistance gene (R) in the plant and the
product of a corresponding avirulence (Avr) gene in the pathogen. A plant variety can be
transformed with a cloned resistance gene to engineer plants that are resistant to specific
pathogen strains. See, for example, Jones et al., Science 266: 789 (1994) (cloning of the
tomato Cf-9 gene for resistance to Cladosporiumfulvum); Martin et al., Science 262: 1432
(1993) (tomato Pto gene for resistance to Pseudomonassyringae pv. tomato encodes a
protein kinase); Mindrinos et al., Cell 78: 1089 (1994) (Arabidopsis RSP2 gene for resistance
to Pseudomonas syringae).
        [00184] (b) A Bacillus thuringiensisprotein, a derivative thereof or a synthetic
polypeptide modeled thereon. See, for example, Geiser et al., Gene 48: 109 (1986), who
disclose the cloning and nucleotide sequence of a Bt 6-endotoxin gene. Moreover, DNA
molecules encoding 6-endotoxin genes can be purchased from American Type Culture
Collection (Rockville, Md.), for example, under ATCC Accession Nos. 40098, 67136, 31995
and 31998.
        [00185] (c) A lectin. See, for example, the disclosure by Van Damme et al., Plant
Molec. Biol. 24: 25 (1994), who disclose the nucleotide sequences of several Clivia miniata
mannose-binding lectin genes.

         [00186] (d) A vitamin-binding protein such as avidin. See PCT application
US93/06487, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The
application teaches the use of avidin and avidin homologues as larvicides against insect pests.
         [00187] (e) An enzyme inhibitor, for example, a protease inhibitor or an amylase
inhibitor. See, for example, Abe et al., J. Biol. Chem. 262: 16793 (1987) (nucleotide
sequence of rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor), Huub et al., Plant Molec. Biol. 21: 985 (1993)
(nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding tobacco proteinase inhibitor I), and Sumitani et al.,
Biosci. Biotech. Biochem. 57: 1243 (1993) (nucleotide sequence of Streptomyces
nitrosporeusa-amylase inhibitor).
         [00188] (f)An insect-specific hormone or pheromone such as an ecdysteroid or
juvenile hormone, a variant thereof, a mimetic based thereon, or an antagonist or agonist
thereof. See, for example, the disclosure by Hammock et al., Nature 344: 458 (1990), of
baculovirus expression of cloned juvenile hormone esterase, an inactivator of juvenile
hormone.
         [00189] (g) An insect-specific peptide or neuropeptide that, upon expression,
disrupts the physiology of the affected pest. For example, see the disclosures of Regan, J.
Biol. Chem. 269: 9 (1994) (expression cloning yields DNA coding for insect diuretic
hormone receptor), and Pratt et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 163: 1243 (1989) (an
allostatin is identified in Diplopterapuntata). See also U.S. Pat. No. 5,266,317 to Tomalski et
al., who disclose genes encoding insect-specific, paralytic neurotoxins.
         [00190] (h) An insect-specific venom produced in nature by a snake, a wasp, etc.
For example, see Pang et al., Gene 116: 165 (1992), for disclosure of heterologous expression
in plants of a gene coding for a scorpion insectotoxic peptide.
         [00191] (i)An enzyme responsible for a hyperaccumulation of a monoterpene, a
sesquiterpene, a steroid, hydroxamic acid, a phenylpropanoid derivative or another non
protein molecule with insecticidal activity.
         [00192] (j)An enzyme involved in the modification, including the post-translational
modification, of a biologically active molecule, for example, a glycolytic enzyme, a
proteolytic enzyme, a lipolytic enzyme, a nuclease, a cyclase, a transaminase, an esterase, a
hydrolase, a phosphatase, a kinase, a phosphorylase, a polymerase, an elastase, a chitinase, or
a glucanase, whether natural or synthetic. See PCT application WO 93/02197 in the name of
 Scott et al., which discloses the nucleotide sequence of a callase gene. DNA molecules that

contain chitinase-encoding sequences can be obtained, for example, from the ATCC under
Accession Nos. 39637 and 67152. See also Kramer et al., Insect Biochem. Molec. Biol. 23:
691 (1993), who teach the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding tobacco hookworm
chitinase, and Kawalleck et al., Plant Molec. Biol. 21: 673 (1993), who provide the
nucleotide sequence of the parsley ubi4-2 polyubiquitin gene.
         [00193] (k) A molecule that stimulates signal transduction. For example, see the
disclosure by Botella et al., Plant Molec. Biol. 24: 757 (1994), of nucleotide sequences for
mung bean calmodulin cDNA clones, and Griess et al., Plant Physiol. 104: 1467 (1994), who
provide the nucleotide sequence of a corn calmodulin cDNA clone.
         [00194] (1)A hydrophobic moment peptide. See PCT application W095/16776
(disclosure of peptide derivatives of Tachyplesin that inhibit fungal plant pathogens) and PCT
application W095/18855 (teaches synthetic antimicrobial peptides that confer disease
resistance), the respective contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
         [00195] (m) A membrane permease, a channel former or a channel blocker. For
example, see the disclosure by Jaynes et al., Plant Sci. 89: 43 (1993), of heterologous
expression of a cecropin-    lytic peptide analog to render transgenic tobacco plants resistant to
Pseudomonas solanacearum.
         [00196] (n) A viral-invasive protein or a complex toxin derived therefrom. For
example, the accumulation of viral coat proteins in transformed plant cells imparts resistance
to viral infection and/or disease development effected by the virus from which the coat
protein gene is derived, as well as by related viruses. See Beachy et al., Ann. Rev.
Phytopathol. 28: 451 (1990). Coat protein-mediated resistance has been conferred upon
transformed plants against alfalfa mosaic virus, cucumber mosaic virus, tobacco streak virus,
potato virus X, potato virus Y, tobacco etch virus, tobacco rattle virus and tobacco mosaic
virus. Id.
         [00197] (o) An insect-specific antibody or an immunotoxin derived therefrom. Thus,
an antibody targeted to a critical metabolic function in the insect gut will inactivate an
affected enzyme, killing the insect. Cf. Taylor et al., Abstract #497, Seventh Intl.
Symposium on Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions (Edinburgh, Scotland (Edinburgh,
Scotland, 1994) (enzymatic inactivation in transgenic tobacco via production of single-chain
antibody fragments).

         [00198] (p) A virus-specific antibody. See, for example, Tavladoraki et al, Nature
366: 469 (1993), who show that transgenic plants expressing recombinant antibody genes are
protected from virus attack.
         [00199] (q) A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a pathogen or a
parasite. Thus, fungal endo a-1,4-D-polygalacturonases facilitate fungal colonization and
plant nutrient release by solubilizing plant cell wall homo-a-1,4-D-galacturonate. See Lamb
et al., Bio/Technology 10: 1436 (1992). The cloning and characterization of a gene that
encodes a bean endopolygalacturonase-inhibiting protein is described by Toubart et al., Plant
J. 2: 367 (1992).
         [00200] (r)A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a plant. For
example, Logemann et al., Bio/Technology 10: 305 (1992), have shown that transgenic plants
expressing the barley ribosome-inactivating gene have an increased resistance to fungal
disease.
         2. Genes that Confer Resistance to a Herbicide, for Example:
         [00201] (a) A herbicide that inhibits the growing point or meristem, such as an
imidazalinone or a sulfonylurea. Exemplary genes in this category code for mutant ALS and
AHAS enzyme as described, for example, by Lee et al., EMBO J. 7: 1241 (1988), and Miki et
al., Theor. Appl. Genet. 80: 449 (1990), respectively.
         [00202] (b) Glyphosate (resistance imparted by mutant 5-enolpyruvl-3
phosphikimate synthase (EPSP) and aroA genes, respectively) and other phosphono
compounds such as glufosinate (phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT) and Streptomyces
hygroscopicus phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (bar) genes), and pyridinoxy or
phenoxypropionic acids and cyclohexones (ACCase inhibitor-encoding genes). See, for
example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,940,835 to Shah et al., which discloses the nucleotide sequence of a
form of EPSP that can confer glyphosate resistance. A DNA molecule encoding a mutant
aroA gene can be obtained under ATCC accession No. 39256, and the nucleotide sequence of
the mutant gene is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,769,061 to Comai. European patent
application No. 0 333 033 to Kumada et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4,975,374 to Goodman et al.
disclose nucleotide sequences of glutamine synthetase genes that confer resistance to
herbicides such as L-phosphinothricin. The nucleotide sequence of a phosphinothricin-acetyl
transferase gene is provided in European application No. 0 242 246 to Leemans et al.
                                              47

Furthermore, De Greef et al., Bio/Technology 7: 61 (1989), describe the production of
transgenic plants that express chimeric bar genes coding for phospinothricin acetyl
transferase activity. Exemplary of genes conferring resistance to phenoxypropionic acids and
cyclohexones, such as sethoxydim and haloxyfop, are the Acc -S1, Acc 1-S2 and Acc 1 -S3
genes described by Marshall et al., Theor. Appl. Genet. 83: 435 (1992).
        [00203] (c) A herbicide that inhibits photosynthesis, such as a triazine (psbA and
gs+ genes) or a benzonitrile (nitrilase gene). Przibilla et al., Plant Cell 3: 169 (1991),
describe the transformation of Chlamydomonas with plasmids encoding mutant psbA genes.
Nucleotide sequences for nitrilase genes are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,810,648 to Stalker,
and DNA molecules containing these genes are available under ATCC Accession Nos.
53435, 67441 and 67442. Cloning and expression of DNA coding for a glutathione S
transferase is described by Hayes et al., Biochem. J. 285: 173 (1992).
        3. Genes that Confer or Contribute to a Value-added Trait, such as:
        [00204]    (a) Modified fatty acid metabolism, for example, by transforming a plant
with an antisense gene of stearoyl-ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid content of the
plant. See Knultzon et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 2624 (1992).
        [00205] (b) Decreased phytate content:
        [00206] (i) Introduction of a phytase-encoding gene will enhance breakdown of
phytate, adding more free phosphate to the transformed plant. For example, see Van
Hartingsveldt et al., Gene 127: 87 (1993), for a disclosure of the nucleotide sequence of an
Aspergillus niger phytase gene.
        [00207] (ii) A gene can be introduced that reduces phytate content. In cotton, this,
for example, can be accomplished by cloning and then reintroducing DNA associated with
the single allele that is responsible for cotton mutants characterized by low levels of phytic
acid. See Raboy et al., Maydica 35: 383 (1990).
        [00208] (iii) Modified carbohydrate composition effected, for example, by
transforming plants with a gene coding for an enzyme that alters the branching pattern of
starch. See Shiroza et al., J. Bacteriol. 170: 810 (1988) (nucleotide sequence of Streptococcus
mutans fructosyltransferase gene), Steinmetz et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 200: 220 (1985)
(nucleotide sequence ofBacillus subtillus levansucrase gene), Pen et al., Bio/Technology 10:
292 (1992) (production of transgenic plants that express Bacillus lichenformis a-amylase),

Elliot et al., Plant Molec. Biol. 21: 515 (1993) (nucleotide sequences of tomato invertase
genes), Sogaard et al., J. Biol. Chem. 268: 22480 (1993) (site-directed mutagenesis of barley
a-amylase gene), and Fisher et al., Plant Physiol. 102: 1045 (1993) (corn endosperm starch
branching enzyme II).
        E.     Methods for Cotton Transformation
         [00209] Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed, including
biological and physical, plant transformation protocols. See, for example, Miki et al.,
"Procedures for Introducing Foreign DNA into Plants" in Methods in Plant Molecular
Biology and Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E. Eds. (CRC Press, Inc., Boca
Raton, 1993) pages 67-88. In addition, expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for
plant cell or tissue transformation and regeneration of plants are available. See, for example,
Gruber et al., "Vectors for Plant Transformation" in Methods in Plant Molecular Biology and
Biotechnology, Glick, B. R. and Thompson, J. E. Eds. (CRC Press, inc., Boca Raton, 1993)
pages 89-119.
         1. Agrobacterium-mediated Transformation
         [00210] One method for introducing an expression vector into plants is based on the
natural transformation system of Agrobacterium. See, for example, Horsch et al., Science
227: 1229 (1985). A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes are plant pathogenic soil bacteria that
genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri plasmids of A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes,
respectively, carry genes responsible for genetic transformation of the plant. See, for
example, Kado, C. I., Crit. Rev. Plant. Sci.10: 1 (1991). Descriptions of Agrobacterium
vector systems and methods for Agrobacterium-mediatedgene transfer are provided by
Gruber et al., supra, Miki et al., supra, and Moloney et al., Plant Cell Reports 8: 238 (1989).
See also U.S. Pat. No. 5,591,616, issued Jan. 7, 1997.
        2. Direct Gene Transfer
                                              4Q

        [00211] Several methods of plant transformation, collectively referred to as direct
gene transfer, have been developed as an alternative to Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation.
        [00212] A generally applicable method of plant transformation is microprojectile
mediated transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles
measuring I to 4 pm (See e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,550,318; U.S. Patent No. 5,736,369; U.S.
Patent No. 5,538,880; and PCT Publication WO 95/06128). The expression vector is
introduced into plant tissues with a biolistic device that accelerates the microprojectiles to
speeds of 300 to 600 m/s, which is sufficient to penetrate plant cell walls and membranes.
Sanford et al, Part. Sci. Technol. 5: 27 (1987), Sanford, J. C., Trends Biotech. 6: 299 (1988),
Klein et al., Bio/Technology 6: 559-563 (1988), Sanford, J. C., Physiol. Plant 79: 206 (1990),
Klein et al., Biotechnology 10: 268 (1992).
        [00213] Another method for physical delivery of DNA to plants is sonication of
target cells. Zhang et al., Bio/Technology 9: 996 (1991). Alternatively, liposome or
spheroplast fusion have been used to introduce expression vectors into plants. Deshayes et al.,
EMBO J., 4: 2731 (1985), Christou et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84: 3962 (1987).
Direct uptake of DNA into protoplasts using CaCl 2 precipitation, polyvinyl alcohol or poly
L-omithine have also been reported. Hain et al., Mol. Gen. Genet. 199: 161 (1985) and
Draper et al., Plant Cell Physiol. 23: 451 (1982). Electroporation of protoplasts and whole
cells and tissues have also been described. U.S. Patent No. 5,384,253 and Donn et al; in
Abstracts of VIIth International Congress on Plant Cell and Tissue Culture IAPTC, A2-38, p
53 (1990); D'Halluin et al., Plant Cell 4: 1495-1505 (1992) and Spencer et al., Plant Mol.
Biol. 24: 51-61 (1994).
        [00214] Other methods that have been described for the genetic transformation of
cotton include electrotransformation (U.S. Patent No. 5,371,003) and silicon carbide fiber
mediated transformation (U.S. Patent No. 5,302,532 and U.S. Patent No. 5,464,765).
        [00215] Following transformation of cotton target tissues, expression of the above
described selectable marker genes allows for preferential selection of transformed cells,
tissues and/or plants, using regeneration and selection methods now well known in the art.
        [00216] The foregoing methods for transformation are typically used for producing
transgenic cotton varieties. Transgenic cotton varieties can then be crossed, with another
(non-transformed or transformed) cotton variety, to produce a transgenic hybrid cotton plant.

Alternatively, a genetic trait that has been engineered into a particular cotton variety using the
foregoing transformation techniques can be moved into another line using traditional
backcrossing techniques that are well known in the plant breeding arts. For example, a
backcrossing approach can be used to move an engineered trait from a public, non-elite line
into an elite line, or from a hybrid cotton plant containing a foreign gene in its genome into a
line or lines that do not contain that gene.
IX. Genetic Complements
         [00217] In addition to phenotypic observations, a plant can also be described by its
genotype. The genotype of a plant can be described through a genetic marker profile that can
identify plants of the same variety, a related variety or be used to determine or to validate a
pedigree. Genetic marker profiles can be obtained by techniques such as Restriction
Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLPs), Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs
(RAPDs), Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction (AP-PCR), DNA Amplification
Fingerprinting (DAF), Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCARs), Amplified
Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs), Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs), which are also
referred to as Microsatellites, and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), Isozyme
Electrophoresis and Isoelectric Focusing.
         [00218] Particular markers used for these purposes are not limited to the set of
markers disclosed herewithin, but are envisioned to include any type of genetically stable
marker and marker profile that provides a way of distinguishing varieties. In addition to
being used for identification of cotton varieties, a hybrid produced through the use of
PHY764WRF, and identification or verification of the pedigree of progeny plants produced
through the use of PHY764WRF, the genetic marker profile is also useful in breeding and
developing backcross conversions.
         [00219] Methods of generating genetic marker profiles using SSR polymorphisms
are well known in the art. SSRs are genetic markers based on polymorphisms in repeated
nucleotide sequences, such as microsatellites. The phrase "simple sequence repeats" or
"SSR" refers to di-, tri- or tetra- nucleotide repeats within a genome. The repeat region can
vary in length between genotypes while the DNA flanking the repeat is conserved, such that
the primers will work in a plurality of genotypes. A polymorphism between two genotypes
represents repeats of different lengths between the two flanking conserved DNA sequences.

A marker system based on SSRs can be highly informative in linkage analysis relative to
other marker systems in that, in some embodiments, multiple alleles are present. Another
advantage of this type of marker is that, through use of flanking primers, detection of SSRs
can be achieved, for example, by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR detection is
done by the use of two oligonucleotide primers flanking the polymorphic segment of
repetitive DNA followed by DNA amplification. This step involves repeated cycles of heat
denaturation of the DNA followed by annealing of the primers to their complementary
sequences at low temperatures, and extension of the annealed primers with DNA polymerase.
Size separation of DNA fragments on agarose or polyacrylamide gels following amplification
comprises the major part of the methodology.
         [00220] DNA isolation and amplification can be performed in certain embodiments
of the present disclosure as follows. DNA can be extracted from plant leaf tissue using
DNeasy 96 Plant Kit from Qiagen, Inc. (Valencia, Calif., U.S.A.) following an optimized
September 2002 manufacturer's protocol. PCR amplifications are performed using a Qiagen
HotStarTM Taq master mix in an 8 pl reaction format as follows: 2 pl DNA (5 ng/pL + 6 pL
of master mix). The PCR conditions are as follows: 12 mins. at 95'C, 40 cycles of 5 seconds
at 94'C, 15 seconds at 55'C, 30 seconds at 72'C, 30 mins. at 72'C, followed by cooling to
4'C. Following isolation and amplification, markers can be scored by gel electrophoresis of
the amplification products. Scoring of marker genotype is based on the size of the amplified
fragment as measured by molecular weight (MW) rounded to the nearest integer. Multiple
samples, comprising fluorescently labeled DNA fragments, can be processed in an ABI 3700
capillary-based machine and precise allele sizing and locus genotyping can be done by
running GeneScan and Genotyper software (PE Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.).
When comparing varieties, it is preferable that all SSR profiles be performed in the same lab.
An SSR service is available to the public on a contractual basis by Paragen, Research
Triangle Park, N.C. (formerly Celera AgGen of Davis, Calif.).
         [00221] All publications, patents and patent applications mentioned in the
specification are indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which this disclosure
pertains. All such publications, patents and patent applications are incorporated by reference
herein to the same extent as if each was specifically and individually indicated to be
incorporated by reference herein.

         [00222] The foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
illustration and example for purposes of clarity and understanding. However, it will be
appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art that certain changes and modifications
such as single gene modifications and mutations, somoclonal variants, variant individuals
selected from large populations of the plants of the instant variety and the like can be
practiced within the scope of the embodiments of the invention, as limited only by the scope
of the appended claims, without departing from the true concept, spirit, and scope of the
invention.

CLAIMS:
What is claimed is:
        1. A seed of cotton variety designated PHY764WRF, or a part thereof, representative
seed of the variety having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543.
        2. The seed part of claim 1 selected from the group consisting of hull (seedcoat),
germ and endosperm.
        3. The seed of claim 1, further comprising a coating.
        4. A substantially homogenous composition of the cotton seed of claim 1.
        5. A method for producing a seed of a cotton plant, comprising:
            (a) planting seed of claim 1 in proximity to itself or to different seed from a same
            variety;
            (b) growing plants from the seed under pollinating conditions; and,
            (c) harvesting resultant seed.
        6. A cotton seed produced by the method of claim 5.
        7. The method of claim 5, further comprising pre-treating the seed of claim 1 before
performing step (a).
        8. The method of claim 5, further comprising treating the growing plants or soil
surrounding the growing plants with an agricultural chemical.
        9. A cotton plant produced by growing the seed of claim 1.
        10. A part of the cotton plant of claim 9, selected from the group consisting of an
intact plant cell, a plant protoplast, embryos, pollen, flowers, seeds, staples, linters, fibers,
pods, gossypol glands, leaves, bolls, stems, roots, root tips, and anthers.
        11. Fibers of the plant of claim 9.
        12. Staples of the plant of claim 9.
        13. A cotton plant, or a part thereof, having all the physiological and morphological
characteristics of the cotton plant of claim 9.
        14. A substantially homogenous population of cotton plants of claim 9.
        15. The substantially homogenous population of cotton plants of claim 14, wherein
the population is present in a field and the field further comprises other, different cotton
plants.
        16. A method for producing a cotton plant, comprising:

               (a) crossing cotton variety plant PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety
               having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, with another
               different cotton plant to yield progeny cotton seed.
         17. The method of claim 16, wherein the other, different cotton plant is a cotton
variety.
         18. The method of claim 16, further comprising:
               (b) growing the progeny cotton seed from step (a) under self-pollinating or sib
               pollinating conditions for about 5 to about 7 generations; and
               (c)harvesting resultant seed.
         19. The method of claim 16, further comprising selecting plants obtained from
growing at least one generation of the progeny cotton seed for a desirable trait.
         20. A method of introducing a desired trait into cotton variety PHY764WRF,
representative seed of the variety having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA
122543, comprising:
               (a) crossing PHY764WRF plants with plants of another cotton variety that
               comprise a desired trait to produce F1 progeny plants;
               (b) selecting F1 progeny plants that have the desired trait;
               (c) crossing selected progeny plants with PHY764WRF plants to produce
               backcross progeny plants;
               (d) selecting for backcross progeny plants that comprise the desired trait and
               physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton variety PHY764WRF;
               and
               (e) performing steps (c) and (d) one or more times in succession to produce
               selected or higher backcross progeny plants that comprise the desired trait and
               all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of cotton variety
               PHY764WRF listed in Table 1 as determined at the 5% significance level when
               grown in the same environmental conditions.
         21. The method of claim 17, wherein the plants of the other cotton variety comprise a
desired trait selected from the group consisting of male sterility, herbicide resistance, insect
resistance, and resistance to bacterial, fungal and viral disease.
         22. The method of claim 16, further comprising using direct or indirect selection to
determine whether the desired trait is present in a progeny plant.

        23. A method for producing a cotton plant, comprising:
              (a) crossing the cotton plant of claim 9 with another different cotton plant to
              produce a diploid or progeny plant;
              (b) generating a haploid progeny plant from the diploid progeny plant;
              (c) generating a diploid plant from the haploid progeny plant; and,
              (d) selecting the diploid cotton plant.
        24. The method of claim 23, wherein the haploid progeny plant is generated by
culturing a haploid explant from the diploid progeny plant.
        25. The method of claim 23, wherein the haploid progeny plant is generated by
crossing the progeny plant with another, different plant that induces haploid cotton plants.
        26. The method of claim 25, wherein the other, different plant is a cotton plant that
comprises a haploid-inducing gene.
        27. The method of claim 23, wherein the diploid plant of step c) is generated by
subjecting the haploid progeny plant to a treatment that induces chromosome doubling in the
cultured explant.
        28. The method of claim 23, wherein the diploid plant of step c) is generated by self
pollinating the haploid progeny plant.
        29. A method for producing a cotton plant, comprising:
              (a) inducing a mutation in the cotton plant, or a part thereof, of claim 9; and,
              (b) selecting mutated cotton plants.
        30. The method of claim 29, wherein the mutation is artificially induced by a method
selected from the group consisting of elevated temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue
culture conditions, radiation, and chemical mutagenesis.
        31. A method for producing a cotton plant variety, comprising:
              (a) growing first generation hybrid cotton plants having a cotton variety
              PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been deposited under
              ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, as a parent cotton plant;
              (b) inbreeding the first generation hybrid cotton plants or crossing the first
              generation hybrid cotton plants with different cotton plants to yield progeny
              cotton seed;
              (c) growing the progeny cotton seed of step b) to yield further progeny cotton
              seed;

              (d) repeating the inbreeding or the crossing and the growing steps of b) and c)
              from about 0 to about 7 times to generate cotton varietal plants.
        32. A cotton plant variety produced by the method of claim 31.
        33. A method for producing cotton variety PHY764WRF, representative seed of the
variety having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, comprising:
              (a) planting a collection of seed comprising seed of a hybrid, one of whose
              parents is PHY764WRF, the collection also comprising seed of the variety
              PHY764WRF;
              (b) growing plants from the collection of seed;
              (c) identifying varietal parent plants;
              (d) controlling pollination in a manner that preserves the homozygosity of the
              varietal parent plant; and,
              (e) harvesting resultant seed from the identified varietal parent plant that was
              pollinated to preserve its homozygosity.
        34. The method of claim 33, wherein step (c) comprises identifying plants with
decreased vigor.
        35. A method for producing a varietal cotton plant comprising: sib-pollinating plants
obtained by growing the harvested resultant seed of step (e) of claim 33.
        36. A method for producing a varietal cotton plant comprising: crossing
PHY764WRF cotton plants with cotton plants obtained by growing the hybrid seed of step
(a) of claim 33.
        37. A method for producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising crossing a first varietal
parent cotton plant with a second varietal parent cotton plant and harvesting resultant hybrid
cotton seed, wherein the first varietal cotton plant or the second varietal cotton plant is the
cotton plant of claim 9.
        38. A method for producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising the steps of:
              (a) planting in pollinating proximity seeds of a first and a second varietal parent
              cotton plants, wherein the first varietal cotton plant or the second varietal cotton
              plant is the cotton plant of claim 9;
              (b) cultivating the seeds of the first and the second varietal cotton plants into
              plants that bear flowers;

              (c) controlling the male fertility of the first or the second varietal cotton plant to
              produce a male sterile cotton plant;
              (d) allowing cross-pollination to occur between the first and second varietal
              cotton plants; and,
              (e) harvesting seeds produced on the male sterile cotton plant.
        39. The method according to claim 38, wherein the varietal cotton plant that is the
cotton plant of claim 9 is a female parent.
40. The method according to claim 38, wherein the varietal cotton plant that is the cotton
plant of claim 9 is a male parent.
41. A hybrid cotton seed produced by the method of claim 38.
        42. A hybrid cotton plant, or parts thereof, producing by growing the hybrid cotton
seed of claim 41.
        43. A cotton seed produced by growing the cotton seed of claim 41 and harvesting
the resultant cotton seed from produced plants.
        44. A method for producing a hybrid cotton seed comprising crossing a first varietal
parent cotton plant with a second varietal parent cotton plant and harvesting the resultant
hybrid cotton seed, wherein the first varietal cotton plant or the second varietal cotton plant is
a progeny plant of a cross of the cotton plant of claim 9 and another varietal cotton plant.
        45. A hybrid cotton seed produced by the method of claim 44.
        46. A hybrid cotton plant, or parts thereof, produced by growing the hybrid cotton
seed of claim 45.
        47. A cotton seed produced by growing the cotton plant of claim 46 and harvesting
the resultant cotton seed.
        48. An F 1 hybrid seed produced by crossing the varietal cotton plant according to
claim 9 with another, different cotton plant.
        49. A hybrid cotton plant, or its parts, produced by growing the hybrid cotton seed of
claim 48.
        50. The cotton seed of claim 48, wherein the other, different plant is not a member of
the hirsutum species.
        51. The cotton seed of claim 48, wherein the other, different plant is a member of the
barbadensespecies.

        52. The cotton seed of claim 48, wherein the other, different plant is a member of a
genus Gossypium.
        53. The cotton seed of claim 48, wherein the other, different plant is a member of the
family Malvaceae.
        54. A method for producing a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant, comprising:
               (a) crossing cotton variety PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety
               having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543, with a second
               cotton plant to yield progeny cotton seed; and
               (b) growing said progeny cotton seed, under plant growth conditions, to yield
               said PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant.
        55. A PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant, or parts thereof, produced by the method
of claim 54.
        56. The method of claim 54, further comprising:
               (c) crossing the PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant with itself or another cotton
               plant to yield additional PHY764WRF-derived progeny cotton seed;
               (d) growing the progeny cotton seed of step c) under plant growth conditions, to
               yield additional PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants; and
               (e) repeating the crossing and growing steps of c) and d) from 0 to 7 times to
               generate further PHY764WRF-derived cotton plants.
        57. The method of claim 54, still further comprising utilizing plant tissue culture
methods and/or haploid breeding to derive progeny of said PHY764WRF-derived cotton
plant.
        58. A tissue culture of regenerable cells from the cotton plant of claim 9.
        59. A tissue culture according to claim 58, the cells or protoplasts of the tissue
culture being from a tissue selected from the group consisting of embryos, pollen, flowers,
seeds, linters, fibers, pods, gossypol glands, leaves, bolls, stems, roots, root tips, and anthers.
        60. A cotton plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 58, wherein the
regenerated plant expresses all the morphological and physiological characteristics of variety
PHY764WRF.
        61. A cotton plant with all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of
cotton variety PHY764WRF, wherein the cotton plant is produced by a tissue culture process
using the cotton plant of claim 9 as a starting material for the process.

         62. A tissue culture of regenerable cells from the hybrid cotton plant of claim 42.
         63. A method for regenerating a cotton plant comprising the steps of:
              (a) culturing an explant comprising a tissue selected from the group consisting
              of a tissue obtained from cotton plant variety PHY764WRF, representative seed
              of the variety having been deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543,
              an immature tissue obtained from a hybrid cotton plant having PHY764WRF as
              a parent, and a PHY764WRF-derived cotton plant; and,
              (b) initiating regeneration.
         64. The process of claim 63, wherein the explant is an immature tissue.
         65. The cotton plant of claim 9, wherein the PHY764WRF plant is rendered male
sterile.
         66. The cotton plant of claim 9, wherein the male sterile PHY764WRF plant is a
cytoplasmic male sterile plant.
         67. A method for producing a male sterile PHY764WRF cotton plant, comprising:
              (a) crossing the varietal cotton plant of claim 9, with a cytoplasmic male sterile
              cotton plant that generates haploids;
              (b) identifying haploid plants; and,
              (c) crossing the haploid plants with the varietal cotton plant PHY764WRF to
              produce male sterile PHY764WRF cotton plants.
         68. The cotton plant, or a part thereof, of claim 9, wherein the plant or part thereof
has been transformed so that its genetic material contains one or more transgenes operably
linked to one or more regulatory elements.
         69. A method for producing a cotton plant that contains in its genetic material one or
more transgenes, comprising crossing the cotton plant of claim 68 with either a second plant
of another cotton variety, or a non-transformed cotton plant of the variety PHY764WRF, so
that the genetic material of the progeny that result from the cross contains the transgene(s)
operably linked to a regulatory element.
         70. A cotton plant, or a part thereof, according to claim 9, further comprising one or
more transgenes.
         71. A cotton plant, or a part thereof, according to claim 9, wherein the plant or a
parts thereof has been transformed so that its genetic material contains one or more
transgenes operably linked to one or more regulatory elements.

        72. A cotton plant according to claim 71, wherein said one or more transgenes
comprises a gene conferring upon said cotton plant tolerance to a herbicide.
        73. A cotton plant according to claim 72, wherein said herbicide is glufosinate, a
phenoxy, a sulfonylurea or an imidazolinone herbicide, a hydroxyphenylpyruvate
dioxygenase inhibitor or a protoporphyrinogen oxidase inhibitor.
        74. A cotton plant according to claim 70, wherein the one or more transgenes
comprises a gene conferring upon said cotton plant insect resistance, disease resistance or
virus resistance.
        75. A cotton plant according to claim 74, wherein the gene conferring upon the
cotton plant insect resistance is a Bacillus thuringiensisgene.
        76. A seed of a plant according to claim 70.
        77. A cotton plant, or a part thereof, produced by the method of claim 69.
        78. A method for producing a population of PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants
comprising:
              (a)obtaining a first generation progeny cotton seed comprising the plant of claim
              9 as a parent;
              (b)growing the first generation progeny cotton seed to produce F1 generation
              cotton plants and obtaining self or sib pollinated seed from the F1 generation
              cotton plants; and,
              (c) producing successive filial generations to obtain a population of
              PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants.
        79. The population of PHY764WRF progeny cotton plants produced by the method
of claim 78, the population, on average, deriving 50% of its alleles from PHY764WRF.
        80. Lint having substantially the same characteristics of the lint produced by cotton
variety designated PHY764WRF, representative seed of the variety having been deposited
under ATCC Accession No. PTA-122543.

