ll:\gw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\GW\17096583_1.docx-I
                                 06 2018
                                                  ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a trap for animals, in particular rats or mice, and for being arranged on
a substantially horizontal face, where this meets a substantially vertical face.          The trap
comprises: a trap housing and a first flange and a second flange that are connected
substantially at right angles to the effect that the trap can be arranged in two positions, where
the substantially horizontal face meets the substantially vertical face. The flanges and the
faces of the trap span, in both positions, a volume which is delimited such as to define a
passage in which a rat or a mouse may move. The trap housing further comprises an inner
passageway that a rate or a mouse may run into, said passageway extending from the one
flange and into the trap housing. Inside the passageway there is a trigger mechanism and a
killer mechanism.

   1
50
         4
     jt)   7
   Fig. 1
     1/6

   A trap
   Background
   The entire content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application
   No. 2014359825 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
 5 The invention relates to a trap for animals, in particular rats or mice, and for
   being arranged on a substantially horizontal face, where this meets a
   substantially vertical face, said trap comprising: a first flange and a second
   flange that are connected substantially at right angles to the effect that the
   trap can be arranged in two positions, where the substantially horizontal face
10 meets the substantially vertical face.
   Rats and mice that move in built-up areas will often move along building
   walls and the like where they feel secure. For the same reason, today the
   known poisoned traps are deployed along building walls. Thus, this means
15 that the rats or the mice encounter them during their normal movements,
   following which smell lures them to eat the poison. That behaviour is
   particularly pronounced where large open spaces abound on built-up areas.
   However, it is also often seen inside buildings, or, for that matter, in closets
   or the like where the animals will also prefer to run along the walls. That
20 behaviour is enhanced if the animals can, during their movements, seek
   shelter underneath a face that adjoins the wall. In the known traps, this is
   used to advantage in that they are equipped with a passageway that the
   animals may run into.
25  i he drawbJack associated with the kiown pisodUUIIU traps i tIhat the animals
   do not die in the same location as that of the trap as the poison does not take
   effect until after a period of time. This means that the dead animals may be
   part of the natural food chain, the poison being absorbable by other animals
   such as domestic animals or birds that eat either the enfeebled and dying
30 animals or their carcasses. Moreover, the killing as such by means of
   poisoning is associated with suffering to the animals.

                                            2
   That problem can be solved by use of non-poisoned traps such as eg spring
   loaded traps that comprise a spring-released strike mechanism that kills the
   animal.
 5
   However, the drawback of such known spring-loaded strike traps is that they
   are to be serviced frequently since they are capable of killing only one
   animal. Moreover, the known spring-loaded strike traps are most often
   configured such that the animals may access the trigger mechanism from
10 several sides. The latter causes the trap to sometimes fail, the animals not
   being hit by the "striker" or being hit thereby in such a manner that they are
   not destroyed. Consequently the known spring-loaded strike traps require
   much servicing work.
15 Object and brief description of the invention
   It is an object of the invention to remedy those drawbacks.
   This is accomplished in that, in both their positions, the flanges of the trap
20 and the faces span a volume which is delimited such as to define a passage
   in which a rat or a mouse may move; said trap housing further comprising an
   inner passageway that a rat or a mouse may run into, said passageway
   extending from the one flange and into the trap housing, said passageway
   and trap housing comprising: a trigger mechanism and a killer mechanism.
25
   By configuring the trap with two flanges it is obtained that the trap can be
   arranged up against an inner wall, an outer wall or the like, to the effect that
   the one flange abuts on the wall while the other flange abuts on the support
   and hence forms a passage that a rat or a mouse can move into. As it is, it
30 has been found that rats or mice that move in the vicinity of buildings, or - for
   that matter - within them, are driven by an instinct that makes them run along

                                           3
   the inner walls or the outer walls. Moreover, experience has shown that often
   the animals have a tendency to hide in passages. This is used to advantage
   by the invention in that it forms a passage of the flanges, base and wall of the
   trap when it is arranged eg on a floor and up against a wall. Moreover, the
 5 two substantially perpendicular and identical flanges enable that the one and
   the other, respectively, of the flanges are used to stabilise the trap against
   the support.
   By configuring the housing with inner passageway extending from the one
10 flange, it is accomplished that the animals come across that passageway
   when they seek shelter in the passage, and since they feel secure in such
   place they will often explore the inner passage which is fitted with a killer
   mechanism and a trigger mechanism that kill the animals that move into the
   inner passageway.
15
   According to one embodiment, the inner passageway comprises a killer
   mechanism that acts by means of current. By configuring the killer
   mechanism as a mechanism killing by means of current, a trap is provided
   that is very fast-acting.
20
   According to one embodiment the inner passageway comprises a killer
   mechanism that acts by a striker mechanism. By configuring the killer
   mechanism as a mechanism which, eg by being spring-loaded, strikes the
   animal's nape, one accomplishes a mechanism that does not require power
25 (eg from batteries), since it can be "    Uhrd4 "by the user.
   Moreover, the configuration of the trap with a housing and an inner
   passageway means that the animal is oriented in one way when the killer
   mechanism is triggered. This means that the trap with striker function
30 provides a very high degree of reliability that the animal is killed in a fast and
    reliable manner.

                                            4
   According to an embodiment the inner passageway comprises at least two
   trigger' mechanisms that are arranged to each their side of the killer
   mechanism, which trigger mechanisms are both to be activated before the
 5 killer mechanism is triggered. By configuring the trap with two trigger
   mechanisms at a suitable distance from each other and which are both to be
   activated before the trap's killer mechanism is released, it is accomplished
   that eg a leaf or a snail/slug cannot trigger the trap, since they cannot/will not
   activate both trigger mechanisms at the same time. By furthermore arranging
10 those two trigger mechanisms to each their side of a killer mechanism, which
   may eg be a spring-loaded striker mechanism, a very high degree of
   reliability is obtained that the animal in the trap has such position that the
   killer mechanism hits the animal in an intended manner which is preferably
   such that the back of the animal is broken, and that it hence works optimally.
15
   According to one embodiment the trap comprises a bait box. By configuring
   the trap with a bait box, it is possible to provide the inner passageway with
   aromas that lure the animals into it.
20 According to one embodiment, the trap comprises a trigger mechanism that
   is released mechanically. By that embodiment it is accomplished that the
   trigger mechanism as such does not require power. Trigger mechanisms of
   that kind are well known to the person skilled in the art from prior art spring
   loaded strike traps, and hence they will not be described in further detail.
25
   According to one embodiment, the trap comprises a trigger mechanism that
   is released by an electric connection being established by the animal's body
   between the two trigger mechanisms. By that embodiment, it is ensured that
   the animal's body has a specific orientation whereby the killer mechanism
30 can be adapted to it with an ensuing increasingly reliable fatality rate.

                                            5
    According to one embodiment, the trigger mecharism of the trap comprises
    infrared sensors that are triggered by the radiation of heat from an animal. In
    other trap systems, infrared sensors have been found to provide a very high
    degree of reliability, and they will not entail erroneous firings in case of eg
 5  leaves or snail/slugs.
    According to one embodiment the inner passageway comprises at least three
    trigger mechanisms, the two of which are arranged to each their side of the
    killer mechanism, which trigger mechanisms are all to be activated in order
10  for the killer mechanism to be triggered. By configuring the trap with three
    trigger mechanisms, an even higher degree of security is obtained that the
    animal is positioned expediently relative to the killer mechanism, and the risk
    of "misses" is minimized.
15  According to one embodiment, the trap is a bait box located at the interior
    end of the inner passageway. By providing the trap with a bait box located at
    the interior end of the inner passageway, it is accomplished that the animal
    needs to move into the passageway. Hereby a high degree of reliability is
    accomplished that the animal is oriented with its nose first and up against the
20  bait box when the trigger mechanism is released. This brings about an
    increased fatality rate with a minimum of suffering to animals that are
    entering and activating the trap. By configuring the trap in this manner with a
    smell-box arranged at the interior end of the inner passageway, it is thus also
    accomplished that it is possible to locate a killer mechanism that comprises a
 Nr                             L  -  ...     L   :           -   - - L tor   1:. -
25  striker mechanism      Mi bULI a  way   Utat iL   i    trnses       tobII tU    inner
    passageway and hence to obtain that it is capable of breaking the back of an
    animal with an. increased probability of a quick kill.
    According to one embodiment, the trap comprises two light sensors and two
30  light emitters, wherein the light beams of the two light emitters hit the two
    light sensors, and the killer mechan-ism of the trap is moreover configured

                                            6
   such that it is released when the two light sensors do not register light at the
   same time. By configuring the trap in this way, a very high degree of security
   is ensured, since both of the two light beams are to be interrupted in order for
   the killer mechanism of the trap to be activated. It is further accomplished
 5 that an easy way of registering kills is provided, it being possible to print an
   event log eg via the internet or the mobile network when the trap registers
   that the two light beams are/become interrupted.
   According to one embodiment, the trigger mechanism is configured
10
   According to another aspect of the invention, it relates to a method as set
   forth in claim 13.
   The application sets forth two flanges, wherein the one flange may, of
15 course, be constituted of a sidewall of the trap housing.
   The application uses the term "striker mechanism", which is not to be
   interpreted narrowly as an actual striker; rather it also comprises a
   mechanism such as a spring-loaded bail which is known from the ordinary
20 traps where a bail is released, preferably over the animal's nape, when it
   touches an item of bait. A particular embodiment of such "bail trap" is
   described eg in US patent disclosure N. US 3055140 A.
   The application and the claims further use the term "killer mechanism". That
 5 is Intended to be a mechanism capable of       killing dii dil lidi tII
                                                                       LIi trIa or in
   the trap housing. In other words, one might say that a killer mechanism
   comprises mutually cooperating mechanical or electrical parts that, upon a
   given influence, carry out the killing. A killer mechanism is thus not eg
   conventional rat poison since that does not in itself comprise cooperating
30 mechanical or electrical parts that kill an animal in such a way that it leads to

                                             7
   death within the trap as such; but, of course, one may also use poison in
   combination with a killer mechanism.
   In the following, an embodiment of the invention will be described with
 5 reference to the figures, wherein:
   Figure 1 is a perspective view of how the trap can be arranged with the
   flange comprising the trap housing located up against a wall;
10 Figure 2 shows the trap interior with the killer mechanism in three positions;
   Figure 3 shows the trap seen from below and an insert part for the inner
   passageway;
15 Figure 4 shows the bait box with lid;
   Figure 5 shows the trap interior with a trapped animal;
   Figure 6 is a perspective view of the trap, seen from below.
20
   Figure 1 shows an embodiment of the trap (1), wherein it is located up
   against a wall.
   In the shown embodiment, the trap is arranged on an essentially horizontal
25 face, and, as will appear from the 'figure, the trap is arranged up against an
   inner wall or an outer wall (2). The trap comprises a trap housing (3) and a
   first flange (4) and a second flange (5) which are connected substantially at
   right angles to the effect that the trap can be arranged in two positions where
   the wall (2) meets the floor. It is thus depicted in the position in which the trap
30 housing abuts on the wall, and the flange (5) abuts on the floor, but it may, of
   course, also be located such that the trap housing abuts on the floor, and the

                                           8
   flange (5) abuts on the wall. When the trap is arranged in one of the two
   positions it is capable of occupying, with a flange in abutment on the wall,
   floor, wall, and flanges thus span a passage (6) which an animal (7) is
   capable of entering.
 5
   The trap housing comprises an inner passageway (8) which is best shown in
   figure 6, where the trap with bottom (9) is shown from below. The dimensions
   of the passageway may be between 45 and 55 mm, but in one embodiment it
   is about 50 mm. A rat is capable of progressing further into that passageway
10 when it has entered the passage (6).
   Thus, the animal, which need not necessarily be a rat, rather it may actually
   also be another animal such as a mouse, must, in the position of the trap
   shown in figure 1, move essentially vertically upwards in the inner
15 passageway.
   Figure 2 shows an embodiment of the trap, where its bottom plate (9) has
   been removed. Therein the killer mechanism is shown which, in the shown
   embodiment, is constituted by a blade (10) which is provided with a (not
20 necessarily sharp) serrated (11)      front. The blade (10)        is capable of
   penetrating the inner passageway through a slot (14) which will also appear
   from figure 4. Also in the shown embodiment, the inner passageway is
   configured with two lids (15, 16) that may be dismounted. This facilitates
   maintenance such as cleaning of the trap.
   As will also appear from figure 2, the trap is provided with ribs (20) that
   extend on the inner side of the flange and on into the inner passageway (best
   seen in figure 6). The object of the ribs is to facilitate the animal's travel into
   the inner passageway. In the shown embodiment, the trap is configured with
30 two flanges; but, of course, it may also be configured with three or, for that
   matter, four flanges to the effect that the animals must enter an enclosed

                                           9
   passage to reach the inner passageway. However, it has been found to be
   advantageous to configure the trap with two flanges only to thereby ensure
   that the animal will not experience that the support (or the wall (2)) changes
   nature/varies when it moves into the passage (6).
 5
   For illustrative purposes, the blade is shown in three positions 12', 12", and
   12"', and the curve (13) it follows when it is about to kill an animal in the
   passageway is shown with a dotted line. The purpose of the serrations is not
   to make the blade sharp, but rather to ensure that the force from the blade is
10 transmitted to the animal through a minimised area to thereby render it more
   efficient; but, of course, the blade 10 can also be configured to be sharp or,
   for that matter, without serrations.
   The impact energy which the blade possesses usually derives from a spring
15 (not shown) which is biased when the blade is moved from position 12"' to
   position 12'. That is normally done manually, and to facilitate that operation,
   the blade may, at its outermost end, be provided with a grip (21).
   In figure 3, the trap is shown from below with the opening into the inner
20 passageway, and below the trap as such (as shown in the figure) an adapter
   (22) is shown which may be introduced into the inner passageway (8). The
   object of that adapter is to reduce the diameter of the inner passageway. In
   the shown embodiment, the diameter is thus reduced to the size of the
   opening (23). By providing the trap with one or more associated adapters, it
25 can thus be adapted to animals of different sizes. Usually, it is a swiRI
   between rats and mice, and the diameter of the inner passage will, when the
   adapter is used, normally be about 20 mm, preferably between 16 mm and
   24 mm and more preferably between 18 mm and 22 mm.

                                            10
   Figure 4 shows an embodiment of a bait box (30), and it is shown provided
   with a lid (31) therein. Downwardly, ie in the bottom (32) of the bait box, it
   may advantageously be provided with small openings (not shown).
 5 Figure 5 illustrates how the blade of the trap will hit an animal across the
   nape when it has moved up into the inner passageway.
   Figure 6 illustrates how the trigger mechanism can be arranged in the inner
   passageway. Here, by reference numerals 40 and 41, one may just make out
10 that detectors are arranged therein. Usually such detectors are configured as
   sensors and, as one may also just make out in the illustration, there are two
   rows of sensors. One row which is arranged toward the innermost part 40,
   41' of the inner passageway, and one row 41, 41' which is located closer to
   the mouthing of the inner passageway. In the shown embodiment, they
15 function in that the one of those sensors in each row emits. light (not
   necessarily visible). Such light is "shed" onto the opposing side of the inner
   passageway which is provided with a reflective material. That reflective
   material will subsequently reflect the light at right angles, whereupon it will
   yet again hit the reflective material and again be reflected at right angles and
20 hence be shed down towards the second sensor (detector) in the row. By
   thus configuring the inner passageway with rows of light emitters and a light
   sensor, the trap's trigger mechanism can be coupled to them in such a
   manner that it releases the blade when the one or both light sensors are
   blocked by the body of an animal. By allowing the light to move in a path the
25 intersectss" the  inner  passageway bverai tiflies, Onie may accomplish a trap
   that can/will be triggered merely if the animal stands in the way of its
   light/blocks the light on its path from:
       *   light emitter towards a point on the reflective material;
       *   light from that point on the reflective material to another point on the
30         reflective material;
       *   from the second point on the reflective material to the light sensor.

                                              11
   In this context, the term "point" is not to interpreted narrowly, since it is
   usually an area.
 5 The trap may, of course, also comprise a combination of infrared sensors
   and the above-referenced system, thereby providing an even higher degree
   of reliability that the trap is not activated erroneously by eg leaves that trigger
   the "light blanket'/the light sensor system, eg as described above, since the
   triggering of the trap can thus be made to depend on both infrared sensor
10 and light blanket or other trigger mechanism being activated at the same
   time. Such system also entails the option of monitoring the trap as it may
   emit alarm to the effect that the one system shows an error (be it the infrared
   or the "light blanket" system that has been blocked/activated) and hence
   provide information about required service. That may occur eg if the trap is
15 clogged by leaves or snails/slugs (which will entail an alarm from a light
   blanket, but not from an infrared sensor). Such alarm may, of course, also be
   made to depend on the "event" taking place throughout a certain period of
   time.
20 Usually the trap will be provided with two rows of detectors (as illustrated),
   and they will usually be arranged to each their side of the area which the
   blade will hit when it is released (42). And normally the trap will be configured
   such that it releases the blade only when both trigger mechanisms are
   activated. Thereby a high degree of security is ensured since an animal
25 activating both trigger     mechanisms must     necessarily have one body part to
   each side of the hit range of the blade.
   According to one embodiment, the trigger mechanism is configured such that
   only the one row of light emitters/light sensors is turned on in normal
30 operation. Preferably it is the innermost row. When that row is activated, it
   will not trigger the blade of the trap, but rather it will turn on the second row of

                                           12
   light emitters/sensors, and only in case the latter is also activated will the
   killer mechanism of the trap also be released. By configuring the trap in this
   manner, one obtains a high degree of reliability that kill will occur, but it is
   also obtained that the trap does not spend energy on having two "eternally"
 5 active rows. Besides, the two rows that are both to be "triggered" also ensure
   that the trap's killer mechanism will not be activated by eg a leaf or a
   snaillslug "triggering" the one row.
   In all of its embodiments, the trap may have a built-in programmable
10 computer capable of storing information on status, operation, etc.
   Thus, in one embodiment, the trap is also provided with a SIM card or the like
   enabling it to communicate via eg the mobile network re operational status or
   when it has been activated. By equipping the trap with a SIM card or other
15 communication functionality it is enabled that a trap system is obtained which
   is much more easily inspected and maintained. By furthermore configuring a
   trap system of the above-referenced traps, wherein the individual traps can
   communicate with each other, a system is obtained in which the individual
   traps are monitored by each other or by a shared "master".
20
   By configuring such system with or without a master, not only the activation
   of the trap can be registered; the traps are also capable of monitoring each
   other's functionality and issue a notice if a trap no longer works correctly or
   does not work at all.
25
   Thus, such system provides enhanced reliability compared to a system in
   which the individual trap is provided with a SIM card, such system not
   providing the option of recording, with the same degree of reliability, when a
   trap is no longer working. As it is, it is in the nature of things that a broken
30 down trap is incapable of communicating its errors.

                                          13
   By allowing a number of traps in eg a built-up area to communicate with each
   other or a master, a monitoring of the traps is herein ensured to provide a
   higher degree of reliability since a broken-down trap can be registered and
   reported (via eg the mobile network) by either one of the other traps or by the
 5 master unit. Moreover, a system of mutually communicating traps in eg a
   built-up area means that not all of the traps need to be capable of
   transmitting to eg a master unit; it will suffice that one trap is capable of
   transmitting to the "master unif, and that the traps are capable of transmitting
   to each other. As it is, this means that any information regarding eg a kill will
10 be communicable between the traps and on to the "master unit" from the one
   trap that communicates with it. Thus, in such system, the master will also be
   the only one which is provided with eg a SIM card.
   By enabling the traps to communicate with each other and with a "master
15 unit", one thus provides a system of traps that will, with a high degree of
   reliability, be capable of communicating with the "master unit" to the effect
   that it will, eg via the mobile network, be able to report (eg by SMS text
   message) eg which trap in the system is not functioning properly or which
   trap has been ascertained to have animals in its surroundings as explained
20 below. Thus, the master unit may also report which trap has made a kill. The
   master unit may be constituted of an independent unit which does not
   necessarily have to be a trap; but, of course, it may also have the
   configuration of a trap.
   2 eference ueii1ng made to figure  1, a further   Leature" may be dUUU iu me
   above embodiments, it being possible, as will appear by means of reference
   numeral (50), on the side of the trap that faces away from the wall (2), to
   arrange a further detector, such as eg a camera or a movement sensor as it
   is known eg from burglar alarms, designated collectively "detector" in the
30 following.

                                         14
   As shown in the figure, the view of that detector goes out into the room, and
   that is associated with the advantage that the trap is also capable of
   monitoring whether there are animals that, for some reason or other, do not
   enter the trap. Thus, the internal computer may also be programmed to
 5 record a movie every time the detector/camera is activated. Moreover, the
   detector can be coupled via communication explained above to the effect that
   a user is also able to connect to the camera if he/she needs eg to check
   status.
10 In sections (page 10 and onwards) trap systems with or without a "master"
   are described. Those systems can also be used to advantage in other traps
   than the ones subject to the present invention. Thus, they may operate
   independently of trap type and may hence also be made the object of one or
   more independent patent applications.
15
   According to an aspect of the invention, it relates to a method for using the
   trap according to claims 1-12, whereby the trap is to be placed such that the
   animal must move upwards to inter the inner passage.

                                             15
   Claims
   1. A trap for animals, in particular rats or mice, and for being arranged on a
   substantially horizontal face, where this meets a substantially vertical face,
 5 said trap comprising:
       * a trap housing;
       * a first flange and a second flange that are connected substantially at
           right angles to the effect that the trap can be arranged in two positions,
           where the substantially horizontal face, meets the substantially vertical
10         face; characterised in that the flanges of the trap and the faces, in
           both positions, span a volume which is delimited such as to define a
           passage in which a rat or a mouse may move;
       0 said trap housing further comprising an inner passageway that a rat or
15         a mouse may run into, said passageway extending from the one
           flange and into the trap housing, said passageway and trap housing
           comprising:
       *   a trigger mechanism and a killer mechanism.
20
   2. A trap according to claim 1, characterised in that the inner passageway
   comprises a killer mechanism acting by current.
   3. A trap according to claim 1, characterised in that the inner passageway
25 comprises a killer mechanism acting by a striker mechanism.
   4. A trap according to any one of claims 1-3 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the inner passageway comprises at least two trigger
   mechanisms that are arranged to each their side of the killer mechanism,
30 which trigger mechanisms are both to be activated before the killer
   mechanism is released.

                                          16
   5. A trap according to any one of claims 1-4 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trap comprises a bait box.
 5 6. A trap according to any one of claims 1-4 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trap comprises a trigger mechanism that is
   released mechanically.
   7. A trap according to claim 4, characterised in that the trap comprises a
10 trigger mechanism that is released by an electric connection being
   established between the two trigger mechanisms by the animal's body.
   8. A trap according to any one of claims 1-4 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trigger mechanism of the trap comprises infrared
15 sensors that are triggered by the radiation of heat from an animal.
   9. A trap according to any one of claims 1-8 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the inner passageway comprises at least three trigger
   mechanisms, the two of which are arranged to each their side of the killer
20 mechanism, which trigger mechanisms are all to be activated in order for the
   killer mechanism to be released.
   10. A trap according to any one of claims 1-9 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trap comprises a bait box located at the interior
25 end of the inner passageway.
   11. A trap according to any one of claims 4-10 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trap's trigger mechanism comprises two light
   sensors and two light emitters, wherein the light of the two light emitters hits
30 the two light sensors, and that the killer mechanism of the trap is released
   when the two light sensors do not register light at the same time.

                                         17
   12. A trap according to any one of claims 1-11 individually or in combination,
   characterised in that the trap comprises a control unit controlling activation
   of the trigger and killer mechanisms and/or being configured for controlling
 5 communication.
   13. A method of using a trap according to at least one of the preceding
   claims, whereby the trap is to be placed such that the animal must move
   upwards to enter an inner passageway.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
