 5
                                       ABSTRACT
   A carriage for receiving and retaining at least one water delivery nozzle. The
10 carriage comprises a body defining a space which receives and retains therein the
   at least one water delivery nozzle. The carriage includes support means extending
   from the carriage body which when the carriage is inserted in a pipe engages an
   inner surface of the pipe. The carriage further comprises at least one formation
   which enables the nozzles to be disposed at a predetermined angle relative to the
15 longitudinal axis of the pipe in which the carriage travels.
20
                                             1

   ID
-1
      th

     ASSEMBLY FOR IMPROVING REMOVAL FROM A PIPE OF DEBRIS SUCH
              A ROOTS AND SCALE USING A WATER JET NOZZLE
 5  BACKGROUND
   [0001] The present invention relates to apparatuses for removing debris such as
   roots and scale build up from the inside of fluid pipes. More particularly the
   present invention relates to water nozzle carriage assemblies for use in high
10 pressure water cleaning of the inside of pipes. The invention further relates to an
   assembly including a carriage for high pressure nozzles used in pipe cleaning and
   which enables adjustment the angular attitude of the nozzle and in particular the
   range of angles of attack of water jets which impact on an inner wall of a pipe or
   direction of water jets delivered from the nozzles. The invention relates to a
15 method for cleaning the inside of fluid pipes by selective adjustment of the angle
   of delivery of water jets.
   PRIOR ART:
20 [0002] Various apparatus and methods have been employed in the past for
   removing unwanted tree roots in water, sewerage or drainage pipes. Tree roots
   can destroy pipes and block the passage of water or sewage therethrough.
   Various pipe materials have been used in the past for sewerage, drainage and
   water reticulation networks. For sewage pipe networks materials such as cast
25 iron, galvanised iron, clay and plastics have been used. The weakest part of a
   pipe network is usually the location of the pipe joins. Tree roots are opportunistic
   and are likely to be encountered where a pipe leaks, or at a faulty join. Water
   delivery pipes tend to be less susceptible to root penetration, as they are usually
   formed from continuous copper lines which have few joins. Drainage pipes
30 which carry sewage or drainage water are particularly vulnerable to root
   penetration if a join is compromised, as roots can more easily detect the presence
   of water. Roots can also damage pipe joins and enter the pipe via that join. Plant
   and tree roots found in pipes are usually the fibrous variety. They can be very
                                             1

   hard to dislodge especially as they are alive having been fed by water in the
   pipes.
   [0003] Various apparatuses have been employed for root removal from pipes.
 5 One such method employs an electrically driven spinning cutter which is located
   on a free end of a long feed line. The feed line which is fed into a pipe,
   terminates at a drive motor and spins the feed line about a longitudinal axis and
   at the same time advancing the line along the pipe. As the cutters rotate and
   advance, they cut through roots and any other blockage. One problem with this
10 method of root removal is that it is not assisted by water flushing unless an
   operator feeds a water supply hose into the pipe. The water in this instance plays
   no role in severing the roots but rather if used, it flushes cut roots downstream of
   the blockage. Other methods have been used such as feeding rods through a pipe
   and attempting to push the blockage away manually. Another method has been to
15 feed a hose into the pipe and send high pressure water along the pipe in an
   attempt to flush the blockage. The use of rods and sending high pressure water
   along the pipe have only limited benefit and although they may be useful in
   removing a dry choke or amorphous mass soft choke which is not physically
   attached to the pipe, there is insufficient force available to sever roots which are
20 often anchored from outside the pipe.
   [0004] Fibrous roots are the most common cause of root blockage in a water
   carrying pipe such as a drainage or sewer pipe. These are fine roots which can
   enter a pipe from outside via a small crack in a pipe or in a pipe join. In some
25 cases the roots can surround the outside of a pipe and eventually cause a
   breakage in the pipe in which case the opportunistic fibrous roots, grow into the
   pipe as they follow moisture. Tap roots are the lost likely to cause mechanical
   damage to the pipe and once that occurs the fibrous roots grow towards the
   moisture in the pipe. Once fibrous roots take hold, they can totally block the
30 inside diameter of the pipe.
                                             2

   [0005] More recently, the plumbing industry has employed high pressure nozzles
   operating around 200 bar ( 5000psi), which are fed into pipes on the end of a
   high pressure water supply line. The purpose of these nozzles is to deliver water
   at such high pressure that the roots inside the blocked pipe are eroded away by
 5 shredding or breaking. These high pressure nozzles are also used in de scaling of
   the internal surfaces of pipe in cases where build up of unwanted scale and other
   organic and mineral debris can reduce the effective diameter of the pipes and in
   extreme cases eventually block the pipe altogether.
10 [0006] Typically, these high pressure nozzles have strategically placed openings
   which direct water in fine jets to create a high energy impact on a pipe wall to
   remove scale and mineral build up. Another known high pressure pipe cleaning
   nozzle includes a rotating head which has exit ports in the head disposed at
   various angles allowing the water to exit rearwardly, normally and ahead of the
15 nozzle in its advancing direction. Typically the nozzles are placed in a carriage
   which allows the nozzle to slide along the bottom of the pipe as it advances. One
   of the disadvantages of the known nozzles is that the angles pre set in the nozzle
   body or rotating head cannot be adjusted or stabilised from the delivery angles
   which are available once the nozzle is inserted into the carriage. The carriage has
20 fixed bearing legs which hold the nozzle just above the bottom of the pipe in
   which it is travelling.
   [0007] The longitudinal axis of the nozzles will typically be parallel with the
   longitudinal axis of the pipe. There are no means currently available to adjust the
25 attitude or orientation of the nozzle so as to optimise angles of water jet attack.
   The angle that the water jet impacts on its target will influence the efficiency of
   the water jet. For example, a water jet which exits normally from a nozzle will
   not have the same abrasive or cutting force compared to a water jet which
   approaches its target at an angle.      The current tool is unstable, erratic and
30 unpredictable.
                                            3

   [0008] There is a long felt want in the field to provide an improvement to the
   existing method using high pressure nozzles by providing means to enable a user
   to adjust the water jet angles to optimise surface abrasion for cleaning purposes
   and to enable selection of an optimal approach angle to enable the most efficient
 5 debridement and cutting of roots.      Furthermore there is a need to provide an
   alternative apparatus which is simple to operate, is adaptable to existing water jet
   nozzles, does not require power, is inexpensive to manufacture, can be mass
   produced, is durable, takes up little space and requires a minimum of mental and
   physical effort to set up. There is also a need to provide an apparatus which
10 allows a user to set the nozzle and bore so the water jet will impact on roots at a
   selected angle.
   INVENTION:
15 [0009] With the above shortcomings of the prior art in mind, the             present
   invention provides an apparatus for removing debris such as roots and scale build
   up from the inside of fluid pipes using selectively angled nozzles. More
   particularly the present invention provides a water nozzle carriage assemblies for
   use in high pressure water cleaning of the inside of a pipe. The invention further
20 provides an assembly including a carriage for high pressure nozzles used in pipe
   cleaning and which enables adjustment to the angular attitude of the nozzle and
   in particular the range of available angles of attack of water jets which impact on
   an inner wall of a pipe.
25 [0010] The invention further provides a method for cleaning the inside of fluid
   pipes by selective adjustment of the angle at which water is delivered from the
   nozzle;    the carriage further comprising support members which support the
   carriage against the pipe and manage angles and tracking. The invention further
   provides an assembly including a carriage for high pressure nozzles used in pipe
30 cleaning and which enables carriage of back to back nozzles disposed at a
   selected attitude dictated by the geometry of the carriage. The carriage allows the
                                             4

   nozzle or nozzles in the case of back to back nozzles to be orientated to present a
   water jet for optimal inner wall pipe cleaning. The invention further provides a
   method for cleaning the inside of fluid pipes by using a carriage which supports
   one or two nozzles which deliver a water jet.
 5
   [0011] In its broadest form the present invention comprises:
   a support carriage for receiving and retaining at least one a water delivery nozzle
   used in high pressure pipe cleaning, the carriage comprising:
10  a support body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least
   one water delivery nozzle,
   the carriage body including at least one formation [means] which allows a water
   delivery orifice of each of the at least one nozzles to be set at a fluid delivery
   angle relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe in which the support carriage is
15 placed, the carriage body thereby allowing a water jet exiting each said nozzles to
   contact an inner surface of the pipe at an angle which optimises removal of debris
   from the inside of the pipe under the action of the water jets; and wherein the
   weight of the carriage is statically      balanced so the carriage stays in balance
   irrespective of the attitude setting of the carriage assembly.
20
   [0012] According to one embodiment the angle selection apparatus contributes to
   nozzle tracking. Throughout the specification a reference to adjustable can be
   taken to include removable, re positionable and any form of adjustment which
   results in a change in attitude of the longitudinal axis of the nozzle relative to the
25 longitudinal axis of the pipe.
   [0013] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
   a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
   comprising:
30  a body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water delivery
   nozzle,
                                               5

   the carriage further comprising adjustable/replacable legs connected to the
   carriage body which enable selective extension and retraction of each leg to
   contribute to adjustment of the angle of impact of water jets emanating from the
   nozzle. Extension and retraction can be achieved in a variety of ways including
 5 but not limited to rotation, extension and re positioning. Lateral stability can be
   enhanced by leg adjustment. A reference to legs can also be taken to include a
   reference to fins or the like.
   [0014] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
10 an assembly for use in the removal of debris, roots and other unwanted matter
   from the inside of a fluid pipe, the assembly comprising:
   a water delivery nozzle,
   a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
   comprising:
15  a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   adjustable members associated with the carriage body enabling selective
   adjustment of the attitude of the delivery nozzles to thereby enable selection of
   an optimal angle of impact of a water jet exiting the nozzle onto debris to be
20 removed from the pipe.
   [0015] Preferably the nozzle is a high pressure water delivery nozzle which can
   include nozzles of a known type. According to a preferred embodiment the
   adjustable members engage the carriage and are repositionable to enable
25 alteration of the angular relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe
   and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle.
   [0016] According to a preferred embodiment the adjustable members engage the
   carriage and are repositionable to enable alteration of the angular relationship
   between a longitudinal axis of the pipe and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle.
30
   [0017] In another broad form of a method aspect the present invention comprises:
                                             6

   a method of removing debris from the inside of a fluid pipe using a high pressure
   water delivery nozzle including;
   a carriage for receiving and retaining the water delivery nozzle, the carriage
 5 comprising:
    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   adjustable members associated with the carriage body enabling selective
   adjustment of the attitude of the delivery nozzle;
10 the method comprising the steps of
   a) taking the carriage and inserting a selected nozzle into the carriage;
   b) selecting an attitude from the nozzle but selective adjustment to the adjustable
   members
15 c) placing the assembly inside a pipe and activating a water supply to the nozzle;
   wherein the selected attitude of the nozzle delivers water towards an inside
   surface of the pipe at an angle dictated by the selected attitude.
   [0018] The angle at which the water jets are delivered to the pipe is preferably
20 selected to optimise the angle of attack of the debris sought to be removed.
   In another broad form of a method aspect, the present invention comprises:
    [0019] The carriage may be manufactured from metals fit for the purpose or in a
    mould from a flexible plastics material which may be selected from materials
25  including polypropylene, polyethylene, rubbers including silicon. Preferably,
    the material is sufficiently stiff to ensure that the nozzle is maintained in the
    correct attitude. The weight of the carriage must be balanced so the carriage
    stays in equilibrium irrespective of the setting of the carriage assembly. The
    carriage can be set at or near the invert of a pipe which is usually the opposite
30  side that roots penetrate the pipe.
                                             7

   [0020] In its broadest form the present invention comprises:
   a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
   comprising:
    a body defining a space which receives and retains therein at least one water
 5 delivery nozzle,
   a saddle which receives and retains the nozzles on the carriage,
   a bearing surface on the carriage which allows the carriage to travel along a pipe
   invert during discharge of water from the at least one nozzles.
10 [0021] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
   a carriage for receiving and retaining at least one water delivery nozzle, the
   carriage comprising:
    a body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least one water
   delivery nozzle,
15 a saddle to retain the nozzles and support means associated with the carriage
   body to enable the carriage to move along a pipe invert; wherein the carriage
   further comprises a formation which enables the nozzles to be disposed at a
   predetermined angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the pipe in which the
   carriage travels.
20
   [0022] In another broad form the present invention comprises:
   an assembly for use in the removal of debris, roots and other unwanted matter
   from the inside of a fluid pipe, the assembly comprising:
   a water delivery nozzle,
25 a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
   comprising:
    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   a formation associated with the carriage body enabling the nozzle to be disposed
30 in a fixed attitude so that water exiting the nozzle impacts on the inside wall of a
   pipe at an optimal angle onto debris to be removed from the pipe.
                                              8

   Preferably the nozzle is a high pressure water delivery nozzle which can include
   nozzles of a known type. According to a preferred embodiment the carriage has
   a geometry which enables a fixed angular relationship between a longitudinal
   axis of the pipe and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle.
 5
   [0023] In another broad form of a method aspect the present invention comprises:
   a method of removing debris from the inside of a fluid pipe using a high pressure
   water jet nozzle assembly comprising;
   a carriage for receiving and retaining at least one water delivery nozzle, the
10 carriage comprising:
    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least
   one water delivery nozzle,
   a formation on the body allowing the at least one nozzles to be oriented in a
   predetermined attitude relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe to thereby allow
15 water to be delivered at predetermined angle;
   the method comprising the steps of
   a) taking the carriage and inserting at least one nozzle into the carriage so that the
   at least one nozzle lies at the predetermined angle;
   b) placing the assembly inside a pipe and activating a water supply to the nozzle;
20 wherein the selected attitude of the nozzle delivers water towards an inside
   surface of the pipe at an angle dictated by the selected attitude.
   [0024] The angle at which the formation in the carriage allows water jets to be
   delivered to the pipe is preferably selected by arranging the formation to optimise
25 the angle of attack of water against the debris sought to be removed.
    [0025] The carriage may be manufactured from metals fit for the purpose or in a
    mould from a flexible plastics material which may be selected from materials
    including polypropylene, polyethylene, rubbers including silicon. Preferably,
30  the material is sufficiently stiff to ensure that the nozzle is maintained in the
    correct attitude. The weight of the carriage must be balanced so the carriage
                                              9

   stays in equilibrium irrespective of the setting of the carriage assembly. The
   carriage can be set at or near the invert of a pipe which is usually the opposite
   side that which roots penetrate the pipe.
 5 [0026] The present invention provides an alternative to the known prior art and
   the shortcomings identified. The foregoing and other objects and advantages
   will appear from the description to follow. In the description reference is made
   to the accompanying representations, which forms a part hereof, and in which is
   shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may
10 be practised. These embodiments will be described in sufficient detail to enable
   those skilled in the art to practise the invention, and it is to be understood that
   other embodiments may be utilized and that structural changes may be made
   without departing from the scope of the invention. In the accompanying
   illustrations, like reference characters designate the same or similar parts
15 throughout the several views. The following detailed description is, therefore,
   not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is best
   defined by the appended claims.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
20
   [0027] Figure 1 shows a side elevation view of an assembly according to one
   embodiment.
   Figure 2 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly according to one
   embodiment with four removable legs and mounted in a pipe also shown in
25 cross section.
   Figure 3 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly according to an
   alternative embodiment with two removable legs and mounted in a pipe also
   shown in cross section.
   Figure 4 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly according to another
30 embodiment with two adjustable legs and mounted in a pipe also shown in cross
   section.
                                            10

   Figure 5 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly according to an
   alternative embodiment with an alternative carriage and four adjustable legs and
   mounted in a pipe also shown in cross section.
 5  Figure 6 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly according to an
   alternative embodiment with an alternative carriage and three adjustable legs
   and mounted in a pipe also shown in cross section.
   Figure 7 shows a long sectional view through a pipe and debris removal
10 assembly therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the longitudinal axis
   of a pipe of 85mm diameter and showing an impact distance from nozzle exit.
   Figure 8 shows a long sectional view through a pipe and debris removal
   assembly therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the longitudinal axis
15 of a pipe of 103mm diameter and showing an impact distance from nozzle exit.
   Figure 9 shows a long sectional view through a pipe and debris removal
   assembly therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the longitudinal axis
   of a pipe of 152mm diameter and showing an impact distance from nozzle exit.
20
   Figure 10 shows a perspective view of a carriage assembly according to one
   embodiment.
   Figure 11 shows a perspective view of a carriage assembly holding two
   opposing high pressure     water jet    nozzles  according to    an alternative
25 embodiment.
   Figure 12 shows a plan view of the carriage assembly of figure 2 according to
   an alternative embodiment with fixed attitude formation.
   Figure 13 shows the assembly of figure 3 from a side elevation and rotated 90
   degrees.
30 Figure 14 shows a perspective view of a carriage according to an alternative
   embodiment.
                                         11

   Figure 15 shows an alternative perspective view of the embodiment of figure
   14.
   Figure 16 shows an end elevation view of the carriage of figure 14; and
   Figure 17 shows a cross section through A-A of figure 17.
 5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0028] The examples referred to herein are illustrative and are not to be
   regarded as limiting the scope of the invention. While various embodiments of
10 the invention have been described herein, it will be appreciated that these are
   capable of modification, and therefore the disclosures herein are not to be
   construed as limiting of the precise details set forth, but to avail such changes
   and alterations as fall within the purview of the description.
15 [0029] Throughout the specification a reference to a carriage can be taken to
   mean a device which receives and retains the water nozzle and which includes
   an opening in which the nozzle is inserted and also which in respect to the
   invention allows selective adjustment of the repose angle of the carriage relative
   to a longitudinal axis of the pipe in which the carriage is inserted.
20
   [0030] Figure 1 shows a side elevation view of an assembly 1 for use in the
   removal of debris, roots and other unwanted matter from the inside of a fluid
   pipe.   Assembly 1 comprises a water delivery nozzle 3, a carriage 4 for
   receiving and retaining     water delivery nozzle 3. The carriage 4 comprises a
25 carriage body 5 defining a space 6 which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle 3. Assembly 1 further comprises adjustable members 7 and 8
   associated with carriage body 5. Adjustable members 7 and 8 are preferably
   detachably fixed to respective carriage support legs 9 and 10 and enable
   selective adjustment of the attitude of the delivery nozzles to enable selection of
30 an optimal angle of impact of a water jet exiting the nozzle 3 onto debris to be
   removed from an internal surface of a pipe in which assembly 1 is located.
                                            12

   Nozzle 3 is a high pressure water delivery nozzle which can include nozzles of a
   known type.
   [0031] According to a preferred embodiment the adjustable members 7 and 8
 5 engage the carriage and are repositionable to enable alteration of the angular
   relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe and a longitudinal axis of
   the nozzle. This enables water jets emanating from the nozzle to be disposed at
   a desired angle. Nozzle 3 is fed water through supply line 13 which engages
   nozzle 3 via a return portion 11. This arrangement allows debris cut or abraded
10 by the water jets to travel in a direction opposite to the direction of feed of the
   assembly 1 into the pipe. This stops the advancing assembly from becoming
   clogged with removed debris and /or roots and ensures that the advancing
   assembly is not obstructed. Adjustable member 7 as shown is secured via bolts
   12 to carriage body 5. Adjustable member 8 is welded.           Typically in use a
15 front nozzle cuts a hole in a root clump and a back nozzle cuts the remaining
   roots and washes away the debris.
   [0032] Figure 2 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly 20 according to
   another embodiment. Assembly 20          comprises a water delivery nozzle 21, a
20 carriage 22 for receiving and retaining water delivery nozzle 21. The carriage
   22 comprises a carriage body opening which receives and retains therein the
   water delivery nozzle 21. Assembly 20 further comprises adjustable assemblies
   24, 25, 26 and 27 which respectively receive and retain adjustable legs 28, 29,
   30 and 31. Leg 28 is retained by bolt 32 and is capable of movement within
25 recess 33. Likewise legs 29, 30 and 31 are respectively retained by bolts 34, 35
   and 36 and operate in a similar manner to that described with respect to leg 28.
   Legs 28, 29, 30 and 31 enable selective adjustment of the attitude of the
   delivery nozzles to enable selection of an optimal angle of impact of a water jet
   exiting the nozzle 21.
30
                                             13

   [0033] Adjustable legs 28, 29, 30 and 31 are repositionable to enable alteration
   of the angular relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe indicated by
   dot 23 and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle. This enables water jets emanating
   from the nozzle to be disposed at a desired angle. Nozzle 21 is fed water
 5 through supply line 40 which engages nozzle 21 via a return portion 41. This
   stops the advancing assembly from becoming clogged with removed debris and
   /or roots and ensures that the advancing assembly is not obstructed. Arrow 42
   shows water direction through line 40.
10 [0034] Figure 3 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly 50 according to an
   alternative embodiment with two removable legs and mounted in a pipe 63 also
   shown in cross section. Assembly 50 comprises a water delivery nozzle 51, a
   carriage 52 for receiving and retaining water delivery nozzle 51. The carriage
   assembly includes a carriage body 53 receives and retains therein the water
15 delivery nozzle 51. Assembly 50 further comprises adjustable members 54 and
   55 which respectively receive and retain adjustable legs 58 and 59. Non
   adjustable members are 56 and 57.
   [0035] Adjustable members 58 and 59 are retained by bolts 60 and 61. Leg 58 is
20 retained by bolt 60 and is capable of movement within slot 62. Likewise leg 59
   is retained by bolt 61. This operates in a similar manner to that described with
   respect to leg 58. Legs 58 and 59, enable selective adjustment of the attitude of
   the delivery nozzle 51 to enable selection of an optimal angle of impact of a
   water jet exiting the nozzle 51. Carriage body is repositionable to enable
25 alteration of the angular relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe
   and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle 51. This enables water jets emanating from
   the nozzle to be disposed at a desired angle. Nozzle 51 is fed water via supply
   line 38 which engages nozzle 51 via a return portion 39.
30 [0036] Figure 4 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly 70 according to an
   alternative embodiment with two welded legs and mounted in a pipe also shown
                                           14

   in cross section. Assembly 70 is mounted in pipe 77 and comprises a water
   delivery nozzle 71, a carriage 72 for receiving and retaining       water delivery
   nozzle 71. Carriage 72 includes two welded legs 73 and 74 and adjustable legs
   75 and 76. Adjustable legs 75 and 76 are retained by friction grip, or bolting as
 5 required. Legs 75 and 76 are adjustable in respective slots 77 and 78. Legs 75
   and 76, enable selective adjustment of the attitude of the carriage 72 to enable
   selection of an optimal angle of impact of a water jet exiting the nozzle 71.
   Carriage 72 is repositionable to enable alteration of the angular relationship
   between a longitudinal axis of the pipe and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle 71.
10 This enables water jets emanating from the nozzle to be disposed at a desired
   angle. Nozzle 71 is fed water via supply line 79 which engages nozzle 71 via a
   return portion 80.
   [0037] Figure 5 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly 90 according to
15 another embodiment with four adjustable legs and mounted in a pipe also shown
   in cross section. Assembly 90 is mounted in pipe 91 and comprises a water
   delivery nozzle 92, a carriage 93 for receiving and retaining water delivery
   nozzle 92. Carriage 93 includes body part 94 to which is connected adjustable
   legs 95, and 96 and body part 97 to which is connected legs 98 and 99..
20 Adjustable legs 95, 96, 98 and 99 are retained by bolting or by friction grip, as
   required and are adjustable to enable selection of the attitude of the carriage 93
   to enable selection of an optimal angle of impact of a water jet exiting the
   nozzle 92. Carriage 93 is repositionable to enable alteration of the angular
   relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe and a longitudinal axis of
25 the nozzle 92. This enables water jets emanating from the nozzle to be disposed
   at a desired angle.
   [0038] Figure 6 shows a cross sectional view of an assembly 100 according to
   an alternative embodiment.      Assembly 100 is mounted in pipe 101 and
30 comprises a water delivery nozzle 102, a carriage 103 for receiving and
   retaining water delivery nozzle 102. Carriage 103 includes body part 104 to
                                           15

   which is connected adjustable leg 105, body part 106 to which is connected
   adjustable leg 107 and body part 108 to which is connected adjustable leg 109.
   Adjustable legs 105, 106, 107 and 108 are retained by bolting or by friction
   grip, as required and are adjustable to enable selection of the attitude of the
 5 carriage 103 to enable selection of an optimal angle of impact of a water jet
   exiting the nozzle 102.
   [0039] Figure 7 shows a long sectional view through a pipe 82 and debris
   removal assembly 83 therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the
10 longitudinal axis 84 of a pipe 82. Pipe 82 is shown with a diameter of 85mm. In
   the embodiment shown, the inner wall receives the full spray circle at
   approximately 200mm impact distance from the outlet of nozzle 85. Nozzle 85
   is located in carriage 86 which can be adjusted to alter the attitude of nozzle 85.
   Nozzle 85 can be any nozzle including a turbo type nozzle.
15
   [0040] Figure 8 shows a long sectional view through a pipe 120 and debris
   removal assembly 123 therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the
   longitudinal axis 121 of a pipe 120 relative to axis 126 of nozzle 122. . Pipe 120
   is shown with a diameter of 103mm. In the embodiment shown, the inner wall
20 receives the full spray circle at approximately 243mm impact distance from the
   outlet of nozzle 122. Nozzle 122 is located in carriage 125 which can be
   adjusted to alter the attitude of nozzle 122.
   [0041] Figure 9 shows a long sectional view through a pipe 130 and debris
25 removal assembly 131 therein with the assembly disposed at an angle to the
   longitudinal axis 132 of a pipe 130 relative to axis 136. Pipe 130 is shown with
   a diameter of 152mm. In the embodiment shown, the inner wall receives the full
   spray circle at approximately 356mm impact distance from the outlet of nozzle
   133. Nozzle 133 is located in carriage 134 which can be adjusted to alter the
30 attitude of nozzle 133.
                                             16

    [0042] It can be seen from figures 7, 8, 9 that if the direction of the water jet
   emanating from a nozzle is angled relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe in
   which the nozzle is located, the impact on the inner surface of the pipe wall or
   on any roots or other debris extending from that wall will be earlier and greater
 5 in comparison to a nozzle disposed such that its longitudinal axis is parallel to
   the longitudinal axis of the pipe.  Various means for enabling an adjustment to
   the angle of repose of the carriage have been described above but it will be
   appreciated that other means can be employed to enable an elevation of the
   outlet of the nozzle to achieve the improved energy of contact and earlier
10 contact with debris, scale and other unwanted material. The user is able to set
   the carriage legs so that when the nozzle is inserted into the carriage the exit of
   the nozzle will be pointing at an angle selected from the particular job. A
   camera can be inserted into the pipe to make an assessment of an appropriate
   location of water jet impact and therefore the best angle of repose for the
15 carriage to achieve the optimal contact for the particular job.
    [0043] Figure 10 shows a perspective view of a carriage assembly 140
   according to one embodiment for use in the removal of debris, roots and other
   unwanted matter from the inside of a fluid pipe. Assembly 140 comprises a
20 water delivery nozzle 143, a carriage 142 for receiving and retaining        water
   delivery nozzle 143. The carriage 142 comprises a carriage body 144 defining a
   space 145 defined by saddle 146. which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle 143. Carriage       142 enables nozzle to be disposed in a
   predetermined orientation relative to a longitudinal axis of a pipe ( not shown).
25 Nozzle 143 is preferably detachably fixed to carriage. According to this
   embodiment, when the carriage is located on a pipe invert, water is delivered via
   orifice 147 along the pipe so that the water jet forms a cleaning circumference
   such that the attitude allows selection of an optimal angle of impact of a water
   jet exiting the nozzle via orifice 147 and which is generally normal to the
30 longitudinal axis of the pipe. Nozzle 143 is a high pressure water delivery
   nozzle which can include nozzles of a known type. Nozzle 143 is fed water
                                           17

   through supply line ( not shown) which engages nozzle 143. This arrangement
   allows debris cut or abraded by the water jets to travel in a direction opposite to
   the direction of feed of the assembly 141 into the pipe. This stops the advancing
   assembly from becoming clogged with removed debris and /or roots and
 5 ensures that the advancing assembly is not obstructed. Typically in use a front
   nozzle cuts a hole in a root clump and a back nozzle cute the remaining roots
   and washes away the debris of going upstream washes away the debris.
    [0044] Figure 11 shows a perspective view of the carriage assembly 240
10 according to an alternative embodiment. Assembly 240 comprises a first water
   delivery nozzle 241 and a second nozzle 242 both of which are mounted on a
   carriage 243. Carriage 243 comprises a carriage body 244 defining a space 245
   defined by saddle 246 which receives and retains therein the water delivery
   nozzles 241 and 242. Carriage 243 enables nozzles 241 and 242 to be disposed
15 in a predetermined orientation relative to a longitudinal axis of a pipe 247.
   Nozzles 41 and 242 are preferably detachably fixed to carriage 243. According
   to this embodiment, when the carriage is located on a pipe invert, water is
   delivered via orifice 248 of nozzle 241 and orifice 249 of nozzle 242.
20  [0045] Figure 12 shows with corresponding numbering, a plan view of the
   carriage assembly of figure 11 according to an alternative embodiment with
   fixed attitude formation. Assembly 240 when in a transverse plane, lies parallel
   to a longitudinal axis of pipe 47. Nozzles 241 and 242 deliver respective water
   jets 250 and 251 in opposite directions so that as carriage 240 moves along the
25 pipe 247, the water jets form a cleaning circumference with the carriage
   geometry dictating the angle of attack relative to the pipe wall.     Nozzles 241
   and 242 are high pressure water delivery nozzles which can include nozzles of a
   known type. This arrangement allows debris cut or abraded by the water jets to
   be cut and flushed as the carriage moves through the pipe. This stops the
30 assembly from becoming clogged with removed debris and /or roots and
   ensures that the assembly is not obstructed.
                                           18

   [0046] Figure 13 shows with corresponding numbering the assembly of figure
   12 from a side elevation and rotated ninety degrees. Assembly 240 when viewed
   from the side reveals that a line drawn through each nozzle exit is disposed at an
 5 angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the pipe This has be effect of altering
   the water contact circumference for each nozzle on the inside wall of the pipe in
   a vertical plane as shown in figure 12. Nozzles 241 and 242 deliver respective
   water jets 250 and 251 in opposite directions so that as carriage 240 moves
   along the pipe 247, the water jets form a cleaning circumference 252 which
10 contacts the whole internal periphery of the pipe and a second downwardly
   directed circumference 253 which contacts part of the internal surface 254 of
   the pipe. The downwardly directed jet 251 in this instance does not contact
   upper surface 254 of pipe 247 . It can be seen from figure 13 that if the direction
   of the water jets 250 and 251 emanating from respective nozzles 241 and 242
15 is set relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe 247 in which the nozzle is
   located, it will impact of the location and extent of the circumferential rings and
   on the inner surface 254 of the pipe wall.
   [0047] Figure 14 shows a perspective view of a carriage according to an
20 alternative embodiment. Referring to Figure 14 there is shown a carriage 320
   including a carriage body 321 from which extend fins 322, 323 and 324
   preferably disposed at 320 degree spacing ( best shown in figure 16). It will be
   appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the fin spacing can be altered
   according o particular requirements. Alternative fin spacing angles would
25 enable alteration in the attitude of the carriage and height of the nozzles which
   in turn can alter the impact of water jets exiting nozzles. Located in carriage
   body 321 are high pressure water jet nozzles 325, 326 and 327. Nozzles 325,
   326, 327 and 332 may be arranged to face opposite directions or alternatively
   the same direction depending upon debridement requirements. As shown in
30 figure 14 nozzle     325 is disposed at an inclined angle relative to longitudinal
   axis 129 through carriage 320. Due to the geometry of the fins the carriage is
                                             19

   also inclined relative to a longitudinal axis of a pipe ( not shown) in which the
   carriage is placed for debridement.
   [0048] The attitude of the nozzles can be adjusted by facing the carriage in a
 5 opposite direction or rotating the carriage 320 degrees. Fin 323 has a wide end
   330 and a narrow end 331. Each of fins also have a narrow portion 328 and a
   wider portion 329 which places the carriage at a predetermined angle dictated
   by the extent of the difference in height at one end of each fin compared to the
   height at the opposite end of the fin. This naturally changes the angle of repose
10 depending on the direction that carriage 320 is facing and consequently the
   angle of the nozzles and the angle of the water jets exiting the nozzles . Figure
   15 shows with corresponding numbering an alternative perspective view of the
   embodiment of figure 14.       Figure 16 shows an end elevation view of the
   carriage of figure 14; and Figure 17 shows a cross section through A-A of
15 figure 16.
   [0049] One advantage of the ability to angle the carriage assembly invention is
   that the jet passes above already cut debris so that water delivery does not
   impact on cut debris. Other advantages include savings in water fuel and labour
20 costs.  Materials which may be selected for the carriage and extension legs
   include metals, polypropylene, silicon, urethane or other suitable mouldable
   materials.
   [0050] Means for enabling a disposition of the angle of repose of the carriage
25 have been described above but it will be appreciated that other means can be
   employed to enable a set attitude of the outlet of the nozzles to achieve the
   improved energy of contact and earlier or later contact with debris, scale and
   other unwanted material.      One advantage of the ability to angle the carriage
   assembly invention is that the jet passes above already cut debris so that water
30 delivery does not impact on cut debris.      Other advantages include savings in
   water fuel and labour costs.
                                            20

   [0051] It will be recognised by persons skilled in the art that numerous
   variations and modifications may be made to the invention broadly described
   herein without departing from the overall spirit and scope of the invention.
 5
10
15
20
25
30
                                         21

    THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.          A support carriage for receiving and retaining at least one a water
 5 delivery nozzle used in high pressure pipe cleaning, the carriage comprising:
    a support body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least
   one water delivery nozzle,
   the carriage body including at least one formation which allows a water delivery
   orifice of each of the at least one nozzles to be set at a fluid delivery angle
10 relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe in which the support carriage is placed,
   the carriage body thereby allowing a water jet exiting each said nozzles to
   contact an inner surface of the pipe at an angle which optimises removal of debris
   from the inside of the pipe under the action of the water jets; and wherein the
   weight of the carriage is statically      balanced so the carriage stays in balance
15 irrespective of the attitude setting of the carriage assembly.
   2.          A carriage according to claim 1 wherein the at least one formation is
   radially disposed about the support body of the carriage which enable the attitude
   of the carriage to be adjusted relative to the longitudinal axis of the pipe in which
20 the carriage is placed.
   3.          A carriage according to claim 2 wherein the adjustable members
   associated with the carriage body enable selective adjustment of the attitude of
   the water jets exiting the delivery nozzles.
25
   4.          A carriage according to claim 3 wherein the adjustable members
   engage the carriage and are capable of repositioning to enable alteration of the
   angular relationship between a longitudinal axis of the pipe and a longitudinal
   axis of a nozzle carried by the carriage.
30
                                               1

   5   A carriage according to claim 4 wherein the carriage has multiple formations
   comprising a      plurality of radially disposed fins extending from the carriage
   body.
 5  6 A carriage according to claim 5 wherein the radial fins have a geometry
   which optimises the angle of attack of a water jet for removal of debris from
   inside the pipe.
   7   A carriage according to claim 6 wherein the formations are adjustable by
10 rotation of the carriage relative to a water nozzle retained in the carriage.
   8.          A carriage according to claim 7 wherein the carriage is manufactured
   from metals
15 9.          A carriage according to claim 7 wherein the carriage is manufactured
   from a plastics material.
   10.         A carriage according to claim 9 manufactured from plastics selected
   from polypropylene, polyethylene, rubbers including silicon.
20
   11.         A carriage according to claim 9 wherein the carriage is manufactured
   in a mould.
   12.         A carriage according to claim 8 wherein the material is sufficiently
25 stiff to ensure that the nozzle is maintained in the correct attitude.
   13.         A carriage according to claim 7 wherein the adjustable members
   contribute to nozzle tracking along the length of the pipe.
30 14.         A carriage according to claim 12 wherein there are two turbo nozzles
   retained in the carriage disposed in back to back relationship
                                              2

   15.        A carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the
   carriage comprising:
    a body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water delivery
 5 nozzle,
   the carriage further comprising adjustable legs connected to the carriage body
   which enable selective extension and retraction of each leg to contribute to
   adjustment of the angle of impact of water jets emanating from the nozzle.
10 16.        A carriage according to claim 15, wherein said extension and
   retraction can be achieved by legs     extension, rotation of the carriage and re
   positioning of the carriage.
15 17.        An assembly for use in the removal of debris, roots and other
   unwanted matter from the inside of a fluid pipe, the assembly comprising:
   a water delivery nozzle,
   a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
   comprising:
20  a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   adjustable members associated with the carriage body enabling selective
   adjustment of the attitude of the delivery nozzles to thereby enable selection of
   an optimal angle of impact of a water jet exiting the nozzle onto debris to be
25 removed from the pipe.
   18.        A method of removing debris from the inside of a fluid pipe using a
   high pressure water jet nozzle including;
   a carriage for receiving and retaining the water delivery nozzle, the carriage
30 comprising:
                                            3

    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   adjustable members associated with the carriage body enabling selective
   adjustment of the attitude of water jets delivered from the delivery nozzle;
 5 the method comprising the steps of
   a) taking the carriage and inserting a selected nozzle into the carriage;
   b) selecting an attitude of the nozzle but selective adjustment of the adjustable
   members
   c) placing the assembly inside a pipe and activating a water supply to the nozzle;
10 wherein the selected attitude of the nozzle delivers water towards an inside
   surface of the pipe at an angle dictated by the selected attitude.
    19.        A method according to claim 16 wherein the angle at which the water
   jets are delivered to the pipe is selected to optimise the angle of attack of the
15 debris sought to be removed.
   20.         A carriage according to claim     1 wherein the body which defines a
   space which receives and retains therein at least one water delivery nozzle,
   includes a saddle which receives and retains the nozzles on the carriage; and
20 a bearing surface on the carriage which allows the carriage to travel along a pipe
   invert during discharge of water from the at least one nozzles.
   21.         A carriage according to claim 20 wherein, the angle of repose of the
   bearing surface locates the carriage in a predetermined attitude relative to a
25 longitudinal axis of the pipe carriage to enable selective adjustment of the angle
   of a water jet exiting said nozzles.
   22.         A carriage according to claim 20 wherein there are two turbo nozzles
   disposed in the carriage in back to back relationship.
30
                                             4

   23.         A carriage for receiving and retaining at least one water delivery
   nozzle, the carriage comprising:
    a body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least one water
   delivery nozzle,
 5 support means extending from the carriage body which when the carriage is
   inserted in a pipe engages an inner surface of the pipe,
   wherein, the carriage further comprises at least one formation which enables the
   nozzles to be disposed at a predetermined angle relative to the longitudinal axis
   of the pipe in which the carriage travels.
10
   24.         A carriage according to claim 21 wherein the at least one formation
   comprises at least one fin.
   25.         A carriage according to claim 24 the at least one fins radially extend
15 from the carriage body.
    24.        A carriage according to claim 23 wherein there are three radial fins
   spaced apart at 120 degrees.
20  25.        A carriage according to claim 24 wherein the fins are integral with the
   carriage body.
   26.         A carriage according to claim 25 wherein each fin has a tapered edge.
25 27          A carriage according to claim 26 wherein an angle of taper of taper on
   the tapered edge influences an angle of repose of the nozzles relative to the
   longitudinal axis of the pipe.
   28          A carriage according to claim 27 wherein the taper angle is the same
30 on each fin.
                                              5

   29.         A carriage according to claim 28 wherein the carriage has a geometry
   which enables a fixed angular relationship between       a longitudinal axis of the
   pipe and a longitudinal axis of the nozzle during travel of the carriage along the
   pipe.
 5
   30.         A carriage according to claim 29 wherein each said nozzles is a high
   pressure water delivery nozzle.
    31.        A carriage     according    to  claim  30  wherein    the  carriage  is
10  manufactured from a metal.
    32.        A carriage     according    to  claim  30  wherein    the  carriage  is
    manufactured in a mould from plastics materials selected from polypropylene,
    polyethylene, rubbers including silicon.
15
   33          An assembly for use in the removal of debris, roots and other
   unwanted matter from the inside of a fluid pipe, the assembly comprising:
   a water delivery nozzle,
   a carriage for receiving and retaining a water delivery nozzle, the carriage
20 comprising:
    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the water
   delivery nozzle,
   radial formations associated with the carriage body enabling the nozzle to be
   disposed
25 in a fixed attitude so that water exiting the nozzle impacts on the inside wall of a
   pipe at an optimal angle for removal of debris on an inner wall of a pipe.
   34.         A method of removing debris from the inside of a fluid pipe using a
   high pressure water jet nozzle assembly comprising;
30 a carriage for receiving and retaining at least one water delivery nozzle, the
   carriage comprising:
                                              6

    a carriage body defining a space which receives and retains therein the at least
   one water delivery nozzle,
   at least one radial fin on the carriage body allowing the at least one nozzles to be
   oriented in a predetermined attitude relative to a longitudinal axis of the pipe to
 5 thereby allow water to be delivered at predetermined angle;
   the method comprising the steps of
   a) taking the carriage and inserting at least one nozzle into the carriage so that the
   at least one nozzle lies at the predetermined angle;
   b) placing the assembly inside a pipe and activating a water supply to the nozzle;
10 wherein the selected attitude of the nozzle delivers water towards an inside
   surface of the pipe at an angle dictated by a selected attitude of the carriage.
   35.         A method according to claim 34 comprising the further step of
   providing a plurality of the radial fins on the carriage and having a geometry
15 which optimises the angle of attack of a water jet for removal of debris from
   inside the pipe.
   36          A method according to claim 35 wherein the radial fins are disposed at
   120 degrees spacing.
20
25
                                              7

<removed-date>
                             EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are15 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
