ABSTRACT
The present invention provides methods, devices, compositions (e.g., capture complexes), and
kits useful for enhancing the detection of antibodies in a test sample. The methods, devices,
and compositions utilize detectable Fc-binding molecules such as Protein A, Protein G, and/or
an Fc-specific antibody to amplify the signal of a detected antibody in immunoassays, such as
lateral flow assays. See Fig. 1.

WO 2013/078227            PCT/US2012/066108
                      1/3
               4-a%
       9            4%
               4-a4

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
           SIGNAL AMPLIFICATION IN LATERAL FLOW AND RELATED
                                      IMMUNOASSAYS
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/562,302,
filed November 21, 2011, which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Immunoassays are frequently used to identify infectious agents, among other uses.
Certain immunoassays rely on host immunological responses to a given infectious agent, for
instance, by testing for the presence of host antibodies that specifically bind to one or more
unique antigens of that infectious agent. Numerous types of immunoassay systems are
available for diagnostic purposes, including large, automated central lab systems and
relatively simple over-the-counter tests. These immunoassays utilize a broad range of test
formats, such as agglutination assays, precipitin assays, enzyme-linked immunoassays, direct
fluorescence assays, immuno-histological tests, complement-fixation assays, serological tests,
immuno-electrophoretic assays, and lateral flow and flow through tests (i.e., rapid "strip"
tests). Immunoassays can provide rapid, simple, and effective diagnoses for a variety of
conditions. However, there remains a need in the art for improved immunoassays having
increased sensitivity.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003] The present invention is based, in part, on the discovery that the addition of detectable
Fc-binding molecules (e.g., Protein A- conjugates, Protein G-conjugates, secondary antibody
conjugates) can be used for the detection of antibodies in immunoassays, e.g., antigen-based
capture or sandwich-type assays. These detectable Fc-binding molecules can be used either
alone or in combination with other detectable entities for the detection of antibodies in
immunoassays. For example, these Fc-binding molecules can be used to detect antibodies
once the antibodies to be detected are captured by antibody-specific binding entities, e.g.,
antigens. In another example, these Fc-binding molecules can be used as a secondary source
for detectable signals, e.g., in combination with another labeled or detectable antibody
binding entity such as antigen.
                                               1

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
[0004] This discovery can be applied to a variety of capture-type assays, related methods,
compositions, and kits, as described herein.
[0005] Certain embodiments therefore include methods for detecting an antibody in a test
sample comprising: (a) contacting the test sample with a first detector to form a first complex
comprising the first detector and the antibody, wherein the first detector comprises an Fc
binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity; (b) contacting the first complex with
a capture entity immobilized on a test region of a surface, wherein the capture entity is
capable of specifically binding to the antibody; and (c) detecting the presence of a signal
from the first detectable entity in the test region, wherein the presence of the signal is
indicative of the presence of the antibody in the test sample. In certain embodiments, the first
detector is immobilized to a conjugate region of the surface, wherein the conjugate region
does not overlap with the test region of the surface. In specific embodiments, the Fc-binding
molecule is protein A, protein G, or both. In certain embodiments, the first detector comprises
protein A and protein G each conjugated to the detectable entity. In such embodiments, the
ratio of protein A to protein G may be adjusted to optimize the level of signal amplification
depending upon the type of immunoglobulin to be detected. For instance, in some
embodiments, protein A and protein G are present in a ratio of about 10:1 to about 1:10, more
preferably about 5:1 to about 1:5.
[0006] In certain embodiments, the capture entity is an antigen or antigenic peptide. In
particular embodiments, said antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism selected from
the group consisting of heartworm, e.g., canine heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Borrelia
burgdorferi,Borreliaafzelii, Borrelia garinii,Anaplasmaphagocytophilum, feline leukemia
virus, parvovirus, influenza A strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory
syncytial virus, Legionella, adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human
immunodeficiency virus, and Group A Streptococcus.
[0007] In certain embodiments, the first detectable entity is a metal nanoparticle, metal
nanoshell, fluorophore, or colored latex particle. In some embodiments, the metallic
nanoparticle or metallic nanoshell is selected from the group consisting of gold particles,
silver particles, copper particles, platinum particles, cadmium particles, composite particles,
gold hollow spheres, gold-coated silica nanoshells, and silica-coated gold shells.
                                                  2

    WO 2013/078227                                                         PCT/US2012/066108
[0008] Certain methods provided herein further comprise contacting the test sample with a
second detector, wherein the second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide
conjugated to a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of
specifically binding to the antibody. In some embodiments, the first and second detector are
immobilized on a conjugate region, wherein the conjugate region does not overlap with the
test region of the surface. In certain embodiments, the conjugate region further comprises a
control detector. The level of signal amplification can be selected by adjusting the ratio of
the first detector to the second detector. In certain embodiments, the ratio of the first detector
to the second detector is about 20:1 to about 1:20, more preferably about 20:1 to about 1:1.
[0009] In specific embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are the same. In more
specific embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are both gold nanoparticles. In
other embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are different.
[0010] In certain embodiments, the surface is a flow path in a lateral flow assay device, a
surface of a microtiter plate or a flow path in an analytical rotor.
[0011] As noted above, certain embodiments employ a second detector that is conjugated to a
detectable entity, where that second detector is an antigen or antigenic peptide. In some of
these and related embodiments, the antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism selected
from the group consisting of heartworm, e.g., canine heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichia
chaffeensis, Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borrelia afzelii, Borreliagarinii,
Anaplasmaphagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, e.g.,
canine parvovirus, influenza A strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory
syncytial virus, Legionella, adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human
immunodeficiency virus, and Group A Streptococcus.
[0012] In some embodiments, the surface is a flow path in a lateral flow assay device or a
flow path in an analytical rotor. In particular embodiments, the test sample is blood, serum, or
plasma.
                                                 3

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
[0013] Also included are antibody detection devices, comprising a sample loading region; a
conjugate region, wherein said conjugate region comprises a mobilizable first detector
including an Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity; and a test region,
wherein said test region comprises an immobilized capture entity capable of specifically
binding to the antibody; wherein the sample loading region, the conjugate region and the test
region are configured so that in operation a liquid sample when loaded into the sample
loading region, is in fluid communication with the conjugate region and the test region. In
certain embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule is protein A and/or protein G.
[0014] In some embodiments, the capture entity is an antigen or antigenic peptide. In
particular embodiments, the antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism selected from
the group consisting of heartworm, e.g., canine heartworm Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichia
chaffeensis, Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borrelia afzelii, Borreliagarinii,
Anaplasmaphagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, e.g.,
canine parvovirus, influenza A strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory
syncytial virus, Legionella, adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human
immunodeficiency virus, and Group A Streptococcus.
[0015] In particular embodiments, the first detectable entity is a metal nanoparticle, metal
nanoshell, fluorophore, or colored latex particle. In specific embodiments, the metallic
nanoparticle or metallic nanoshell is selected from the group consisting of gold particles,
silver particles, copper particles, platinum particles, cadmium particles, composite particles,
gold hollow spheres, gold-coated silica nanoshells, and silica-coated gold shells.
[0016] In some embodiments, the device further comprises a control region in fluid
communication with a liquid sample when it is loaded to the sample loading region. In certain
embodiments, the control region comprises an immobilized binding partner capable of
specifically binding a control detector.
[0017] In particular embodiments, the first detector comprises protein A or protein G
conjugated to a first detectable entity and said immobilized binding partner is an anti-protein
A or anti-protein G antibody.
                                                 4

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
[0018] Some devices further comprise an absorbent pad positioned downstream of the test
region. In certain devices, the conjugate region is positioned upstream of the sample loading
region. In some embodiments, the conjugate region is positioned downstream of the sample
loading region. In some embodiments, the sample loading region comprises a blood separator
material. In certain instances the conjugate region further comprises a mobilizable second
detector, wherein the second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to
a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of specifically
binding to the antibody. The ratio of the first detector (e.g. Fc-binding molecule, such as
protein A and/or protein G, conjugated to a first detectable entity) to the second detector
(antigen/antigenic peptide conjugated to a second detectable entity) can be adjusted to select
a desired level of signal amplification. In some embodiments, the ratio of the first detector to
the second detector is about 20:1 to about 1:20. In other embodiments, the ratio of the first
detector to the second detector is about 20:1 to about 1:1.
[0019] In particular embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are the same. In
specific embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are gold nanoparticles. In other
embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are different.
[0020] In particular embodiments, for example, for detection of anti-microbial antibodies, the
antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism selected from the group consisting of
heartworm, e.g., canine heartworm Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichiachaffeensis, Ehrlichiaewingii,
Borreliaburgdorferi,Borrelia afzelii, Borreliagarinii,Anaplasmaphagocytophilum,
Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, e.g., canine parvovirus, influenza A
strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Legionella,
adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and
Group A Streptococcus.
[0021] Also included are kits comprising one or more of the detection devices and systems
described herein, and instructions for using the device or system to detect an antibody in a
test sample. Certain kits further comprise a second detector and instructions for combining
the second detector with the test sample prior to application to the sample loading region of
the detection system, wherein said second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide
conjugated to a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of
                                                 5

    WO 2013/078227                                                            PCT/US2012/066108
specifically binding to the antibody. In some embodiments, the instructions provide
combining the second detector with the test sample such that the second detector will be
present in a particular ratio with the first detector to achieve a desired level of signal
amplification.
[0022] Also included are methods of detecting an antibody in a test sample comprising
applying the test sample to the sample loading region of one or more of the detection devices
or systems described herein, and detecting the presence or absence of a signal from the first
detectable entity in the test region. Some methods further comprise combining a second
detector with the test sample prior to application to the sample loading region of the detection
system, wherein said second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to
a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of specifically
binding to the antibody.
[0023] Certain embodiments relate to one or more capture complexes that comprise a capture
entity, an antibody in a test sample, and a first detector, wherein the capture entity binds to
the antibody and wherein the first detector comprises a Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a
first detectable entity and binds to the Fc region of the antibody. Certain of these and related
embodiments further comprise a second detector, wherein the second detector specifically
binds to the variable region of the antibody. In some embodiments, the capture complex is
immobilized on a test region of a surface.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024] Figure 1 illustrates one example of a capture complex of the invention, with an
antibody of interest being captured by a capture entity (e.g., antibody-specific antigen
conjugated to BSA) immobilized to a test surface (e.g., nitrocellulose), a detectable Fc
binding molecule-conjugate (e.g., Protein A- or Protein G-colloidal gold conjugate) bound to
the Fc region of a target antibody, and optionally a second detectable conjugate (e.g., antigen
colloidal gold conjugate) bound to the variable region of the antibody of interest.
[0025] Figure 2 illustrates one example of a lateral flow device and method according to the
present invention. Antigenic peptides specific to an antibody of interest are linked to the
carrier protein bovine serum albumin (BSA) and the resulting BSA-peptide conjugates are
                                                  6

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
used as capture on nitrocellulose. This same antigenic peptide is further conjugated to
colloidal gold, which serves as the label in this exemplary assay. The signal produced is then
further amplified by addition of Protein A/G-gold conjugate(s) to the conjugate mixture.
[0026] Figure 3 illustrates the sample flow over time of a Lyme-disease specific lateral flow
assay, using the lateral flow device shown in Figure 2. In this exemplary assay, one drop of
blood, serum, or plasma (approximately 15-20 gL via transfer pipette) is mixed with four
drops of colloidal gold conjugate solution (approximately 30 gL from a dropper bottle) in a
reaction tube. One drop from the resulting reaction mixture is transferred to the sample port
of the test cassette that is placed on a flat surface. The blood separation pad filters blood cells
from whole blood (see Figure 2). Plasma (or serum) and the B. burgdorferiantibody
conjugate complexes migrate to the nitrocellulose membrane containing the test and the
control regions. The application of three (3) drops (approximately 60 gL from a dropper
bottle) of chase buffer (one minute after sample application) moves the whole mixture
through nitrocellulose towards the upper absorbent pad that keeps on pulling the liquid. The
antibodies specific to B. burgdorferipresent in a positive sample are already complexed with
the gold-labeled antigen-conjugate. The labeled antigen-antibody complex moves to the test
line where immobilized antigen captures labeled antigen-antibody complexes via the second
binding site on the antibody. Protein A/G-gold conjugate present in the conjugate mixture
binds to the Fc region of the target antibody and amplifies the test signal. Free labeled
antigen and the rest of the reaction mixture passes through to the control line where the
Protein A gold conjugate is captured by the control capture which comprises a chicken anti
Protein A antibody. In this instance, the device is read at about 8 minutes. The appearance of
a red line in the test zone and a second red line in the control zone indicates the presence of
antibodies to B. burgdorferi.The appearance of a line in the control zone only indicates the
absence of antibodies to B. burgdorferi.The test is considered invalid if (a) the test line
appears but no control line forms or (b) neither control nor test line form.
                                                   7

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0027] As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
[0028] The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one (i.e., to at
least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "an element" means
one element or more than one element.
[0029] By "about" is meant a quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
dimension, size, amount, weight or length that varies by as much as 30, 25, 20, 25, 10, 9, 8, 7,
6, 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1% to a reference quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
dimension, size, amount, weight or length.
[0030] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
"comprise," "comprises," and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or
element or group of steps or elements.
[0031] By "consisting of' is meant including, and limited to, whatever follows the phrase
"consisting of." Thus, the phrase "consisting of" indicates that the listed elements are
required or mandatory, and that no other elements may be present. By "consisting
essentially of' is meant including any elements listed after the phrase, and limited to other
elements that do not interfere with or contribute to the activity or action specified in the
disclosure for the listed elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting essentially of' indicates that
the listed elements are required or mandatory, but that other elements are optional and may or
may not be present depending upon whether or not they materially affect the activity or
action of the listed elements.
[0032] The terms "peptide" and "polypeptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein
to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues and to variants and synthetic and naturally
occurring analogues of the same. Thus, these terms apply to amino acid polymers in which
one or more amino acid residues are synthetic non-naturally occurring amino acids, such as a
chemical analogue of a corresponding naturally occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally
occurring amino acid polymers and naturally occurring chemical derivatives thereof.
                                                 8

    WO 2013/078227                                                             PCT/US2012/066108
[0033] An "increased" or "enhanced" amount is optionally a "statistically significant"
amount, and may include an increase that is about 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30 or more times (including all integers, ranges and decimal
points in between and above 1, e.g., 2.5, 3.6, 3.7. 3.8, etc.) the amount or value (e.g., signal or
value such as a Reactivity score) relative, for example, to an antibody test performed without
a detectable Fc-binding molecule. A "increased" or "enhanced" value or amount may also
include a 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%,5%,6,            7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%,
17% , 1 8 % , 19%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%,
85%, 90%, 9 5 %, 100%, 200%, 300%, 400%, 500% or more increase in the amount or value
relative, for example, to an antibody test performed without a detectable Fc-binding
molecule.
[0034] All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated
by reference in their entirety.
Methods
[0035] In one aspect, the present invention includes methods for detecting an antibody in a
test sample. In certain embodiments, these methods relate, in pertinent part, to contacting the
test sample with an Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity (i.e., a
detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate) to form a first complex, contacting the first
complex with a capture entity immobilized on a test region of a surface, wherein the capture
entity is capable of specifically binding to the antibody, and detecting the presence of a signal
from the detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate in the test region. Here, the presence of
the signal is indicative of the presence of the antibody in the test sample.
[0036] The reactants of these methods can be contacted in any order or sequence. For
instance, the test sample can be mixed with the detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate
prior to application to the surface, or these two reactants can be applied separately to the
surface, sequentially or at the same time, in the same or different place on the surface. When
added separately, the reactants will come into contact with one another as they spread or flow
through the test surface, for example, by capillary or other action. In particular embodiments,
the detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate is immobilized beforehand to a conjugate
                                                  9

   WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
region of the surface, which does not overlap with the test region of the surface. In certain of
these embodiments, the test sample can be applied to the surface, where it flows via capillary
or other action through the conjugate region and the test region, and thereby contacts the Fc
binding molecule and the capture entity. If an antibody of interest is present in the sample,
then it will form a detectable complex with the detectable Fc-binding molecule and the
capture entity. In specific embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule is protein A, protein G,
protein A/G, protein L or any combination thereof, e.g., as a mixture or a fusion protein
thereof.
[0037] Certain methods provided herein further comprise contacting the test sample with a
second detector molecule. In these embodiments, the second detector can be any suitable
antibody binding entity, e.g., an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to a second
detectable entity and capable of specifically binding to the antibody. The combination, e.g.,
the conjugate of second detector and second detectable entity is sometimes referred to as a
"detectable antibody-specific antigen-conjugate" or a "detectable antigen-conjugate," which
includes peptide antigens and non-peptide antigens. In some embodiments, the first and
second detectable entities are the same, i.e., the Fc-binding molecule-conjugate and the
detectable-antigen-conjugate are conjugated to the same type of detectable entity, such as a
gold particle. In other embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are different. In
specific embodiments, the first and second detectable entities are both gold nanoparticles, to
create colloidal gold conjugates (CGC). In these and related embodiments, the detectable Fc
binding molecule can be referred to as an "Fc-binding molecule-CGC"; specific examples
include Protein A-CGCs, Protein G-CGCs, protein A/G-CGCs, and protein L-CGCs. In
some embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule is a secondary antibody or a fragment thereof
capable of binding to the Fc region of the antibody in the test sample while the second
detector can be any suitable antibody binding entity, e.g., antigen or antigenic peptide, etc.
[0038] Similar to above, the reactants in these methods can be contacted in any order or
sequence. As one example, the test sample can be mixed with the detectable Fc-binding
molecule-conjugate, the detectable antigen-conjugate, or both, prior to application to the
surface, or these three reactants can be applied separately to the surface, sequentially or at the
same time, in the same or different place on the surface. When added separately, the reactants
                                                 10

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
will come into contact with one another as they spread or flow through the test surface, for
example, by capillary or other action.
[0039] In some embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule-conjugate is immobilized to a
conjugate region of the surface, which does not overlap with the test region, and the test
sample and the detectable antigen-conjugate are applied separately or together to the surface.
In other embodiments, the detectable antigen-conjugate is immobilized to a conjugate region
of the surface, which does not overlap with the test region, and the test sample and the
detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate are applied separately or together to the surface. In
certain embodiments, the detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate and the detectable
antigen-conjugate are both immobilized to a conjugate region of the surface, which does not
overlap with the test region of the surface, and the test sample is applied to the test surface.
After application to the surface, the test sample (alone or in combination with the other
reactants), can flow or spread throughout the surface via capillary or other action, through the
conjugate region (if present) and the test region, and thereby contact the detectable Fc
binding molecule-conjugate, the detectable antigen-conjugate, and the capture entity. If an
antibody of interest is present in the sample, it will form one or more detectable complexes
with these reactants, and thereby indicate the presence of the antibody in the sample. Persons
skilled in the art will realize that these exemplary combinations are non-limiting, and that
other possibilities are possible.
[0040] In certain embodiments, the conjugate region further comprises a control detector, for
instance, an antibody that specifically binds to the Fc-binding molecule. Other types of
control regions will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
[0041] A test sample is usually a biological sample obtained from a subject that has or is
suspected of having an antibody of interest, such as an antibody that is specific for an
infectious agent. A biological sample is preferably easy to obtain and may include blood,
serum or plasma derived from a venous blood sample or even from a finger prick. Tissue
from other body parts or other bodily fluids, such as cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF), saliva,
gastric secretions, mucus, urine, feces, etc., are known to contain antibodies and may be used
as a source of a test sample. In other embodiments, the sample is a tissue (e.g., a tissue
homogenate), extract from a bodily organ, or a cell lysate. In certain embodiments, the
                                                 11

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
subject is a wild animal (e.g., a deer or rodent, such as a mouse, chipmunk, squirrel, etc.). In
other embodiments, the subject is a lab animal (e.g., a mouse, rat, guinea pig, rabbit, monkey,
primate, etc.). In other embodiments, the subject is a domesticated or feral animal (e.g., a
dog, a cat, a horse). In still other embodiments, the subject is a human.
[0042] An antibody, also referred to as an immunoglobulin, is a Y-shaped protein of the
immune system that specifically identifies foreign objects or antigens, such as the
components of bacteria, yeasts, parasites, and viruses. Each tip of the 'Y' of an antibody
contains an antigen-binding site that is specific for a particular epitope on an antigen,
allowing these two structures to bind together with precision. The production of a given
antibody is increased upon exposure to an antigen (e.g., a microbial antigen) that specifically
interacts with that antibody. Hence, the detection of antigen-specific antibodies in a sample
from a subject can inform whether that subject is currently exposed to, or has been previously
exposed to, a given microbe, such as a virus, bacteria, fungus, or parasite.
[0043] The fragment crystallizable region (Fc region) is the tail region of an antibody that
interacts with cell surface Fc receptors and certain proteins of the complement system. In
IgG, IgA and IgD antibody isotypes, the Fc region is composed of two identical protein
fragments, derived from the second and third constant domains of the antibody's two heavy
chains. IgM and IgE Fc regions contain three heavy chain constant domains (CH domains 2
4) in each polypeptide chain. The Fc regions of IgG antibodies bears a highly conserved N
glycosylation site. The N-glycans attached to this site are predominantly core-fucosylated
diantennary structures of the complex type. In addition, small amounts of these N-glycans
also bear bisecting GlcNAc and a-2,6 linked sialic acid residues. The Fab region of an
antibody contains variable sections that define the target-specificity of the antibody, and in
contrast, the Fc region of all antibodies in a class are the same for each species; they are
constant rather than variable.
[0044] An "antigen-binding site," or "binding portion" of an antibody, refers to the part of the
immunoglobulin molecule that participates in antigen binding. The antigen binding site is
formed by amino acid residues of the N-terminal variable ("V") regions of the heavy ("H")
and light ("L") chains. Three highly divergent stretches within the V regions of the heavy and
light chains are referred to as "hypervariable regions" which are interposed between more
                                                 12

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
conserved flanking stretches known as "framework regions," or "FRs". Thus the term "FR"
refers to amino acid sequences which are naturally found between and adjacent to
hypervariable regions in immunoglobulins. In an antibody molecule, the three hypervariable
regions of a light chain and the three hypervariable regions of a heavy chain are disposed
relative to each other in three dimensional space to form an antigen-binding surface. The
antigen-binding surface is complementary to the three-dimensional surface of a bound
antigen, and the three hypervariable regions of each of the heavy and light chains are referred
to as "complementarity-determining regions," or "CDRs."
[0045] An antibody typically comprises all or a portion of an Fc region, to facilitate detection
by an Fc-binding molecule, and may also comprise one or more antigen-binding sites, to
facilitate detection by an antibody-specific binding agent, such as an antigen or antigenic
peptide. The antibodies can be, e.g., of IgG, IgE, IgD, IgM, or IgA type. Generally, IgM
and/or IgA antibodies are detected, e.g., for detection at early stages of infection.
[0046] An Fc-binding molecule includes any binding agent that specifically binds to the Fc
region of an antibody or any region that is outside of the variable region of an antibody. In
certain embodiments, an Fc-binding molecule is not an antibody or antigen-binding fragment
thereof. In other embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule is an Fc-specific secondary antibody,
e.g., a rabbit anti-dog antibody, a goat anti-dog antibody. In certain embodiments, an Fc
binding molecule is a secondary antibody against the antibody to be detected in a test sample.
General examples of Fc-binding molecules include polypeptides, soluble receptors, adnectins,
small peptides, peptide mimetics, small molecules, aptamers, etc., that specifically bind to the
Fc-region of an immunoglobulin. Specific examples of Fc-binding molecules include Protein
A, Protein G, Protein A/G fusion proteins, Protein L, and fragments and variants thereof
which retain the ability to specifically bind to the Fc region of an antibody.
[0047] Protein A is a 40-60 kDa MSCRAMM (microbial surface components recognizing
adhesive matrix molecules) surface protein found in the cell wall of Staphylococcus aureus,
and is encoded by the spa gene. Wild-type Protein A is composed of five homologous Ig
binding domains that fold into a three-helix bundle, and which can individually bind to the Fc
regions of an antibody. Protein A binds with high affinity to human IgG 1 and IgG2 and with
moderate affinity to human IgM, IgA and IgE.
                                                 13

    WO 2013/078227                                                        PCT/US2012/066108
[0048] Protein G is an immunoglobulin-binding protein expressed in group C and G
Streptococcal bacteria (see, e.g., Sjobring et al., JBiol Chem. 266: 399-405, 1991). The
NMR solution structure (see Lian et al., JournalofMol. Biol. 228:1219-1234, 1992) and the
crystal structure (see Derrick and Wigley, JournalofMol. Biol. 243:906-918, 1994) of
Protein G have been resolved to 1 Angstrom. Protein A and Protein G are well-known in the
art and commercially available in a variety of conjugated and un-conjugated forms.
[0049] Also included are functional variants and fragments of full-length or wild-type
versions of Protein A and Protein G. In certain embodiments, a variant polypeptide includes
an amino acid sequence having at least about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or more sequence identity or similarity to
the wild-type sequence of Protein A and/or Protein G. A functional fragment of can be a
polypeptide fragment which is, for example, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,35,40,45,50,55,60,65,70,75,80,85,90,95,100,110,120,
130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190,200,220,240,260,280,300,320,340,360,380,400,
450, 500 or more contiguous or non-contiguous residues of wild-type Protein A and/or
Protein G. Variants and fragments of Protein A and Protein G typically retain specific
binding for the Fc region of one or more immunoglobulin isotypes.
[0050] Percent sequence identity has an art recognized meaning and there are a number of
methods to measure identity between two polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences. See, e.g.,
Lesk, Ed., Computational Molecular Biology, Oxford University Press, New York, (1988);
Smith, Ed., Biocomputing: Informatics And Genome Projects , Academic Press, New York,
(1993); Griffin & Griffin, Eds., Computer Analysis Of Sequence Data, Part I , Humana Press,
New Jersey, (1994); von Heinje, Sequence Analysis In Molecular Biology, Academic Press,
(1987); and Gribskov & Devereux, Eds., Sequence Analysis Primer, M Stockton Press, New
York, (1991). Methods for aligning polynucleotides or polypeptides are codified in computer
programs, including the GCG program package (Devereux et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 12:387
(1984)), BLASTP, BLASTN, FASTA (Atschul et al., J Molec. Biol. 215:403 (1990)), and
Bestfit program (Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package, Version 8 for Unix, Genetics
Computer Group, University Research Park, 575 Science Drive, Madison, Wis. 53711) which
uses the local homology algorithm of Smith and Waterman ( Adv. App. Math., 2:482-489
                                                14

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
(1981)). For example, the computer program ALIGN which employs the FASTA algorithm
can be used, with an affine gap search with a gap open penalty of -12 and a gap extension
penalty of -2.
[0051] Fusion proteins that comprise Fc-binding polypeptides are also contemplated,
including Protein A fusions and Protein G fusions. Fc-binding molecules can be fused to all
or a portion of another Fc-binding molecule, or to one or more heterologous polypeptides. A
specific example of a Protein A/G fusion protein combines four Fc-binding domains from
Protein A with two from Protein G (see, e.g., Sikkema, J.W.D., Amer. Biotech. Lab, 7:42,
1989; and Eliasson et al., J. Biol. Chem. 263, 4323-4327, 1988); however, other
combinations can be used. Fusion partners (e.g., a peptide or other moiety) can be used to
improve purification, improve solubility, enhance expression of the polypeptide in a host cell,
aid in detection, and stabilize the polypeptide, etc. Examples of fusion partners include
carrier proteins (e.g., serum albumin such as bovine serum albumin), beta-galactosidase,
glutathione-S-transferase, histidine tag(s), etc.
[0052] A capture entity can be any binding agent that specifically binds to an antibody of
interest, that is, a target antibody, such as a microbe-specific antibody, to be detected by the
methods and devices described herein. Typically, the capture entity specifically binds to the
variable region of an antibody, and thus contains one or more epitopes that are specific for
the antigen-binding site(s) of an antibody. In certain embodiments, a capture entity is not an
antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof. In particular embodiments, a capture entity
is an antigen or an antigenic peptide that specifically binds to an antibody of interest.
Exemplary antigens and antigenic peptides are described below. Also included are soluble
receptors, adnectins, peptide mimetics, small molecules, aptamers, etc., that specifically bind
to an antibody of interest, that is, an antibody that is to be detected according to the methods
provided herein.
[0053] As noted above, a capture entity is usually attached to or immobilized on a test surface
or substrate, such as a solid or semi-solid support. The attachment can be covalent or non
covalent, and can be facilitated by a moiety associated with the capture entity that enables
covalent or non-covalent binding, such as a moiety that has a high affinity to a component
attached to the carrier, support or surface. For example, a capture entity can be associated
                                                  15

    WO 2013/078227                                                             PCT/US2012/066108
with a ligand, such as biotin, and the component associated with the surface can be a
corresponding ligand receptor, such as avidin. Alternatively, a capture entity can be
associated with a ligand receptor, such as avidin, and the component associated with the
surface can be a corresponding ligand, such as biotin. The capture entity can be attached to
or immobilized on the test surface or substrate either prior to or after the addition of a sample
containing antibody during an immunoassay.
[0054] In particular embodiments, the test surface is a bead, dot blot, a flow path in a lateral
flow assay device, or a flow path in an analytical rotor. For example, the capture entity can be
attached or immobilized on a porous membrane, such as a PVDF membrane (e.g., an
ImmobilonTM membrane), a nitrocellulose membrane, polyethylene membrane, nylon
membrane, or a similar type of membrane. In other embodiments, the test surface or
substrate is a tube or a well, such as a well in a plate (e.g., a microtiter plate) suitable for use
in an ELISA or other sandwich-type assay. In some embodiments, the test surface or
substrate is a sensor, such as an electrochemical, optical, or opto-electronic sensor.
[0055] Such test surfaces or substrates can comprise glass, cellulose-based materials,
thermoplastic polymers, such as polyethylene, polypropylene, or polyester, sintered structures
composed of particulate materials (e.g., glass or various thermoplastic polymers), or cast
membrane film composed of nitrocellulose, nylon, polysulfone, or the like. A test surface or
substrate can be sintered, fine particles of polyethylene, commonly known as porous
polyethylene, for example, 0.2-15 micron porous polyethylene from Chromex Corporation
(Albuquerque, NM), Porex TM , etc.. All of these test surface or substrate materials can be
used in suitable shapes, such as films, sheets, or plates, or they may be coated onto or bonded
or laminated to appropriate inert carriers, such as paper, glass, plastic films, or fabrics.
[0056] Suitable methods for immobilizing capture entities such as peptides on solid phases
include ionic, hydrophobic, covalent interactions and the like. Specific or semi-specific
binding to a solid or semi-solid carrier, support or surface, can be achieved by the capture
entity having, associated with it, a moiety which enables its covalent or non-covalent binding
to the solid or semi-solid carrier, support or surface. For example, the moiety can have
affinity to a component attached to the carrier, support or surface. In this case, the moiety
may be, e.g., a biotin or biotinyl group or an analogue thereof bound to an amino acid group
                                                 16

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
of the peptide, such as 6-aminohexanoic acid, and the component is then avidin, streptavidin,
neutravidin, or an analogue thereof. An alternative is a situation in which the moiety has an
amino acid sequence of six consecutive histidine residues (e.g. 6x-His tag) and the carrier
comprises a Nitrilotriacetic Acid (NTA) derivative charged with NiV' or Co-, ions. Further
to above, suitable carriers, supports, and surfaces include, but are not limited to, beads (e.g.,
magnetic beads, colloidal particles or nanoparticles, such as colloidal gold, or nanoparticles
comprising silica, latex, polystyrene, polycarbonate, or PDVF), latex of co-polymers such as
styrene-divinyl benzene, hydroxylated styrene-divinyl benzene, polystyrene, carboxylated
polystyrene, beads of carbon black, non-activated or polystyrene or polyvinyl chloride
activated glass, epoxy-activated porous magnetic glass, gelatin or polysaccharide particles or
other protein particles.
[0057] As noted above, antigens and antigenic peptides can be used as capture entities and/or
as antibody-specific detectors. A selected antigen or antigenic peptide is capable of
specifically binding to a target antibody, most often via one or both of the antibody's antigen
binding sites. Hence, the term "antigen," as used herein, refers to a molecule capable of being
specifically bound by an antibody via at least one antigen-binding site of the antibody. An
antigen can comprise one or more epitopes, the particular contiguous or non-contiguous
region(s) of the antigen that specifically bind to the antigen-binding site of the antibody. An
epitope can be a linear epitope, sequential epitope, or a conformational epitope.
[0058] An antigen can be, for example, a peptide or a modified form thereof, or a non-peptide
antigen such as a small molecule. As noted above, antigens can also include soluble
receptors, adnectins, peptide mimetics, small molecules, aptamers, etc., that specifically bind
to an antibody of interest.
[0059] When used as capture entities, or "capture antigens," antigens or antigenic peptides
are usually unlabeled and are immobilized or otherwise attached to a test surface. For certain
embodiments, capture antigens can be fused or conjugated to or complexed with one or more
heterologous proteins, such as bovine serum albumin or multiple antigen peptides (MAPS), to
facilitate attachment to the test surface or other purpose.
                                                 17

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
[0060] For use as antibody-specific detectors, the antigens or antigenic peptides are usually
conjugated to a detectable entity and thereby form a "detectable antigen-conjugate." In
certain embodiments, these detectable antigen-conjugates are also fused or conjugated to or
complexed with one or more heterologous proteins such as bovine serum albumin or MAPS.
Detectable antigen-conjugates can be designed for either direct or indirect detection, as
described below.
[0061] Fusion proteins that comprise antigenic peptides are also contemplated. Antigenic
peptides can be fused to all or a portion of one or more antigenic peptides having the same or
different binding specificity (e.g., having one or more of the same or different epitopes), or to
one or more heterologous polypeptides. Fusion partners (e.g., a peptide or other moiety) can
be used to improve purification, improve solubility, enhance expression of the peptide in a
host cell, aid in detection, stabilize the antigenic peptide, facilitate immobilization onto a test
surface, etc. Examples of fusion partners include carrier proteins (e.g., serum albumin such
as bovine serum albumin), beta-galactosidase, glutathione-S-transferase, histidine tag(s), etc.
[0062] Antigens and antigenic peptides and other antibody-specific binding agents can be
derived from a variety of sources. Particular embodiments include those that are derived from
microbial sources, including viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites. Specific examples include
antigens that are from any one or more of heartworm, e.g., canine heartworm, Ehrlichia
canis, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borreliaafzelii, Borreliagarinii,Anaplasmaphagocytophilum,
feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, e.g., canine parvovirus, influenza A strain, influenza B
strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV), Legionella, adenovirus, Group A Streptococcus, feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV),
rotavirus, etc. Examples of Borrelia antigens for the detection of Lyme disease antibodies can
be found in U.S. Application No. 13/667,909, U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2011/0136155,
and WO 2011/063003 (each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety). Examples
of Ehrlichiaantigens for the detection of Ehrlichia antibodies can be found in U.S.
Application No. 61/712,578, U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011/0124125, and
W02011/063235 (each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety).
[0063] Antigenic peptides for use according to the methods described herein can be prepared
by synthetic chemistry (i.e., a "synthetic peptide"). In other embodiments, antigenic peptides
                                                  18

    WO 2013/078227                                                            PCT/US2012/066108
can be produced biologically (i.e., by cellular machinery, such as a ribosome). In certain
embodiments, antigenic peptides are isolated. As used herein, an "isolated" peptide is a
peptide that has been produced either synthetically or biologically and then purified, at least
partially, from the chemicals and/or cellular machinery used to produce the peptide. In
certain embodiments, an isolated peptide is substantially purified. The term "substantially
purified," as used herein, refers to a molecule, such as a peptide, that is substantially free of
cellular material (proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, etc.), culture medium,
chemical precursors, chemicals used in synthesis of the peptide, or combinations thereof. A
peptide that is substantially purified has less than about 40%, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%,
50%, 2%, 1% or less of the cellular material, culture medium, other polypeptides, chemical
precursors, and/or chemicals used in synthesis of the peptide. Accordingly, a substantially
pure molecule, such as a peptide, can be at least about 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%,
95%, 98%, or 99%, by dry weight, the molecule of interest. An isolated peptide can be in
water, a buffer, or in a dry form awaiting reconstitution, e.g., as part of a kit. An isolated
peptide can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Suitable acids and bases
that are capable of forming salts with the peptides of the present invention are well known to
those of skill in the art, and include inorganic and organic acids and bases.
[0064] An antibody of interest, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is said to "specifically
bind," "immunologically bind," and/or is "immunologically reactive" to a capture entity or
antibody-specific detector (e.g., antigen or antigenic peptide) if it reacts at a detectable level
(within, for example, a lateral flow assay, western blot, or ELISA assay) with the entity or
detector, and does not react detectably in a statistically significant manner with unrelated
polypeptides or agents under similar conditions. The term "specifically bind" can also mean
that a capture entity or antibody-specific detector has a higher affinity (e.g., a higher degree
of selectivity) for an antibody of interest than for other antibodies in a sample.
[0065] Immunological binding, as used in this context, generally refers to the non-covalent
interactions of the type which occur between an immunoglobulin molecule and an antigen for
which the immunoglobulin is specific. The strength, or affinity of binding such as
immunological binding interactions can be expressed in terms of the dissociation constant
(Kd) of the interaction, wherein a smaller Kd represents a greater affinity. Immunological
binding properties of selected polypeptides can be quantified using methods well known in
                                                 19

    WO 2013/078227                                                                 PCT/US2012/066108
the art (see, e.g., Davies et al., Annual Rev. Biochem. 59:439-473, 1990). In certain
illustrative embodiments, an antibody has an affinity for a capture entity or an antibody
specific detector (e.g., antigen or antigenic peptide) of at least about 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3,
0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 40, or 50 nM. As another example, a capture entity or
antibody-specific detector can have an affinity for the antibody of at least about 1.5-fold, 2
fold, 2.5-fold, 3-fold, or higher than for other antibodies in the sample.
[0066] Similarly, an Fc-binding molecule is said to "specifically bind" to an Fc region of an
immunoglobulin if it reacts at a detectable level with the Fc region, and does not react
detectably in a statistically significant manner with unrelated polypeptides or agents under
similar conditions. In some illustrative embodiments, an Fc-binding molecule has an affinity
for the Fc-region of a selected immunoglobulin isotype of at least about 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 40, or 50 nM. Certain Fc-binding molecules have a
stronger or weaker affinity for one or more immunoglobulin isotypes relative to others.
[0067] Such affinity or degree of specificity can be determined by a variety of routine
procedures, including, e.g., competitive binding studies. In an ELISA assay, a positive
response is defined as a value 2 or 3 standard deviations greater than the mean value of a
control or group of controls.
[0068] As noted above, certain detector molecules such as Fc-binding molecules, antigens,
and/or antigenic peptides are conjugated to a detectable entity. Conjugation is typically
achieved by covalent attachment. Detectable entities include "directly detectable entities,"
such as metal nanoparticles, metal nanoshells, colored latex particles, radioisotopes, and
fluorophores, and "indirectly detectable entities," which often rely on ligand-receptor
interactions to achieve signaling. In the former case, the detector molecule (e.g., antigenic
peptide, Fc- binding molecule such as Protein A/G) is conjugated to the directly detectable
entity. In the latter case, the detector molecule is conjugated to a ligand, which then interacts
with its ligand-receptor, the latter being conjugated to a directly detectable entity - or vice
versa. Examples of ligands include biotin (e.g., via a cysteine or lysine residue), lipid
molecules (e.g., via a cysteine residue), and carrier proteins (e.g., serum albumin).
                                                      20

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
Attachment to ligands, such as biotin, can be useful for associating the detector with ligand
receptors, such as avidin, streptavidin, or neutravidin. Avidin, streptavidin, neutravidin, in
turn, can be linked to a directly detectable entity (e.g., a signaling moiety that can be
visualized, such as colloidal gold, a fluorescent moiety, or an enzyme such as horseradish
peroxidase or alkaline phosphatase). Alternatively, the detector molecules can be fused or
linked to a ligand receptor, such as avidin, streptavidin, or neutravidin, thereby facilitating an
association with the corresponding ligand, which, in turn, is linked to a directly detectable
entity. Examples of other ligand-receptor pairs are well-known in the art and can similarly be
used
[0069] Examples of directly detectable entities (or signaling moieties) include radioisotopes,
fluorophores, dyes, enzymes, nanoparticles, colored latex particles, chemiluminescent
markers, light-emitting dyes, and others described herein and known in the art.
[0070] Examples of radioisotopes that can be used as directly detectable entities include 32P,
33   3     3
  P,   1S,   H, and 12. These radioisotopes have different half-lives, types of decay, and levels
of energy which can be tailored to match the needs of a particular protocol. For example, 3H
is a low energy emitter which results in low background levels, however this low energy also
results in long time periods for autoradiography and other measurements.
[0071] Examples of fluorophores or fluorochromes that can be used as directly detectable
entities include fluorescein, tetramethylrhodamine, Texas Red, and a number of others (e.g.,
Haugland, Handbook of FluorescentProbes - 9th Ed., 2002, Molec. Probes, Inc., Eugene
OR; Haugland, The Handbook: A Guide to FluorescentProbesand Labeling Technologies
10th Ed., 2005, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). Also included are light-emitting or otherwise
detectable dyes. The light emitted by the dyes can be visible light or invisible light, such as
ultraviolet or infrared light. In exemplary embodiments, the dye may be a fluorescence
resonance energy transfer (FRET) dye; a xanthene dye, such as fluorescein and rhodamine; a
dye that has an amino group in the alpha or beta position (such as a naphthylamine dye, 1
dimethylaminonaphthyl-5-sulfonate, 1-anilino-8-naphthalende sulfonate and 2-p-touidinyl-6
naphthalene sulfonate); a dye that has 3-phenyl-7-isocyanatocoumarin; an acridine, such as 9
isothiocyanatoacridine and acridine orange; a pyrene, a bensoxadiazole and a stilbene; a dye
that has 3-(c-carboxypentyl)-3'-ethyl-5,5'-dimethyloxacarbocyanine (CYA); 6-carboxy
                                                21

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
fluorescein (FAM); 5 &6-carboxyrhodamine- 110 (RI 10); 6-carboxyrhodamine-6G (R6G);
N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA); 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX); 6
carboxy-4',5'-dichloro-2',7'-dimethoxyfluorescein (JOE); ALEXA FLUOR TM ; Cy2; Texas
Red and Rhodamine Red; 6-carboxy-2',4,7,7'-tetrachlorofluorescein (TET); 6-carboxy
2',4,4',5',7,7'-hexachlorofluorescein (HEX); 5-carboxy-2',4',5',7'-tetrachlorofluorescein
(ZOE); NAN; NED; Cy3; Cy3.5; Cy5; Cy5.5; Cy7; and Cy7.5; IR800CW, ICG, Alexa Fluor
350; Alexa Fluor 488; Alexa Fluor 532; Alexa Fluor 546; Alexa Fluor 568; Alexa Fluor 594;
Alexa Fluor 647; Alexa Fluor 680, or Alexa Fluor 750.
[0072] Very small particles, termed nanoparticles, also can be used as directly detectable
entities. These particles usually range from 1-1000 nm in size and include diverse chemical
structures such as gold and silver particles and quantum dots. When irradiated with angled
incident white light, silver or gold nanoparticles ranging from about 40-120 nm will scatter
monochromatic light with high intensity. The wavelength of the scattered light is dependent
on the size of the particle. Four to five different particles in close proximity will each scatter
monochromatic light, which when superimposed will give a specific, unique color.
Derivatized nanoparticles such as silver or gold particles can be attached to a broad array of
molecules including, proteins, antibodies, small molecules, receptor ligands, and nucleic
acids. Specific examples of nanoparticles include metallic nanoparticles and metallic
nanoshells such as gold particles, silver particles, copper particles, platinum particles,
cadmium particles, composite particles, gold hollow spheres, gold-coated silica nanoshells,
and silica-coated gold shells. Also included are silica, latex, polystyrene, polycarbonate,
polyacrylate, PVDF nanoparticles, and colored particles of any of these materials.
[0073] Quantum dots can also be used as directly detectable entities. Quantum dots are
fluorescing crystals 1-5 nm in diameter that are excitable by light over a large range of
wavelengths. Upon excitation by light having an appropriate wavelength, these crystals emit
light, such as monochromatic light, with a wavelength dependent on their chemical
composition and size. Quantum dots such as CdSe, ZnSe, InP, or InAs possess unique
optical properties; these and similar quantum dots are available from a number of commercial
sources (e.g., NN-Labs, Fayetteville, AR; Ocean Nanotech, Fayetteville, AR; Nanoco
Technologies, Manchester, UK; Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO).
                                                 22

    WO 2013/078227                                                              PCT/US2012/066108
[0074] Detecting the presence of a signal can be achieved by any means appropriate to the
label or detectable entity being employed by the assay. For example, the detection step may
include visibly inspecting the capture complex for a color change, or inspecting the capture
complex for a physical-chemical change. Physical-chemical changes may occur with
oxidation reactions or other chemical reactions. They may be detected by eye, using a
spectrophotometer, or the like.
[0075] A signal is typically indicative of the presence of an antibody of interest when it is
stronger than the signal of negative control; however, not all tests require a negative control.
In some instances, but not necessarily, the strength of a positive signal can be numerically
quantified and is indicative of the presence of the antibody when that strength is statistically
significant relative to a control. In some instances, the routine knowledge and experience
with a particular test type establishes when a signal is positive or negative, and thus indicates
the presence or absence of an antibody of interest.
[0076] As one example, the signal from certain lateral flow assay devices can be measured
according to the Reactivity score, a score of 0-5 (including decimal points in between) where
a stronger and more positive signal is given a higher number score. A negative control will
typically have a score that is closer to zero, for example, about 0.25 or less.
[0077] The detection signal can be optimized, for example, by adjusting the ratio of the
individual reactants. One example includes adjusting the ratio of (i) the detectable Fc-binding
molecule conjugate(s) and (ii) detectable antigen/antigenic peptide conjugate(s) as follows: a
ratio (e.g., molar ratio) of (i):(ii) of about 1:200, 1:100, 1:90, 1:80, 1:70, 1:60, 1:50, 1:40,
1:30, 1:20, 1:19, 1:18, 1:17, 1:16, 1:15, 1:14, 1:13, 1:12, 1:11, 1:10, 1:9, 1:8, 1:7, 1:6, 1:5,
1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, 10:1, 11:1, 12:1, 13:1, 14:1, 15:1, 16: 1,
17:1, 18:1, 19:1, 20:1, 30:1, 40:1, 50:1, 60:1, 70:1, 80:1, 90:1, 100:1, or 200:1, including all
ratios and ranges of ratios in between. In some embodiments, the ratio of the detectable Fc
binding molecule conjugate to a detectable antigen/antigenic peptide conjugate is from about
20:1 to about 1:20, preferably from about 20:1 to about 1:1, and more preferably from about
16:1 to about 2:1. In certain embodiments, the Fc-binding molecule in the detectable
conjugate is Protein A, Protein G, Protein A/G fusion proteins, Protein L, or fragments and
variants thereof which retain the ability to specifically bind to the Fc region of an antibody.
                                                   23

    WO 2013/078227                                                               PCT/US2012/066108
[0078] In some embodiments, a mixture of protein A and protein G is used as the Fc-binding
molecule-conjugates, wherein each protein A and protein G molecule is conjugated to a
detectable entity. In such embodiments where protein A and protein G are both used as the
detectable Fc-binding molecule conjugate, the detection signal may be optimized by altering
the ratio of protein A to protein G depending on the type of immunoglobulin class to be
detected. As explained supra, protein A and protein G have different binding affinities to the
Fc regions of different immunoglobulin classes (e.g., of IgG, IgE, IgD, IgM, or IgA).
Accordingly, the ratio of protein A to protein G may be adjusted based upon the
immunoglobulin class one desires to detect. By way of example, if one desires to detect
predominantly IgM immunoglobulins, a lower ratio of protein A to protein G (i.e. a higher
amount of protein G conjugate relative to protein A conjugate) may be used. On the other
hand, if one desires to detect predominantly IgG immunoglobulins, a higher ratio of protein A
to protein G (i.e. a higher amount of protein A conjugate relative to protein G conjugate) may
be used. Exemplary ratios (e.g., molar ratios) of protein A to protein G conjugates include,
but are not limited to, 1:20, 1:19, 1:18, 1:17, 1:16, 1:15, 1:14, 1:13, 1:12, 1:11, 1:10, 1:9, 1:8,
1:7, 1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, 10:1, 11:1, 12:1, 13:1,
14:1, 15:1, 16:1, 17:1, 18:1, 19:1, and 20:1. Insome embodiments, the ratio of protein A
conjugate to protein G conjugate is from about 10:1 to about 1:10, preferably from about 5:1
to about 1:5, and more preferably about 2:1 to about 1:2. In one embodiment, the ratio of
protein A conjugate to protein G conjugate is about 1:1.
[0079] In certain embodiments, the detection signal may be further optimized by adjusting
protein A to protein G ratios in relation to the amount of detectable antigen/antigenic peptide
conjugate(s). For instance, in some embodiments, the ratio (e.g., molar ratio) of protein A
conjugate to protein G conjugate to detectable antigen/antigenic peptide conjugate may be
from about 20:20:1 to about 1:1:20, from about 10:10:1 to about 2:2:1, or from about 4:2:1 to
about 1:2:1.
[0080] The protocols for immunoassays using antigens for detection of specific antibodies
are well known in art. For example, a conventional sandwich assay can be used, or a
conventional competitive assay format can be used. For a discussion of some suitable types
of assays, see Current Protocols in Immunology (Coligan et al., editors, John Wiley & Sons,
                                                   24

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
Inc). In some embodiments, the detecting step comprises performing a lateral flow
immunoassay. In certain embodiments, the detecting step comprises performing an ELISA
assay. In other embodiments, the detecting step comprises spinning the sample in an
analytical rotor. In still other embodiments, the detecting step comprises analyzing the
sample with an electrochemical, optical, or opto-electronic sensor.
[0081] A particularly useful assay format is a lateral flow immunoassay format. As one non
limiting example, reporter or detector molecules including an Fc-binding molecule (e.g.,
Protein A and/or G) and optionally an antibody specific-antigen are labeled with a detectable
entity (e.g., colloidal gold) and then dried and placed on a glass fiber pad (the sample
application pad or conjugate pad). Unlabeled antigen or antigenic peptide (i.e., the capture
entity) is immobilized on a membrane, such as nitrocellulose or a PVDF (polyvinylidene
fluoride) membrane (e.g., an ImmobilonTM membrane). When a solution of sample (blood,
serum, etc.) is applied to the sample application pad (or flows through the conjugate pad), it
dissolves the labeled detector(s), which then bind to the antibodies in the sample, if present.
The resulting complexes are then transported into the next membrane (PVDF or
nitrocellulose containing the capture entity) by capillary action. If antibodies against the
capture entity are present, then they complex with the detector(s) and the diagnostic capture
entity on the membrane, thereby generating a signal (e.g., a band that can be seen or
visualized).
[0082] As another non-limiting example, the sample pad is not striped with the detector
molecules (i.e., detectable Fc-binding molecules, detectable antigen-conjugates), that is, the
sample pad contains no conjugate region of pre-immobilized detector molecules. All other
components are essentially the same as described above, where unlabeled antigen or
antigenic peptide (i.e., the capture entity) is immobilized on a membrane, such as
nitrocellulose or a PVDF (polyvinylidene fluoride) membrane (e.g., an ImmobilonTM
membrane). The test sample (blood, serum, etc.) is pre-mixed with one or both detector
molecules, and then applied to the sample pad. Alternatively, the test sample and the detector
molecules are applied to the sample pad separately, at the same time or sequentially. Other
combinations will be apparent to persons skilled in the art. Regardless of the order in which
they are mixed or applied, the resulting complexes of the antibodies in the sample and the
detector molecules(s) are then transported into the next membrane (PVDF or nitrocellulose
                                                  25

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
containing the capture entity) by capillary action. If antibodies against the capture entity are
present, then they complex with the detectors and the diagnostic capture entity on the
membrane, thereby generating a signal (e.g., a band that can be seen or visualized).
[0083] In specific embodiments, the methods include contacting the test sample with a
Protein A and/or Protein G-colloidal gold conjugate (CGC) to form a first complex,
contacting the first complex with a peptide antigen immobilized on a test region of a
nitrocellulose or PVDF membrane, where the peptide antigen is derived from a microbial
source and specifically binds to an antibody of interest (e.g., an anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti
parasitic, anti-fungal antibody). The peptide antigen can be conjugated to BSA or synthesized
as MAPS. The presence of a signal from the Protein A-CGC and/or Protein G-CGC in the
test region is indicative of the presence of the antibody in the test sample.
[0084] Certain methods further include contacting the test sample with a peptide antigen
CGC conjugate, which comprises the same peptide antigen described above. In certain
embodiments, the Protein A/G-CGC or secondary antibody-CGC or a combination thereof
and the peptide antigen-CGC are immobilized on a conjugate region of the membrane (or a
separate but connected membrane) in a way that does not overlap with the test region. In
other embodiments, the Protein A/G-CGC or secondary antibody-CGC or a combination
thereof and the peptide antigen-CGC are not immobilized on the membrane, but are rather
applied to the surface along with the test sample, at the same time or sequentially. The
combined signal from the Protein A/G-CGC and/or the secondary antibody-CGC and the
peptide antigen-CGC indicates the presence of the antibody in the test sample, and is
typically stronger than the signal from a test performed with the peptide antigen-CGC alone,
i.e. without the Protein A-CGC, Protein G-CGC, or the secondary antibody-CGC. In specific
embodiments, the peptide antigen is a Borrelia antigen (naturally existing or synthesized,
e.g., identical to or mimic the naturally existing antigen), and test sample is from a subject
suspected of having Lyme disease. A positive signal identifies the presence of Lyme disease
specific antibodies in the sample. In other embodiments, the peptide antigen is an Ehrlichia
antigen (naturally existing or synthesized, e.g., identical to or mimic the naturally existing
antigen), and the subject is suspected of having Ehrlichiosis, a tick-borne bacterial infection
caused by bacteria of the family Anaplasmataceae, genera Ehrlichiaand Anaplasma.
                                                 26

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
[0085] Another assay for the screening of blood products or other physiological or biological
fluids is an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, i.e., an ELISA. Typically in an ELISA,
capture entities (e.g., antibody-specific antigens) are adsorbed to the surface of a microtiter
well directly or through a capture matrix (e.g., an antibody). Residual, non-specific protein
binding sites on the surface are then blocked with an appropriate agent, such as bovine serum
albumin (BSA), heat-inactivated normal goat serum (NGS), or BLOTTO (a buffered solution
of nonfat dry milk which also contains a preservative, salts, and an antifoaming agent). The
well is then incubated with a biological sample suspected of containing an antibody of
interest. The sample can be applied neat, or more often it can be diluted, usually in a
buffered solution which contains a small amount (0.1-5.0% by weight) of protein, such as
BSA, NGS, or BLOTTO. After incubating for a sufficient length of time to allow specific
binding to occur, the well is washed to remove unbound protein and then incubated with one
or more detector molecules, including an Fc-binding molecule (e.g., Protein A and/or Protein
G) and optionally another antibody-specific antigen (usually the same as the capture entity)
that are conjugated to an enzyme or other label by standard procedures and is dissolved in
blocking buffer. The label can be chosen from a variety of enzymes, including horseradish
peroxidase (HRP), beta-galactosidase, alkaline phosphatase, glucose oxidase, etc. Sufficient
time is allowed for specific binding to occur again, then the well is washed again to remove
unbound conjugate, and a suitable substrate for the enzyme is added. Color is allowed to
develop and the optical density of the contents of the well is determined visually or
instrumentally (measured at an appropriate wave length). The cutoff OD value may be
defined as the mean OD+3 standard deviations (SDs) of at least 50 serum samples collected
from individuals from an area where Lyme disease is not endemic, or by other such
conventional definitions. In the case of a very specific assay, OD+2 SD can be used as a
cutoff value. Conditions for performing ELISA assays are well-known in the art.
[0086] It should be understood by one of skill in the art that any number of conventional
protein assay formats, particularly immunoassay formats, may be designed to utilize the
various embodiments described herein. This invention is thus not limited by the selection of
the particular assay format, and is believed to encompass assay formats that are known to
those of skill in the art.
                                                27

   WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
[0087] Phrases such as "sample containing an antibody" or "detecting an antibody in a
sample" are not meant to exclude samples or determinations (e.g., detection attempts) where
no antibody is contained or detected. In a general sense, this invention involves assays to
determine whether an antibody produced in response to infection by an infectious microbe is
present in a sample, irrespective of whether or not it is detected.
[0088] Conditions for reacting antigens/peptides and antibodies so that they react specifically
are well-known to those of skill in the art. See, e.g., Current Protocols in Immunology
(Coligan et al., editors, John Wiley & Sons, Inc).
Devices and Compositions
[0089] In another aspect, the present invention includes devices for detecting an antibody in a
sample. Certain embodiments include antibody detection devices or antibody detection
systems, comprising a sample loading region, a conjugate region, and a test region. The
conjugate region typically does not overlap with the test region; however, the sample region
and these two regions are configured so that in operation a liquid sample when loaded into
the sample loading region, is in fluid communication with the conjugate region and the test
region. Usually, the test sample flows through or communicates with the conjugate and test
regions via capillary action. The conjugate region comprises a mobilizable Fc-binding
molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity (i.e., a detectable Fc-binding molecule
conjugate, such as a Protein A and/or Protein G-conjugate, or an Fc-specific secondary
antibody-conjugate), and the test region comprises an immobilized capture entity capable of
specifically binding to the antibody. Each of these features is described elsewhere herein.
[0090] In some embodiments, the device further comprises a control region in fluid
communication with a liquid sample when it is loaded to the sample loading region. Again,
the liquid sample may flow through or communicate with the control region via capillary
action. In certain embodiments, the control region comprises an immobilized binding partner
capable of specifically binding a control detector. As one example, the control region
comprises an anti-protein A antibody, an anti-protein G antibody, or any of the mammalian
IgGs reactive with protein A or protein G.
                                               28

    WO 2013/078227                                                               PCT/US2012/066108
[0091] Some devices further comprise an absorbent pad positioned downstream of the test
region. In certain devices, the conjugate region is positioned upstream of the sample loading
region. In some embodiments, the conjugate region is positioned downstream of the sample
loading region. In some embodiments, the sample loading region comprises a blood separator
material.
[0092] In certain instances, the conjugate region further comprises a mobilizable second
detector, wherein the second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to
a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of specifically
binding to the antibody. In certain embodiments, the first (e.g., detectable Fc-binding
molecule) and second (e.g., detectable antigen-conjugate) detectors have the same type of
detectable entity. In other embodiments, the first and second detectors have different types of
detectable entities. In particular embodiments, the ratio (e.g. molar ratio) of the first detector
to the second detector is adjusted to achieve a desired level of signal amplification. For
instance, the ratio of the first detector (e.g., detectable Fc-binding molecule, such as protein
A/protein G) to the second detector (e.g., detectable antigen-conjugate) can be about 1:200,
1:100, 1:90, 1:80, 1:70, 1:60, 1:50, 1:40, 1:30, 1:20, 1:19, 1:18, 1:17, 1:16, 1:15, 1:14, 1:13,
1:12, 1:11, 1:10, 1:9, 1:8, 1:7, 1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1,
10:1, 11:1, 12:1, 13:1, 14:1, 15:1, 16:1, 17:1, 18:1, 19:1,20:1,30:1,40:1,50:1,60:1,70:1,
80:1, 90:1, 100:1, or 200:1, including all ratios and ranges of ratios in between. In some
embodiments, the ratio of the detectable Fc-binding molecule conjugate to a detectable
antigen/antigenic peptide conjugate is from about 20:1 to about 1:20, preferably from about
20:1 to about 1:1, and more preferably from about 16:1 to about 2:1. In embodiments in
which both protein A and protein G conjugates are used as the detectable Fc-binding
molecules, the ratio of protein A conjugate to protein G conjugate can be adjusted to optimize
the detection signal based upon the immunoglobulin class to be detected as described above.
Suitable ratios (e.g. molar ratios) of protein A conjugate to protein G conjugate include, but
are not limited to, 1:20, 1:19, 1:18, 1:17, 1:16, 1:15, 1:14, 1:13, 1:12, 1:11, 1:10, 1:9, 1:8, 1:7,
1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, 10:1, 11:1, 12:1, 13:1, 14:1,
15:1, 16:1, 17:1, 18:1, 19:1, and 20:1. In some embodiments, the ratio of protein A conjugate
to protein G conjugate is from about 10:1 to about 1:10, preferably from about 5:1 to about
1:5, and more preferably about 2:1 to about 1:2. In one embodiment, the ratio of protein A
conjugate to protein G conjugate is about 1:1.
                                                   29

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
[0093] Devices for performing specific binding assays, especially immunoassays, are known
and can be readily adapted for use in the present methods. Solid phase assays, in general, are
easier to perform than heterogeneous assay methods which require a separation step, such as
precipitation, centrifugation, filtration, chromatography, or magnetism, because separation of
reagents is faster and simpler. Solid-phase assay devices include microtiter plates, flow
through assay devices (e.g., lateral flow immunoassay devices), dipsticks, and
immunocapillary or immunochromatographic immunoassay devices.
[0094] In some embodiments, the device is a lateral flow immunoassay. In certain
embodiments, the device is a microtiter plate suitable for an ELISA assay. In other
embodiments, the device is suitable for use in an analytical rotor. In still other embodiments,
the device comprises an electrochemical, optical, or opto-electronic sensor.
[0095] In certain embodiments, a lateral flow device is constructed using a sample/blood
separation pad, nitrocellulose membrane, and an upper wick placed in a housing (see, e.g.,
Figure 2). The nitrocellulose membrane is striped with a test line or region comprising a
capture entity, such as an unlabeled, antibody-specific antigen (e.g., a peptide antigen or non
peptide antigen), and optionally a control line or region containing an antibody that is
reactive to an Fc-binding molecule (indicated below). A sample suspected of containing an
antibody of interest can be pre-mixed with a detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate, and
then applied to the lateral flow assay device. Or, rather than pre-mixing, the sample and the
Fc-binding molecule can be applied at the same time or sequentially to the assay device, in
any order.
[0096] Alternatively, the nitrocellulose membrane is prepared as above and further striped
with a conjugate line or region comprising a detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate,
where the conjugate and test regions do not overlap. In some embodiments, a sample
suspected of containing an antibody of interest can then be applied to the lateral flow assay
device. In other embodiments, a sample suspected of containing an antibody of interest can
be pre-mixed with a detectable antigen-conjugate, which specifically binds to the antibody
(typically having the same binding specificity as the capture entity), and then applied to the
lateral flow assay device. Similar to above, rather than pre-mixing, the sample and the
                                                30

    WO 2013/078227                                                         PCT/US2012/066108
detectable antigen-conjugate can be applied at the same time or sequentially to the assay
device, in any order
[0097] In some embodiments, a lateral flow device is constructed using a sample/blood
separation pad, nitrocellulose membrane, and an upper wick placed in a housing (see, e.g.,
Figure 2). The nitrocellulose membrane is striped with a test line or region comprising a
capture entity, such as an unlabeled, antibody-specific antigen (e.g., a peptide antigen or non
peptide antigen), optionally a control line or region containing an antibody that is reactive to
an Fc-binding molecule (indicated below), and a conjugate line or region comprising a
detectable antigen-conjugate, which specifically binds to the antibody (typically having the
same binding specificity as the capture entity). The conjugate and test regions usually do not
overlap. A sample suspected of containing an antibody of interest can be pre-mixed with a
detectable Fc-binding molecule-conjugate, and then applied to the lateral flow assay device.
Also, rather than pre-mixing, the sample and the Fc-binding molecule can be applied at the
same time or sequentially to the assay device, in any order. In one exemplary embodiment,
two-port devices may also be used for sequential application of a test sample, conjugate and
chase buffer.
[0098] In certain lateral flow devices, the nitrocellulose membrane is striped with a test line
or region comprising a capture entity, such as an unlabeled, antibody-specific antigen (e.g., a
peptide antigen or non-peptide antigen), optionally a control line or region containing an
antibody that is reactive to an Fc-binding molecule (indicated below), and a conjugate line or
region comprising a detectable Fc-binding molecule and a detectable antigen-conjugate,
which specifically binds to the antibody (typically having the same binding specificity as the
capture entity). A sample suspected of containing an antibody of interest can then be applied
to the lateral flow assay device.
[0099] In an exemplary device for the detection of Lyme-specific antibodies, a lateral flow
device is constructed using a sample/blood separation pad, nitrocellulose membrane, and an
upper wick placed in a housing (see, e.g., Figure 2). The nitrocellulose membrane is striped
with a test line or region comprising a mixture of peptides that mimic or simulate Borrelia
antigens (see, e.g., U.S. Application No. 12/948,209) and a control line or region comprising
any Protein A- or Protein G-reactive immunoglobulin (e.g., anti-Protein A IgG, mouse,
                                                31

     WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
human or other Protein A-reactive IgG, etc.). A sample suspected of containing antibodies to
Borreliaburgdorferican be mixed with either colloidal gold conjugates of Protein A and/or
G (Protein A/G-CGC), or (ii) a mixture of Protein A/G-CGC and colloidal gold conjugates of
the Borrelia antigens (Borreliaantigen-CGC). This sample conjugate mixture can then be
applied to the lateral flow assay device.
[00100] Alternatively, a lateral flow device is constructed as above, but where the
nitrocellulose pad is striped with one or more conjugate regions, separate from the test region.
The conjugate regions can include, for example, (i) Protein A/G-CGC alone, (ii) Borrelia
antigen-CGC alone, or (iii) a combination of Protein A/G-CGC and Borrelia antigen-CGC.
As used herein or anywhere else in this application, Borrelia antigen, Ehrlichiaantigen, or
any antigen or antigenic peptide includes a mixture of synthetic peptides mimicking or
simulating natural Borreliaantigen, natural Ehrlichia antigen or any natural antigen,
respectively. In certain embodiments, for instance in (i) or (iii), the test sample is applied by
itself to the lateral flow device without any pre-mixing. In other embodiments, for instance in
(i), the sample can be pre-mixed with Borrelia antigen-CGC and then applied to the lateral
flow device. In some embodiments, for instance in (ii), the sample can be pre-mixed with
Protein A/G-CGC and then applied to the lateral flow device. However, these exemplary
combinations are non-limiting, and other possibilities will be apparent to persons skilled in
the art.
[00101] Capture complexes comprising the Protein A/G-CGC, the antibody in the sample,
and the optional Borrelia antigen-CGC are formed during transport through the sample/blood
separation pad and migration through the optional conjugate line(s) and the test line(s).
Depending on the circumstances (e.g., optional use of Borreliaantigen-CGC), a complex or
sandwich is formed of immobilized and unlabeled Borrelia antigen, the antibody, and labeled
Protein A/G-CGC. In the presence of Borrelia antigen-CGC, a complex or sandwich is
formed of unlabeled Borreliaantigen, the antibody, labeled Borrelia antigen-CGC, and
labeled Protein A/G-CGC. The addition of Protein A/G-CGC to the latter complex further
amplifies the signal from the labeled Borrelia antigen-CGC. In certain embodiments,
increased amplification can be achieved by adjusted the ratios of all the reactants, as
described herein and known in the art.
                                                32

    WO 2013/078227                                                            PCT/US2012/066108
[00102] In an exemplary device for the detection of Ehrlichiosis-specific antibodies, a lateral
flow device is constructed using a sample/blood separation pad, nitrocellulose membrane,
and an upper wick placed in a housing. The nitrocellulose membrane is striped with a test line
or region comprising an Ehrlichia antigen and a control line or region comprising any Protein
A- or Protein G-reactive immunoglobulin (e.g., anti-Protein A IgG). A sample suspected of
containing antibodies to Ehrlichia(e.g., E. canis, E. chaffeensis, E. ewingii,) can be mixed
with either colloidal gold conjugates of Protein A and/or G (Protein A/G-CGC), or (ii) a
mixture of Protein A/G-CGC and colloidal gold conjugates of the Ehrlichiaantigen
(Ehrlichiaantigen-CGC). This sample conjugate mixture can then be applied to the lateral
flow assay device.
[00103] Alternatively, a lateral flow device is constructed as above, but where the
nitrocellulose pad is striped with one or more conjugate regions, separate from the test region.
The conjugate regions can include, for example, (i) Protein A/G-CGC alone, (ii) Ehrlichia
antigen-CGC alone, or (iii) a combination of Protein A/G-CGC and Ehrlichia antigen-CGC.
In certain embodiments, for instance in (i) or (iii), the test sample is applied by itself to the
lateral flow device without any pre-mixing. In other embodiments, for instance in (i), the
sample can be pre-mixed with Ehrlichia antigen-CGC and then applied to the lateral flow
device. In some embodiments, for instance in (ii), the sample can be pre-mixed with Protein
A/G-CGC and then applied to the lateral flow device. However, these exemplary
combinations are non-limiting, and other possibilities will be apparent to persons skilled in
the art.
[00104] Capture complexes comprising the Protein A/G-CGC, the antibody in the sample,
and the optional Ehrlichiaantigen-CGC are formed during transport through the
sample/blood separation pad and migration through the optional conjugate line(s) and the test
line(s). Depending on the circumstances (e.g., optional use of Ehrlichiaantigen-CGC), a
complex or sandwich is formed of immobilized and unlabeled Ehrlichiaantigen, the
antibody, and labeled Protein A/G-CGC. In the presence of Ehrlichiaantigen-CGC, a
complex or sandwich is formed of unlabeled Ehrlichiaantigen, the antibody, labeled
Ehrlichiaantigen-CGC, and labeled Protein A/G-CGC. The addition of Protein A/G-CGC to
the latter complex further amplifies the signal from the labeled Ehrlichia antigen-CGC. In
                                               33

   WO 2013/078227                                                              PCT/US2012/066108
certain embodiments, increased amplification can be achieved by adjusted the ratios of all the
reactants, as described herein and known in the art.
[00105] In one embodiment of a microtiter plate suitable for an ELISA, a capture entity is
immobilized on a surface, such as a ninety-six-well ELISA plate or equivalent solid phase
that is coated with streptavidin or an equivalent biotin-binding compound, such as avidin or
neutravidin, at an optimal concentration in an alkaline coating buffer and incubated at 40 C
overnight. After a suitable number of washes with standard washing buffers, an optimal
concentration of biotinylated forms of an Fc-binding molecule and optionally the same
antigen used as the capture entity is dissolved in a conventional blocking buffer, is applied to
each well. A sample is then added, and the assay proceeds as described herein and known in
the art.
[00106] In another aspect, the present invention provides compositions related to the
detection of an antibody in a sample. Certain embodiments relate to one or more capture
complexes that comprise a capture entity, an antibody in a test sample, and a first detector,
wherein the capture entity binds to the antibody and wherein the first detector comprises a
Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity and binds to the Fc region of the
antibody. Certain embodiments further comprise a second detector, wherein the second
detector specifically binds to the variable region of the antibody. In some embodiments, the
capture complex is immobilized on a test region of a surface, such as a solid or semi-solid
support. For example, in certain embodiments, the solid support is a bead (e.g., a colloidal
particle or a nanoparticle), a flow path in a lateral flow immunoassay device, a flow path in
an analytical rotor, or a tube or a well (e.g., in a plate). See Figure 1 for an illustration of
these and related embodiments, including the optional second-detector conjugate and the
optional test surface.
[00107] In particular embodiments, the complex comprises an antibody of interest (e.g., an
anti-microbial antibody, such as a anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, or anti-parasitic
antibody), a Protein A- and/or Protein G-conjugate, an immobilized, antibody-specific
antigen, and optionally an antigen-conjugate. In certain embodiments, the Protein A- and/or
Protein-G conjugate comprises a gold nanoparticle (e.g., a Protein A-CGC or Protein G-CGC
- "colloidal gold conjugate"), and the antigen-conjugate comprises a gold nanoparticle (e.g.,
                                                  34

    WO 2013/078227                                                            PCT/US2012/066108
an antigen-CGC). In some embodiments, the antigen-conjugate or antigen-CGC comprises a
microbial antigen, such as a viral, bacterial, fungus, or parasitic antigen, as described herein
and known in the art. In specific embodiments, the antigen-conjugate or antigen-CGC
includes a Lyme disease-specific antigen, such as a Borreliaantigen (see supra). In other
embodiments, the antigen-conjugate or antigen-CGC includes an Ehrlichiosis disease-specific
antigen, such as an Ehrlichia antigen.
Kits
[00108] In yet another aspect, the invention provides kits. In certain embodiments, the kits
comprise a device or system of the invention, as described herein. In certain embodiments,
the kits comprise two, three, four, or more devices or systems of the invention.
[00109] Reagents for particular types of assays can also be provided in kits of the invention.
Thus, the kits can include a population of nanoparticles, beads (e.g., suitable for an
agglutination assay or a lateral flow assay), or a plate (e.g., a plate suitable for an ELISA
assay). In other embodiments, the kits comprise a device, such as a lateral flow immunoassay
device, an analytical rotor, or an electrochemical, optical, or opto-electronic sensor. The
population of nanoparticles, beads, the plate, and the devices are useful for performing an
immunoassay. For example, they can be useful for detecting formation of an antibody
peptide complex comprising an antibody from a sample, an antigenic peptide (labeled and/or
unlabeled), and an Fc-binding molecule.
[00110] In certain embodiments, an antigen (or a mixture of different antigens) is conjugated
to a detectable entity such as a gold nanoparticle, that same antigen (or mixture of antigens) is
also attached to or immobilized on a plate, a nitrocellulose test surface, or other test surface
or device, and an Fc-binding molecule is conjugated to a detectable entity such as a gold
nanoparticle. In specific kits, an antigenic peptide is conjugated to a gold nanoparticle and is
optionally conjugated to BSA, that same antigen (without the gold particle but optionally
conjugated to BSA) is immobilized onto a defined test region or strip of a nitrocellulose
surface, and Protein A and/or Protein G is conjugated to a gold nanoparticle, optionally as
part of a kit containing a lateral flow assay device. In some embodiments, the Protein A
and/or Protein G-gold particle conjugate is immobilized onto a separate region of the
nitrocellulose surface, i.e., a conjugate region, which does not overlap with the test region.
                                                 35

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
[00111] In addition, the kits can include various diluents and buffers, labeled conjugates or
other agents for the detection of specifically bound antigens or antibodies, and other signal
generating reagents, such as enzyme substrates, cofactors and chromogens. Other
components of a kit can easily be determined by one of skill in the art. Such components
may include coating reagents, polyclonal or monoclonal capture antibodies specific for an Fc
binding molecule such as Protein A and/or Protein G, or a cocktail of two or more of the
antibodies, purified or semi-purified extracts of antigens or antibodies as standards,
monoclonal antibody detector antibodies, an anti-mouse, anti-dog, anti-chicken, or anti
human antibody with indicator molecule conjugated thereto, indicator charts for colorimetric
comparisons, disposable gloves, decontamination instructions, applicator sticks or containers,
a sample preparatory cup, etc. In one embodiment, a kit comprises buffers or other reagents
appropriate for constituting a reaction medium allowing the formation of a peptide-antibody
complex.
[00112] Such kits provide a convenient, efficient way for a clinical laboratory to diagnose
infection by a microbial agent, especially pathogenic microbial agents, as described
elsewhere herein and known in the art. Such kits can also provide a convenient, efficient way
for a clinical laboratory to diagnose other conditions related to the presence of any antibody
of interest. For example, certain auto-immune disorders can associate with certain types of
antibodies. Thus, to the extent that disease-related antibody/antigen combinations are known,
the present invention can provide sensitive and accurate diagnostics of such diseases. Specific
kits provide detection of Borrelia,such as a B. burgdorferi,and thus aid in the diagnosis of
Lyme disease.
[00113] In certain embodiments, the kits further comprise an instruction. For example, in
certain embodiments, the kits comprise an instruction indicating how to use the kit detect an
antibody, such as an antibody to a microbial antigen (e.g., Borrelia antigen,Ehrlichia
antigen), or to diagnose a disease, such as a microbial-related disease (e.g., Lyme disease,
Ehrlichiosis). In certain embodiments, the kits comprise an instruction indicating how to use
a population of beads, a plate, or a device (e.g., lateral flow device) to detect an antibody to a
microbial antigen such as a Borrelia antigen or Ehrlichia, or to diagnose a microbial-related
disease such as Lyme disease (Borreliosis) or Ehrlichiosis. In certain embodiments, the kits
                                                36

    WO 2013/078227                                                             PCT/US2012/066108
provide instructions for combining the detectable Fc-binding molecule, the antibody-specific,
detectable antigen-conjugate or antigenic peptide-conjugate, and the test sample in any order
prior to application to the sample loading region of the detection system (e.g., a lateral flow
assay device, microtiter plate, analytical rotor). In some embodiments, the kits include
instructions for combining the detectable antigen-conjugate or antigenic peptide-conjugate
with the test sample such that the detectable antigen-conjugate or antigenic peptide-conjugate
will be present in a particular ratio with the detectable Fc-binding molecule to achieve a
desired level of signal amplification. The kits may also provide instructions for optimization
of buffers, optimization of the ratios of the various components (e.g., Fc-binding molecule,
antigen or antigenic peptide, test sample), and optimization of the order of the mixture and
application steps (e.g., mix all components prior to application, mix only certain components
and apply others separately).
[00114] The peptides, compositions and devices comprising the peptides, kits and methods of
the invention offer a number of advantages. For example, they allow for simple, inexpensive,
rapid, sensitive and accurate detection of antibodies of interest, and diagnostic of related
conditions, without significant false positive or background signals. This allows for an
accurate and sensitive diagnosis, even of samples containing very low, and even otherwise
undetectable, levels of antibodies.
                                              EXAMPLES
Example 1: Protein A Enhances Specific Detection of Antibody in a Lyme Disease
Specific Lateral Flow Assay
[00115] Tests were performed to determine the impact of adding Protein A-CGC (colloidal
gold conjugate) to a Lyme disease-specific lateral flow assay, while testing a negative
sample, a Lyme-positive sample, and a low-level Lyme-positive sample. The purpose was to
observe and classify the effect of Protein A-CGC on potential false signal(s) while
maintaining adequate sensitivity of the assay. Various Protein A-CGC concentrations were
tested in relation to a Protein A-CGC negative control. The lateral flow assay performed in
this test is similar to that illustrated in Figures 2 and 3. The results are shown in Table 1
below, as indicated by the Reactivity score (scale of 0-5 where a higher number indicates a
positive result).
                                                   37

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
Table 1: Summary of Test Results (Reactivity Score)
                         Low Pos       Low Pos       Dolly Pos    Dolly Pos    Neg_345      Neg_345
                                       WB 1:8        WB 1:8       WB 1:8       Plasma 1:8   Plasma
                         WB 1:8
 Testing Condition:      Dilution      Dilution      Dilution     Dilution     Dilution     1:8
                                       CB25 Pre-     CB25 Pre-    CB25 Pre-    CB25 Pre-    Dilution
                         CB25 Pre-
                         Mix           Mix           Mix          Mix          Mix          CB25
 Control: NO Protein A   0             0.25          1.5          1.5          0.25         0.25
  1X Protein A           3.5           3.5           3.5          3.5          0.5          0.5
  1:2 Dilution Protein A 3.5           3.5           3.75         3.75         0.25         0.25
  1:4 Dilution Protein A 1.25          1.25          2.25         2.25         0.25         0.25
  1:8 Dilution Protein A 0.5           0.75          2            2            0.25         0.25
[00116] As shown in Table 1, the addition of Protein A-CGC amplified the signal of all
Lyme-positive samples tested, and especially enabled detection of the 'low' positive samples.
Without Protein A-CGC, the low positive samples were undetectable, showing a Reactivity
score comparable to the negative samples (~0.25 or less). In contrast, the addition of Protein
A-CGC at 1X concentration and 1:2 dilution amplified the signal significantly, showing a
Reactivity score of about 3.5. Protein A-CGC thus significantly improve detection of target
antibodies in this Lyme-disease specific lateral flow assay.
Example 2: Protein A Enhances Specific Detection of Antibody in a Lateral Flow Assay
Performed on a Stressed Biological Sample
[00117] Tests were performed to determine the impact of adding Protein A-CGC (colloidal
gold conjugate) to a previously stressed 48BSA (bovine serum albumin)/DAG IgG conjugate
mixture. The conjugate mixture was pre-stressed for 15 days in an incubator at 35C. This
experiment tested both stressed and non-stressed samples in the presence or absence of
Protein A-CGC. The lateral flow assay performed in this test is similar to that illustrated in
Figures 2 and 3. The results are shown in Table 1 below, as indicated by the Reactivity score
(scale of 0-5 where a higher number indicates a positive result). The results are shown in
Table 2 below.
                                                38

   WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
Table 2: Summary of Test Results for Stressed v. Non-Stressed Samples
                                                              Neg SCA30   -       Neg SCA30
 Sample              Pos 11-0483         Pos_11-0483
                                                               2235HI             2235HI
 Temperature         2-8'C               35'C                  2-8'C              35'C
 Day 1               2.25                2.0                   0                  0
 Day 15              2.5                 0.75                  0                  0
 Day 15 + PA         2.75                 1.25                 0                  0
[00118] As shown in Table 2 above, the addition of Protein A-CGC to the lateral flow assay
mixture amplified the signal of the day 15 stressed (35 'C) biological sample relative to the
absence of Protein A-CGC, as shown by an increased Reactivity score from 0.75 to 1.75. The
day 15 non-stressed sample (2-8'C) was also slightly affected by addition of Protein A-CGC,
as shown by the increased Reactivity score from 2.25 to 2.75. Also, the negative samples
were not altered by addition of Protein A-CGC.
[00119] To the extent that any definitions in documents incorporated by reference are
inconsistent with the definitions provided herein, the definitions provided herein are
controlling. Although the invention has been described with reference to the presently
preferred embodiments, it should be understood that various changes and modifications, as
would be obvious to one skilled in the art, can be made without departing from the spirit of
the invention. Accordingly, the invention is limited only by the following claims.
                                               39

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
                                            CLAIMS
What is claimed:
1.       A method for detecting an antibody in a test sample comprising:
                (a) contacting the test sample with a first detector to form a first complex
comprising the first detector and the antibody, wherein the first detector comprises an Fc
binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity;
                (b) contacting the first complex with a capture entity immobilized on a test
region of a surface, wherein the capture entity is capable of specifically binding to the
antibody; and
                (c) detecting the presence of a signal from the first detectable entity in the test
region, wherein the presence of the signal is indicative of the presence of the antibody in the
test sample.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first detector is immobilized to a conjugate region
of the surface and wherein the conjugate region does not overlap with the test region of the
surface.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the Fc-binding molecule is protein A and/or protein
G.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the capture entity is an antigen or antigenic peptide.
5.       The method of claim 4, wherein said antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism
selected from the group consisting of heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichiachaffeensis,
Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borreliaafzelii, Borreliagarinii,Anaplasma
phagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, influenza A strain,
influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Legionella, adenovirus,
rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and Group A
Streptococcus.
                                                40

    WO 2013/078227                                                           PCT/US2012/066108
6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first detectable entity is a metal nanoparticle,
metal nanoshell, fluorophore, or colored latex particle.
7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the metallic nanoparticle or metallic nanoshell is
selected from the group consisting of gold particles, silver particles, copper particles,
platinum particles, cadmium particles, composite particles, gold hollow spheres, gold-coated
silica nanoshells, and silica-coated gold shells.
8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising contacting the test sample with a second
detector, wherein the second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to
a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of specifically
binding to the antibody.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the first and second detector are immobilized on a
conjugate region and wherein the conjugate region does not overlap with the test region of
the surface.
10.     The method of claim 2 or 9, wherein the conjugate region further comprising a control
detector.
11.     The method of claim 8, wherein the first and second detectable entities are the same.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the first and second detectable entities are gold
nanoparticles.
13.     The method of claim 8, wherein the first and second detectable entities are different.
14.     The method of claim 8, wherein the surface is a flow path in a lateral flow assay
device, a surface of a microtiter plate or a flow path in an analytical rotor.
15.     The method of claim 8, wherein said antigen or antigenic peptide is from an organism
selected from the group consisting of heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichiachaffeensis,
Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borreliaafzelii, Borreliagarinii,Anaplasma
                                                 41

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
phagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, influenza A strain,
influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Legionella, adenovirus,
rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and Group A
Streptococcus.
16.      The method of claim 8, wherein the first detector and the second detector are present
in a ratio of about 20:1 to about 1:1.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the first detector comprises an Fc-binding molecule
conjugated to a first detectable entity, and wherein the Fc-binding molecule is protein A
and/or protein G.
18.      The method of claim 16, wherein the first detector comprises protein A and protein G
each conjugated to a first detectable entity.
19.      The method of claim 18, wherein protein A and protein G are present in a ratio of
about 10:1 to about 1:10.
20.      The method of claim 1, wherein the surface is a flow path in a lateral flow assay
device or a flow path in an analytical rotor.
21.      The method of claim 1, wherein the test sample is a bodily fluid, extract of a bodily
organ, blood, serum, or plasma.
22.      An antibody detection device comprising:
                 a sample loading region;
                 a conjugate region, wherein said conjugate region comprises a mobilizable
first detector including an Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity; and
                 a test region, wherein said test region comprises an immobilized capture
entity capable of specifically binding to the antibody;
                 wherein the sample loading region, the conjugate region and the test region are
configured so that in operation a liquid sample when loaded into the sample loading region, is
in fluid communication with the conjugate region and the test region.
                                                 42

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
23.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein the Fc-binding molecule is protein A
and/or protein G.
24.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein the capture entity is an antigen or antigenic
peptide.
25.     The detection device of claim 24, wherein said antigen or antigenic peptide is from an
organism selected from the group consisting of heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichia
chaffeensis, Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borrelia afzelii, Borreliagarinii,
Anaplasmaphagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, influenza
A strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Legionella,
adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and
Group A Streptococcus.
26.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein the first detectable entity is a metal
nanoparticle, metal nanoshell, fluorophore, or colored latex particle.
27.     The detection device of claim 26, wherein the metallic nanoparticle or metallic
nanoshell is selected from the group consisting of gold particles, silver particles, copper
particles, platinum particles, cadmium particles, composite particles, gold hollow spheres,
gold-coated silica nanoshells, and silica-coated gold shells.
28.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein said device further comprises a control
region in fluid communication with a liquid sample when it is loaded to the sample loading
region.
29.     The detection device of claim 28, wherein said control region comprises an
immobilized binding partner capable of specifically binding a control detector.
30.     The detection device of claim 29, wherein said first detector comprises protein A or
protein G conjugated to a first detectable entity and said immobilized binding partner is an
anti-protein A or anti-protein G antibody.
                                                43

    WO 2013/078227                                                          PCT/US2012/066108
31.     The detection device of claim 22, further comprising an absorbent pad positioned
downstream of the test region.
32.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein said conjugate region is positioned
upstream of said sample loading region.
33.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein said conjugate region is positioned
downstream of said sample loading region.
34.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein said sample loading region comprises a
blood separator material.
35.     The detection device of claim 22, wherein said conjugate region further comprises a
mobilizable second detector, wherein the second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic
peptide conjugated to a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being
capable of specifically binding to the antibody.
36.     The detection device of claim 35, wherein the first and second detectable entities are
the same.
37.     The detection device of claim 36, wherein the first and second detectable entities are
gold nanoparticles.
38.     The detection device of claim 35, wherein the first and second detectable entities are
different.
39.     The detection device of claim 35, wherein said antigen or antigenic peptide is from an
organism selected from the group consisting of heartworm, Ehrlichiacanis, Ehrlichia
chaffeensis, Ehrlichiaewingii, Borrelia burgdorferi,Borrelia afzelii, Borreliagarinii,
Anaplasmaphagocytophilum, Anaplasmaplatys, feline leukemia virus, parvovirus, influenza
A strain, influenza B strain, avian influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Legionella,
                                                44

    WO 2013/078227                                                         PCT/US2012/066108
adenovirus, rotavirus, feline immunodeficiency virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and
Group A Streptococcus.
40.     The detection device of claim 33, wherein the first mobilizable detector and the
second mobilizable detector are present in a ratio of about 20:1 to about 1:1.
41.     The detection device of claim 40, wherein the first mobilizable detector comprises an
Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity, and wherein the Fc-binding
molecule is protein A and/or protein G.
42.     The detection device of claim 40, wherein the first mobilizable detector comprises
protein A and protein G each conjugated to a first detectable entity.
43.     The detection device of claim 42, wherein protein A and protein G are present in a
ratio of about 10:1 to about 1:10.
44.     A kit comprising the detection system of claim 22 and instructions for using the
system to detect an antibody in a test sample.
45.     The kit of claim 44, further comprising a second detector and instructions for
combining the second detector with the test sample prior to application to the sample loading
region of the detection system, wherein said second detector comprises an antigen or
antigenic peptide conjugated to a second detectable entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide
being capable of specifically binding to the antibody.
46.     The kit of claim 45, wherein the first mobilizable detector and the second detector are
present in a ratio of about 20:1 to about 1:1.
47.     The kit of claim 46, wherein the first mobilizable detector comprises an Fc-binding
molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity, and wherein the Fc-binding molecule is
protein A and/or protein G.
                                               45

    WO 2013/078227                                                            PCT/US2012/066108
48.      The kit of claim 46, wherein the first detector comprises protein A and protein G each
conjugated to a first detectable entity.
49.      The kit of claim 48, wherein protein A and protein G are present in a ratio of about
10:1 to about 1:10.
50.      A method of detecting an antibody in a test sample comprising applying the test
sample to the sample loading region of the detection system of claim 22 and detecting the
presence or absence of a signal from the first detectable entity in the test region.
51.      The method of claim 50 further comprising combining a second detector with the test
sample prior to application to the sample loading region of the detection system, wherein said
second detector comprises an antigen or antigenic peptide conjugated to a second detectable
entity, said antigen or antigenic peptide being capable of specifically binding to the antibody.
52.      The method of claim 51, wherein the second detector is added to the test sample such
that it will be present in a ratio of about 20:1 to about 1:1 with the first mobilizable detector.
53.      A capture complex comprising a capture entity, an antibody in a test sample, and a
first detector, wherein the capture entity binds to the antibody and wherein the first detector
comprises a Fc-binding molecule conjugated to a first detectable entity and binds to the Fc
region of the antibody.
54.      The capture complex of claim 53, further comprising a second detector, wherein the
second detector specifically binds to the variable region of the antibody.
55.      The capture complex of claim 53, wherein the capture complex is immobilized on a
test region of a surface.
                                                  46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
