                                    ABSTRACT
        The invention provides novel ligands of Kappa (K) opioid receptors, such as
can be used to modulate a Kappa opioid receptor. Methods of synthesis and
methods of use are also provided. Compounds of the invention can be used
therapeutically in the treatment of dissociative disorders or pain, or to provide
neuroprotection, or to induce diuresis, or to modulate the immune system, or for
treatment of one or more of an affective disorders comprising depression or
stress/anxiety; an addictive disorder; alcoholism, epilepsy; a cognition deficiency;
schizophrenia; Alzheimer's disease; or pain.

                             NOVEL KAPPA OPIOID LIGANDS
            This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2013302497, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5          This application claims the priority of U.S. provisional application Serial
   Number 61/683,861, filed August 16, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference
   in its entirety.
                      STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
            This invention was made with government support under grant number
10 MH084512-02, awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. government
   has certain rights in the invention.
                                        BACKGROUND
            The kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) is a member of the opioid receptor family
   which binds the opioid peptide dynorphin as the primary endogenous ligand. KOR
15 has a wide, yet distinct distribution in the brain, spinal cord, and in pain neurons.
   Recently, there have been significant advances in understanding the role of KOR in
   controlling cognition and emotion in addition to insights into its involvement in
   neurological diseases such as epilepsy and neuropathic pain. These pathologies share
   the common feature of disruption of the induction of neuroplasticity. While this is not
20 a particularly novel idea in epilepsy, an emerging scheme in the field of psychiatric
   disorders is that diseases such as addition and depression also stem from disruption in
   normal synaptic physiology and aberrant neuroplasticity that ultimately lead to
   maladaptive learning. Kappa opioid receptors have recently been investigated for their
   therapeutic potential in the treatment of addiction (Hasebe K, Kawai K, Suzuki T,
25 Kawamura K, Tanaka T, Narita M, Nagase H, Suzuki T (2004) "Possible
   pharmacotherapy of the opioid kappa receptor agonist for drug dependence" Annals of
   the New York Academy ofSciences 1025: 404-13), and evidence points towards
   dynorphin to be one of the body's natural addiction control mechanism (Frankel PS,
   Alburges ME, Bush L, Hanson GR, Kish SJ (2008) "Striatal and ventral pallidum
30 dynorphin concentrations are markedly increased in human chronic cocaine users"
   Neuropharmacology55 (1): 41-6).
            In experimental "addiction" models the kappa-opioid receptor has also been
   shown to influence stress-induced relapse to drug seeking behavior. For the drug
   dependent individual, risk of relapse is a major obstacle to becoming drug free.
                                                 1

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      Recent reports demonstrated that KOR are required for stress-induced
      reinstatement of cocaine seeking (Beardsley PM, Howard JL, Shelton KL, Carroll
      FI (2005) "Differential effects of the novel kappa opioid receptor antagonist,
      JDTic, on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking induced by footshock stressors vs
  5   cocaine primes and its antidepressant-like effects in rats" Psychopharmacology
      (Berl.) 183 (1): 118-26; Redila VA, Chavkin C (2008). "Stress-induced
      reinstatement of cocaine seeking is mediated by the kappa opioid system"
      Psychopharmacology200 (1): 59-70; Blum K, Braverman ER, Holder JM, Lubar
      JF, Monastra VJ, Miller D, Lubar JO, Chen TJ, Comings DE (2000) "Reward
 10   deficiency syndrome: a biogenetic model for the diagnosis and treatment of
      impulsive, addictive, and compulsive behaviors" Journalofpsychoactive drugs 32
      Suppl: i-iv, 1-112). It has also been reported that the dynorphin-Kappa opioid
      system is critical for stress-induced drug seeking. In animal models, stress has been
      demonstrated to potentiate cocaine reward behavior in a kappa opioid-dependent
 15   manner (McLaughlin JP, Marton- Popovici M, Chavkin C. (2003) "Kappa opioid
      receptor antagonism and prodynophin gene disruption block stress-induced
      behavioral responses" The Journalof Neuroscience 23 (13): 5674-83; Mash,
      Deborah C. (2006) "Social defeat stress- induced behavioral responses are
      mediated by the endogenous kappa opioid system" Neuropsychopharmacology31
 20   (4): 787-94). These effects are likely caused by stress-induced drug craving that
      requires activation of the dynorphin-KOR system. Although seemingly
      paradoxical, it is well known that drug taking results in a change from homeostasis
      to allostasis.
              It has been suggested that withdrawal-induced dysphoria or stress-induced
 25   dysphoria may act as a driving force by which the individual seeks alleviation via
      drug taking. The rewarding properties of the drug are altered, and it is clear kappa
      opioid activation following stress increase its rewarding properties and cause
      potentiation of reward behavior, or reinstatement to drug seeking. The stress
      induced activation of kappa-opioid receptors is likely due to multiple signaling
 30   mechanisms. The kappa-opioid receptors have marked effects on all types of
      addiction including alcohol and opiate abuse. Cocaine addiction, as well as
      addiction to alcohol or other drug, is a world wide problem that has serious social,
      mental, and physical consequences. While various forms of prevention and/or
      treatment of addiction have been attempted, there remains a need for an
                                                 2

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      improvement. For example, small molecules have been used as drugs to decrease
      the physical and/or mental conditions associated with addiction.
              It is now thought that dysphoric elements of stress contributed to the
      development of anxiety states and clinical depression. There is recent evidence to
  5   suggest that dysphoric components of stress are encoded by the dynorphin-KOR
      system (Land BB, Bruchas MR, Lemos JC, Xu M, Melief EJ, Chavkin C (2008)
      "The dysphoric component of stress is encoded by activation of the dynorphin
      kappa-opioid system" J Neurosci 28(2):407-414). It has been demonstrated that
      stress decreases BDNF expression, which in turn predisposes the individual to
 10   depressive mood. Acute pretreatment with high doses of norBNI has been shown
      to increase BDNF mRNA expression in the area of hippocampus and the amygdala
      (Zhang H, Shi YG, Woods JH, Watson SJ, Ko MC (2007) "Central kappa-opioid
      receptor mediated antidepressant-like effects of nor Binaltorphimine: behavioral
      and BDNF mRNA expression studies" Eur J Pharmacol570(1-3):89-96; Duman
 15   RS, Monteggia LM (2006) "A neurotrophic model for stress-related mood
      disorders" Biol Psychiatry 59(12):1116-1127).
              Several behavioral studies using KOR agonists/antagonists as well as
      knockout animals have demonstrated a potential role for the dynorphin-KOR
      system in analgesia of neuropathic pain. (Gaveriaux-Ruff C, Kieffer BL (2002)
 20   "Opioid receptor genes inactivated in mice: the highlights" Neuropeptides 36 (2
      3): 62-71).
              There is a body of evidence to suggest that dynorphin peptide and message
      expression is up-regulated in both epileptic humans and animal models of epilepsy,
      suggesting that the dynorphin-KOR system play a significant role in the disease.
 25   (Bausch SB, Esteb TM, Terman GW, Chavkin C (1998) "Administered and
      endogenously released kappa opioids decrease pilocarpine-induced seizures and
      seizure-induced histopathology" J PharmacolExp Ther 284(3):1147-1155; de
      Lanerolle NC, Williamson A, Meredith C et al (1997) "Dynorphin and the kappa 1
      ligand [3H] U69,593 binding in the human epileptogenic hippocampus" Epilepsy
 30   Res 28(3):189-205; Loacker S, Sayyah M, Wittmann W, Herzog H, Schwarzer C
      (2007) "Endogenous dynorphin in epileptogenesis and epilepsy: anticonvulsant net
      effect via kappa opioid receptors" Brain 130(pt 4):1017-1028; Houser CR,
      Miyashiro JE, Swartz BE, Walsh GO, Rich JR, Delgado-Escueta AV (1990)
      "Altered patterns of dynorphin immunoreactivity suggest mossy fiber
                                                3

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      reorganization in human hippocampal epilepsy" J Neurosci 10(1):267-282; De
      Sarro GB, De Sarro A (1993) "Anticonvulsant properties of non-competitive
      antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in genetically epilepsy-prone rats:
      comparison with CPPene" Neuropharmacology32(1):51-58).
  5           It has been suggested that the dynorphin-KOR system is involved in the
      learning process. A negative correlation between the level of spatial learning and
      the level of dinorphin immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation has been
      demonstrated (Jiang HK, Owyang VV, Hong JS, Gallagher M (1989) "Elevated
      dynorphin in the hippocampal formation of aged rats: relation to cognitive
 10   impairment on a spatial learning task" Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 86(8):2948-295 1).
      In humans, the brain of Alzheimer disease patients have significant increase in
      dynorphin expression compared to age matched controls (Mathieu-Kia AM, Fan
      LQ, Kreek MJ, Simon EJ, Hiller JM (2001) "Mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor
      populations are differentially altered in distinct areas of postmortem brains of
 15   Alzheimer's disease patients" Brain Res 893(1-2):121-134).
                                           SUMMARY
              The present invention is directed in various embodiments to novel ligands
      of kappa opioid receptors, i.e., modulators of the class of opioid receptors termed
      Kappa (K) receptors. In various embodiments, the invention provides a compound
 20   of formula (I)
                                   Y
                           X        *       Z                R1
                                :A A
                          W        N                            (R2)m
                                                 Cyc                 m
                                                                       (I)
      wherein
              the ring designated A can further comprise an additional nitrogen atom in
 25   any position that bears any of W, X, Y, or Z, provided that the respective group W,
      X, Y, or Z is absent from that position;
              W is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (Cl-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
                                                  4

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
               X is H, halo, nitro, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C1-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl,
      (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, NRaRb, N(Ra)C(=O)(C 1-C6)alkyl, CO 2 R, or heteroaryl;
               Y is H, halo, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
               Z is halo, hydroxy, CO 2 R, C(=O)NR 2, CN, heteroaryl(Co-C 6 )alkyl,
  5   hydroxy(C 1-C6)alkyl, HC(=O), HC(=O), (Cl -C6)C(=0), or CR(=NOR);
               wherein each independently selected R is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, (C6-C10)aryl, or (C6-C10)aryl(C1-C6)alkyl;
               or, any adjacent pair of W, X, and Y, can together with the atoms to which
      they are bonded form a fused cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, or aryl, or heteroaryl, any of
 10   which can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NRa R , N(Ra)C(=o)(C1-C6)alkyl, , CO 2 R, or
      heteroaryl;
               wherein any alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl of W, X, Y, or Z, can be
      unsubstituted or can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (Cl
 15   C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NRa R , N(Ra)C(=o)(C1-C6)alkyl, CO 2R,
      or heteroaryl;
               the ring system Cyc, comprising the nitrogen atom, comprises a mono-, bi-,
      or tri-cyclic heterocyclyl bonded to ring A via the nitrogen atom, wherein Cyc
      comprises a 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 membered ring, optionally bridged with one or two
 20   bridges independently comprising 0, 1, or 2 carbon atoms, the ring system Cyc
      optionally containing 1 or 2 additional heteroatoms selected from NR, 0, or S(O)q
                                                      1                                 2
      wherein q = 0, 1, or 2; wherein R , and optionally, m independently selected R,
      are bonded to the ring system Cyc, m = 0, 1, or 2;
               R is (CH 2 )nNRaR , wherein Ra and Rb are each independently H, alkyl,
 25   cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, wherein any alkyl,
      cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, is substituted with
      0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently selected J, and wherein any heterocyclyl or cycloalkyl
      is mono-, bi-, or tri-cyclic; or Ra and Rb together with the nitrogen atom to which
      they are bonded form a heterocyclyl ring substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4
 30   independently selected J, wherein n = 0, 1, or 2;
               or R 1 is (CH 2 )p1 NRa(CH 2)p2 bonded to two carbon atoms of Cyc to form a
      5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocyclyl substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently
      selected J, pl and p2 are independently 0, 1, or 2, provided that pl + p2 is no less
      than 2;
                                                   5

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
               R 2 is (Cl-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, OR, CO 2 R, or halo, wherein m =
      0, 1, or 2;
               J is independently at each occurrence OR, (CT-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(CT
      C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, CO 2R, or halo;
  5            or any pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a pharmaceutical
      composition, comprising a compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically
      acceptable excipient.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of modulating a
 10   Kappa opioid receptor, comprising contacting the receptor with an effective
      amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention. The
      Kappa opioid receptor can be disposed within living human tissue, such as in a
      patient suffering from a dissociative disorder, or from pain.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of treatment of a
 15   dissociative disorder or pain in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering
      to the patient an effective amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of
      the invention at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the
      patient.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of providing
 20   neuroprotection to a patient comprising administering to the patient an effective
      amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention at a
      frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of modulating the
      immune system in a patient, comprising administering to the patient an effective
 25   amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention at a
      frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient.
               In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of inducing
      diuresis in a patient, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount or
      concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention at a frequency and for
 30   a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
      Definitions
                                                  6

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
               As used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
       "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
      otherwise.
               The term "about" as used herein, when referring to a numerical value or
  5   range, allows for a degree of variability in the value or range, for example, within
       10%, or within 5% of a stated value or of a stated limit of a range.
               All percent compositions are given as weight-percentages, unless otherwise
      stated.
               All average molecular weights of polymers are weight-average molecular
 10   weights, unless otherwise specified.
               As used herein, "individual" (as in the subject of the treatment) or "patient"
      means both mammals and non-mammals. Mammals include, for example,
      humans; non-human primates, e.g. apes and monkeys; and non-primates, e.g. dogs,
      cats, cattle, horses, sheep, and goats. Non-mammals include, for example, fish and
 15   birds.
               The term "disease" or "disorder" or "malcondition" are used
      interchangeably, and are used to refer to diseases or conditions wherein a kappa (K)
      opioid receptor plays a role in the biochemical mechanisms involved in the disease
      or malcondition or symptom(s) thereof such that a therapeutically beneficial effect
 20   can be achieved by acting on a kappa opioid receptor. "Acting on" a kappa opioid
      receptor, or "modulating" a kappa opioid receptor, can include binding to a kappa
      opioid receptor and/or inhibiting the bioactivity of a kappa opioid receptor and/or
      allosterically regulating the bioactivity of a kappa opioid receptor in vivo.
               The expression "effective amount", when used to describe therapy to an
 25   individual suffering from a disorder, refers to the amount of a compound of the
      invention that is effective to inhibit or otherwise act on a kappa opioid receptor in
      the individual's tissues wherein a kappa opioid receptor involved in the disorder is
      active, wherein such inhibition or other action occurs to an extent sufficient to
      produce a beneficial therapeutic effect.
 30            "Substantially" as the term is used herein means completely or almost
      completely; for example, a composition that is "substantially free" of a component
      either has none of the component or contains such a trace amount that any relevant
      functional property of the composition is unaffected by the presence of the trace
                                                   7

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      amount, or a compound is "substantially pure" is there are only negligible traces of
      impurities present.
              "Treating" or "treatment" within the meaning herein refers to an alleviation
      of symptoms associated with a disorder or disease, or inhibition of further
  5   progression or worsening of those symptoms, or prevention or prophylaxis of the
      disease or disorder, or curing the disease or disorder.   Similarly, as used herein, an
      "effective amount" or a "therapeutically effective amount" of a compound of the
      invention refers to an amount of the compound that alleviates, in whole or in part,
      symptoms associated with the disorder or condition, or halts or slows further
 10   progression or worsening of those symptoms, or prevents or provides prophylaxis
      for the disorder or condition. In particular, a "therapeutically effective amount"
      refers to an amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to
      achieve the desired therapeutic result.
              A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or
 15   detrimental effects of compounds of the invention are outweighed by the
      therapeutically beneficial effects.
              Phrases such as "under conditions suitable to provide" or "under conditions
      sufficient to yield" or the like, in the context of methods of synthesis, as used
      herein refers to reaction conditions, such as time, temperature, solvent, reactant
 20   concentrations, and the like, that are within ordinary skill for an experimenter to
      vary, that provide a useful quantity or yield of a reaction product. It is not
      necessary that the desired reaction product be the only reaction product or that the
      starting materials be entirely consumed, provided the desired reaction product can
      be isolated or otherwise further used.
 25           By "chemically feasible" is meant a bonding arrangement or a compound
      where the generally understood rules of organic structure are not violated; for
      example a structure within a definition of a claim that would contain in certain
      situations a pentavalent carbon atom that would not exist in nature would be
      understood to not be within the claim. The structures disclosed herein, in all of
 30   their embodiments are intended to include only "chemically feasible" structures,
      and any recited structures that are not chemically feasible, for example in a
      structure shown with variable atoms or groups, are not intended to be disclosed or
      claimed herein.
                                                   8

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
              An "analog" of a chemical structure, as the term is used herein, refers to a
      chemical structure that preserves substantial similarity with the parent structure,
      although it may not be readily derived synthetically from the parent structure. A
      related chemical structure that is readily derived synthetically from a parent
  5   chemical structure is referred to as a "derivative."
              When a substituent is specified to be an atom or atoms of specified
      identity, "or a bond", a configuration is referred to when the substituent is "a bond"
      that the groups that are immediately adjacent to the specified substituent are
      directly connected to each other in a chemically feasible bonding configuration.
 10           All chiral, diastereomeric, racemic forms of a structure are intended, unless
      a particular stereochemistry or isomeric form is specifically indicated. Compounds
      used in the present invention can include enriched or resolved optical isomers at
      any or all asymmetric atoms as are apparent from the depictions, at any degree of
      enrichment. Both racemic and diastereomeric mixtures, as well as the individual
 15   optical isomers can be isolated or synthesized so as to be substantially free of their
      enantiomeric or diastereomeric partners, and these are all within the scope of the
      invention.
              As used herein, the terms "stable compound" and "stable structure" are
      meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a
 20   useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture, and formulation into an efficacious
      therapeutic agent. Only stable compounds are contemplated herein.
              A "small molecule" refers to an organic compound, including an
      organometallic compound, of a molecular weight less than about 2 kDa, that is not
      a polynucleotide, a polypeptide, a polysaccharide, or a synthetic polymer
 25   composed of a plurality of repeating units.
              As to any of the groups described herein, which contain one or more
      substituents, it is understood that such groups do not contain any substitution or
      substitution patterns which are sterically impractical and/or synthetically non
      feasible. In addition, the compounds of this disclosed subject matter include all
 30   stereochemical isomers arising from the substitution of these compounds.
              In various embodiments, the compound or set of compounds, such as are
      among the inventive compounds or are used in the inventive methods, can be any
      one of any of the combinations and/or sub-combinations of the above-listed
      embodiments.
                                                  9

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
               When a group, e.g., an "alkyl" group, is referred to without any limitation
      on the number of atoms in the group, it is understood that the claim is definite and
      limited with respect the size of the alkyl group, both by definition; i.e., the size (the
      number of carbon atoms) possessed by a group such as an alkyl group is a finite
  5   number, less than the total number of carbon atoms in the universe and bounded by
      the understanding of the person of ordinary skill as to the size of the group as being
      reasonable for a molecular entity; and by functionality, i.e., the size of the group
      such as the alkyl group is bounded by the functional properties the group bestows
      on a molecule containing the group such as solubility in aqueous or organic liquid
 10   media. Therefore, a claim reciting an "alkyl" or other chemical group or moiety is
      definite and bounded, as the number of atoms in the group cannot be infinite.
               The inclusion of an isotopic form of one or more atoms in a molecule that
      is different from the naturally occurring isotopic distribution of the atom in
      nature is referred to as an "isotopically labeled form" of the molecule. All isotopic
 15   forms of atoms are included as options in the composition of any molecule, unless
      a specific isotopic form of an atom is indicated. For example, any hydrogen atom
      or set thereof in a molecule can be any of the isotopic forms of hydrogen, i.e.,
      protium ( 1H), deuterium (2H), or tritium ( 3JH) in any combination. Similarly, any
      carbon atom or set thereof in a molecule can be any of the isotopic form of
 20   carbons, such as "C,    1C, 13C,  or 1C, or any nitrogen atom or set thereof in a
      molecule can be any of the isotopic forms of nitrogen, such as 13N,    14N,  or 1N. A
      molecule can include any combination of isotopic forms in the component atoms
      making up the molecule, the isotopic form of every atom forming the molecule
      being independently selected. In a multi-molecular sample of a compound, not
 25   every individual molecule necessarily has the same isotopic composition. For
      example, a sample of a compound can include molecules containing various
      different isotopic compositions, such as in a tritium or 4C radiolabeled sample
      where only some fraction of the set of molecules making up the macroscopic
      sample contains a radioactive atom. It is also understood that many elements that
 30   are not artificially isotopically enriched themselves are mixtures of naturally
      occurring isotopic forms, such as    1N  and 1N, 32S and 34S, and so forth. A
      molecule as recited herein is defined as including isotopic forms of all its
      constituent elements at each position in the molecule. As is well known in the art,
      isotopically labeled compounds can be prepared by the usual methods of chemical
                                                  10

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      synthesis, except substituting an isotopically labeled precursor molecule. The
      isotopes, radiolabeled or stable, can be obtained by any method known in the art,
      such as generation by neutron absorption of a precursor nuclide in a nuclear
      reactor, by cyclotron reactions, or by isotopic separation such as by mass
  5   spectrometry. The isotopic forms are incorporated into precursors as required for
                                                            14
      use in any particular synthetic route. For example,      C and 3H can be prepared
      using neutrons generated in a nuclear reactor. Following nuclear transformation,
       1C  and 3H are incorporated into precursor molecules, followed by further
      elaboration as needed.
 10            The term "amino protecting group" or "N-protected" as used herein refers
      to those groups intended to protect an amino group against undesirable reactions
      during synthetic procedures and which can later be removed to reveal the amine.
      Commonly used amino protecting groups are disclosed in Protective Groups in
      Organic Synthesis, Greene, T.W.; Wuts, P. G. M., John Wiley & Sons, New York,
 15   NY, (3rd Edition, 1999). Amino protecting groups include acyl groups such as
      formyl, acetyl, propionyl, pivaloyl, t-butylacetyl, 2-chloroacetyl, 2-bromoacetyl,
      trifluoroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, o-nitrophenoxyacetyl, a-chlorobutyryl, benzoyl, 4
      chlorobenzoyl, 4-bromobenzoyl, 4-nitrobenzoyl, and the like; sulfonyl groups such
      as benzenesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl and the like; alkoxy- or aryloxy-carbonyl
 20   groups (which form urethanes with the protected amine) such as
      benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), p-chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl,
      p-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, p-nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2
      nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p-bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,5-dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4
 25   dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2-nitro-4,5
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 1-(p
      biphenylyl)-1-methylethoxycarbonyl, a,a-dimethyl-3,5
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, benzhydryloxycarbonyl, t-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc),
      diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl, isopropyloxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl,
 30   methoxycarbonyl, allyloxycarbonyl (Alloc), 2,2,2-trichloroethoxycarbonyl, 2
      trimethylsilylethyloxycarbonyl (Teoc), phenoxycarbonyl, 4-nitrophenoxycarbonyl,
      fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl (Fmoc), cyclopentyloxycarbonyl,
      adamantyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexyloxycarbonyl, phenylthiocarbonyl and the like;
      aralkyl groups such as benzyl, triphenylmethyl, benzyloxymethyl and the like; and
                                                 11

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      silyl groups such as trimethylsilyl and the like. Amine protecting groups also
      include cyclic amino protecting groups such as phthaloyl and dithiosuccinimidyl,
      which incorporate the amino nitrogen into a heterocycle. Typically, amino
      protecting groups include formyl, acetyl, benzoyl, pivaloyl, t-butylacetyl,
  5   phenylsulfonyl, Alloc, Teoc, benzyl, Fmoc, Boc and Cbz. It is well within the skill
      of the ordinary artisan to select and use the appropriate amino protecting group for
      the synthetic task at hand.
              The term "hydroxyl protecting group" or "O-protected" as used herein
      refers to those groups intended to protect an OH group against undesirable
 10   reactions during synthetic procedures and which can later be removed to reveal the
      amine. Commonly used hydroxyl protecting groups are disclosed in Protective
      Groups in Organic Synthesis, Greene, T.W.; Wuts, P. G. M., John Wiley & Sons,
      New York, NY, (3rd Edition, 1999). Hydroxyl protecting groups include acyl
      groups such as formyl, acetyl, propionyl, pivaloyl, t-butylacetyl, 2-chloroacetyl, 2
 15   bromoacetyl, trifluoroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, o-nitrophenoxyacetyl, a
      chlorobutyryl, benzoyl, 4-chlorobenzoyl, 4-bromobenzoyl, 4-nitrobenzoyl, and the
      like; sulfonyl groups such as benzenesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl and the like;
      acyloxy groups (which form urethanes with the protected amine) such as
      benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), p-chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl,
 20   p-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, p-nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2
      nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p-bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,5-dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2-nitro-4,5
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 1-(p
 25   biphenylyl)-1-methylethoxycarbonyl, a,a-dimethyl-3,5
      dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, benzhydryloxycarbonyl, t-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc),
      diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl, isopropyloxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl,
      methoxycarbonyl, allyloxycarbonyl (Alloc), 2,2,2-trichloroethoxycarbonyl, 2
      trimethylsilylethyloxycarbonyl (Teoc), phenoxycarbonyl, 4-nitrophenoxycarbonyl,
 30   fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl (Fmoc), cyclopentyloxycarbonyl,
      adamantyloxycarbonyl, cyclohexyloxycarbonyl, phenylthiocarbonyl and the like;
      aralkyl groups such as benzyl, triphenylmethyl, benzyloxymethyl and the like; and
      silyl groups such as trimethylsilyl and the like. It is well within the skill of the
                                                 12

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      ordinary artisan to select and use the appropriate hydroxyl protecting group for the
      synthetic task at hand.
               In general, "substituted" refers to an organic group as defined herein in
      which one or more bonds to a hydrogen atom contained therein are replaced by one
  5   or more bonds to a non-hydrogen atom such as, but not limited to, a halogen (i.e.,
      F, Cl, Br, and I); an oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups, alkoxy
      groups, aryloxy groups, aralkyloxy groups, oxo(carbonyl) groups, carboxyl groups
      including carboxylic acids, carboxylates, and carboxylate esters; a sulfur atom in
      groups such as thiol groups, alkyl and aryl sulfide groups, sulfoxide groups,
 10   sulfone groups, sulfonyl groups, and sulfonamide groups; a nitrogen atom in
      groups such as amines, hydroxylamines, nitriles, nitro groups, N-oxides,
      hydrazides, azides, and enamines; and other heteroatoms in various other groups.
      Non-limiting examples of substituents J that can be bonded to a substituted carbon
      (or other) atom include F, Cl, Br, I, OR', OC(O)N(R') 2, CN, NO, NO 2 , ONO 2 ,
 15   azido, CF 3 , OCF 3, R', 0 (oxo), S (thiono), methylenedioxy, ethylenedioxy, N(R') 2 ,
      SR', SOR', SO 2 R', SO 2N(R') 2 , SO 3 R', C(O)R', C(O)C(O)R', C(O)CH 2C(O)R',
      C(S)R', C(O)OR', OC(O)R', C(O)N(R') 2, OC(O)N(R') 2, C(S)N(R') 2, (CH 2)0
      2 N(R')C(O)R',  (CH 2) 0-2N(R')N(R') 2, N(R')N(R')C(O)R', N(R')N(R')C(O)OR',
      N(R')N(R')CON(R') 2, N(R')SO 2R', N(R')SO 2N(R') 2, N(R')C(O)OR', N(R')C(O)R',
 20   N(R')C(S)R', N(R')C(O)N(R') 2, N(R')C(S)N(R') 2, N(COR')COR', N(OR')R',
      C(=NH)N(R') 2, C(O)N(OR')R', or C(=NOR')R' wherein R' can be hydrogen or a
      carbon-based moiety, and wherein the carbon-based moiety can itself be further
      substituted; for example, wherein R' can be hydrogen, alkyl, acyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
      aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, or heteroarylalkyl, wherein any alkyl, acyl,
 25   cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, or heteroarylalkyl or R' can be
      independently mono- or multi-substituted with J; or wherein two R' groups bonded
      to a nitrogen atom or to adjacent nitrogen atoms can together with the nitrogen
      atom or atoms form a heterocyclyl, which can be mono- or independently multi
      substituted with J.
 30            When a substituent is monovalent, such as, for example, F or Cl, it is
      bonded to the atom it is substituting by a single bond. When a substituent is more
      than monovalent, such as 0, which is divalent, it can be bonded to the atom it is
      substituting by more than one bond, i.e., a divalent substituent is bonded by a
      double bond; for example, a C substituted with 0 forms a carbonyl group, C=O,
                                                   13

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      which can also be written as "CO", "C(O)", or "C(=O)", wherein the C and the 0
      are double bonded. When a carbon atom is substituted with a double-bonded
      oxygen (=0) group, the oxygen substituent is termed an "oxo" group.         When a
      divalent substituent such as NR is double-bonded to a carbon atom, the resulting
  5   C(=NR) group is termed an "imino" group. When a divalent substituent such as S
      is double-bonded to a carbon atom, the results C(=S) group is termed a
       "thiocarbonyl" or "thiono" group.
                Alternatively, a divalent substituent such as 0 or S can be connected by
      two single bonds to two different carbon atoms. For example, 0, a divalent
 10   substituent, can be bonded to each of two adjacent carbon atoms to provide an
      epoxide group, or the 0 can form a bridging ether group, termed an "oxy" group,
      between adjacent or non-adjacent carbon atoms, for example bridging the 1,4
      carbons of a cyclohexyl group to form a [2.2.1]-oxabicyclo system. Further, any
      substituent can be bonded to a carbon or other atom by a linker, such as (CH 2 )n or
 15   (CR' 2 )n wherein n is 1, 2, 3, or more, and each R' is independently selected.
                C(O) and S(0)2 groups can also be bound to one or two heteroatoms, such
      as nitrogen or oxygen, rather than to a carbon atom. For example, when a C(O)
      group is bound to one carbon and one nitrogen atom, the resulting group is called
      an "amide" or "carboxamide." When a C(O) group is bound to two nitrogen
 20   atoms, the functional group is termed a "urea." When a C(O) is bonded to one
      oxygen and one nitrogen atom, the resulting group is termed a "carbamate" or
      "urethane."    When a S(0) 2 group is bound to one carbon and one nitrogen atom,
      the resulting unit is termed a "sulfonamide." When a S(0) 2 group is bound to two
      nitrogen atoms, the resulting unit is termed a "sulfamate."
 25             Substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, and cycloalkenyl groups as
      well as other substituted groups also include groups in which one or more bonds to
      a hydrogen atom are replaced by one or more bonds, including double or triple
      bonds, to a carbon atom, or to a heteroatom such as, but not limited to, oxygen in
      carbonyl (oxo), carboxyl, ester, amide, imide, urethane, and urea groups; and
 30   nitrogen in imines, hydroxyimines, oximes, hydrazones, amidines, guanidines, and
      nitriles.
                Substituted ring groups such as substituted cycloalkyl, aryl, heterocyclyl
      and heteroaryl groups also include rings and fused ring systems in which a bond to
      a hydrogen atom is replaced with a bond to a carbon atom. Therefore, substituted
                                                   14

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      cycloalkyl, aryl, heterocyclyl and heteroaryl groups can also be substituted with
      alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups as defined herein.
              By a "ring system" as the term is used herein is meant a moiety comprising
      one, two, three or more rings, which can be substituted with non-ring groups or
  5   with other ring systems, or both, which can be fully saturated, partially
      unsaturated, fully unsaturated, or aromatic, and when the ring system includes
      more than a single ring, the rings can be fused, bridging, or spirocyclic.
              By "spirocyclic" is meant the class of structures wherein two rings are
      fused at a single tetrahedral carbon atom, as is well known in the art.
 10           As to any of the groups described herein, which contain one or more
      substituents, it is understood, of course, that such groups do not contain any
      substitution or substitution patterns which are sterically impractical and/or
      synthetically non-feasible. In addition, the compounds of this disclosed subject
      matter include all stereochemical isomers arising from the substitution of these
 15   compounds.
              Alkyl groups include straight chain and branched alkyl groups and
      cycloalkyl groups having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, and typically from 1 to
       12 carbons or, in some embodiments, from I to 8 carbon atoms. Examples of
      straight chain alkyl groups include those with from 1 to 8 carbon atoms such as
 20   methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, n-butyl, n-pentyl, n-hexyl, n-heptyl, and n-octyl groups.
      Examples of branched alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, isopropyl, iso
      butyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl, neopentyl, isopentyl, and 2,2-dimethylpropyl groups. As
      used herein, the term "alkyl" encompasses n-alkyl, isoalkyl, and anteisoalkyl
      groups as well as other branched chain forms of alkyl. Representative substituted
 25   alkyl groups can be substituted one or more times with any of the groups listed
      above, for example, amino, hydroxy, cyano, carboxy, nitro, thio, alkoxy, and
      halogen groups.
              Cycloalkyl groups are cyclic alkyl groups such as, but not limited to,
      cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl
 30   groups. In some embodiments, the cycloalkyl group can have 3 to about 8-12 ring
      members, whereas in other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms range
      from 3 to 4, 5, 6, or 7. Cycloalkyl groups further include polycyclic cycloalkyl
      groups such as, but not limited to, norbornyl, adamantyl, bornyl, camphenyl,
      isocamphenyl, and carenyl groups, and fused rings such as, but not limited to,
                                                  15

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      decalinyl, and the like. Cycloalkyl groups also include rings that are substituted
      with straight or branched chain alkyl groups as defined above. Representative
      substituted cycloalkyl groups can be mono-substituted or substituted more than
      once, such as, but not limited to, 2,2-, 2,3-, 2,4- 2,5- or 2,6-disubstituted
  5   cyclohexyl groups or mono-, di- or tri-substituted norbornyl or cycloheptyl groups,
      which can be substituted with, for example, amino, hydroxy, cyano, carboxy, nitro,
      thio, alkoxy, and halogen groups. The term "cycloalkenyl" alone or in
      combination denotes a cyclic alkenyl group.
              The terms "carbocyclic," "carbocyclyl," and "carbocycle" denote a ring
 10   structure wherein the atoms of the ring are carbon, such as a cycloalkyl group or an
      aryl group. In some embodiments, the carbocycle has 3 to 8 ring members,
      whereas in other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms is 4, 5, 6, or 7.
      Unless specifically indicated to the contrary, the carbocyclic ring can be
      substituted with as many as N-i substituents wherein N is the size of the
 15   carbocyclic ring with, for example, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, amino, aryl, hydroxy,
      cyano, carboxy, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, nitro, thio, alkoxy, and halogen groups,
      or other groups as are listed above. A carbocyclyl ring can be a cycloalkyl ring, a
      cycloalkenyl ring, or an aryl ring. A carbocyclyl can be monocyclic or polycyclic,
      and if polycyclic each ring can be independently be a cycloalkyl ring, a
 20   cycloalkenyl ring, or an aryl ring.
              (Cycloalkyl)alkyl groups, also denoted cycloalkylalkyl, are alkyl groups as
      defined above in which a hydrogen or carbon bond of the alkyl group is replaced
      with a bond to a cycloalkyl group as defined above.
              Alkenyl groups include straight and branched chain and cyclic alkyl groups
 25   as defined above, except that at least one double bond exists between two carbon
      atoms. Thus, alkenyl groups have from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms, and typically
      from 2 to 12 carbons or, in some embodiments, from 2 to 8 carbon atoms.
      Examples include, but are not limited to vinyl, -CH=CH(CH 3), -CH=C(CH 3) 2,
      -C(CH 3)=CH 2 , -C(CH 3)=CH(CH 3 ), -C(CH 2 CH 3)=CH 2 , cyclohexenyl,
 30   cyclopentenyl, cyclohexadienyl, butadienyl, pentadienyl, and hexadienyl among
      others.
              Cycloalkenyl groups include cycloalkyl groups having at least one double
      bond between 2 carbons. Thus for example, cycloalkenyl groups include but are
      not limited to cyclohexenyl, cyclopentenyl, and cyclohexadienyl groups.
                                                  16

WO 2014/028829                                                                   PCT/US2013/055313
      Cycloalkenyl groups can have from 3 to about 8-12 ring members, whereas in
      other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms range from 3 to 5, 6, or 7.
      Cycloalkyl groups further include polycyclic cycloalkyl groups such as, but not
      limited to, norbornyl, adamantyl, bornyl, camphenyl, isocamphenyl, and carenyl
  5   groups, and fused rings such as, but not limited to, decalinyl, and the like, provided
      they include at least one double bond within a ring. Cycloalkenyl groups also
      include rings that are substituted with straight or branched chain alkyl groups as
      defined above.
               (Cycloalkenyl)alkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a
 10   hydrogen or carbon bond of the alkyl group is replaced with a bond to a
      cycloalkenyl group as defined above.
               Alkynyl groups include straight and branched chain alkyl groups, except
      that at least one triple bond exists between two carbon atoms. Thus, alkynyl
      groups have from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms, and typically from 2 to 12 carbons
 15   or, in some embodiments, from 2 to 8 carbon atoms. Examples include, but are not
      limited to -CCH, -C&C(CH 3), -C&C(CH 2CH3), -CH 2CCH, -CH 2C&C(CH3), and
      -CH 2 C&C(CH 2 CH 3 ) among others.
               The term "heteroalkyl" by itself or in combination with another term
      means, unless otherwise stated, a stable straight or branched chain alkyl group
 20   consisting of the stated number of carbon atoms and one or two heteroatoms
      selected from the group consisting of 0, N, and S, and wherein the nitrogen and
      sulfur atoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be
      optionally quaternized. The heteroatom(s) may be placed at any position of the
      heteroalkyl group, including between the rest of the heteroalkyl group and the
 25   fragment to which it is attached, as well as attached to the most distal carbon atom
      in the heteroalkyl group. Examples include: -O-CH 2 -CH 2 -CH 3 ,
      -CH 2 -CH 2 CH 2 -OH, -CH 2 -CH 2 -NH-CH 3 , -CH 2 -S-CH 2 -CH 3 , -CH 2 CH2-S(=O)-CH 3 ,
      and -CH 2CH 2 -0-CH 2 CH 2 -0-CH3 . Up to two heteroatoms may be consecutive,
      such as, for example, -CH 2 -NH-OCH 3 , or -CH2-CH2-S-S-CH          3.
 30            A "cycloheteroalkyl" ring is a cycloalkyl ring containing at least one
      heteroatom. A cycloheteroalkyl ring can also be termed a "heterocyclyl,"
      described below.
               The term "heteroalkenyl" by itself or in combination with another term
      means, unless otherwise stated, a stable straight or branched chain
                                                  17

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      monounsaturated or di-unsaturated hydrocarbon group consisting of the stated
      number of carbon atoms and one or two heteroatoms selected from the group
      consisting of 0, N, and S, and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms may
      optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized.
  5   Up to two heteroatoms may be placed consecutively. Examples include
      -CH=CH-0-CH 3, -CH=CH-CH 2-OH, -CH 2-CH=N-OCH 3, -CH=CH-N(CH3 )-CH 3,
      -CH 2-CH=CH-CH 2-SH, and and -CH=CH-0-CH 2CH 2-0-CH3.
              Aryl groups are cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that do not contain
      heteroatoms in the ring. Thus aryl groups include, but are not limited to, phenyl,
 10   azulenyl, heptalenyl, biphenyl, indacenyl, fluorenyl, phenanthrenyl, triphenylenyl,
      pyrenyl, naphthacenyl, chrysenyl, biphenylenyl, anthracenyl, and naphthyl groups.
      In some embodiments, aryl groups contain about 6 to about 14 carbons in the ring
      portions of the groups. Aryl groups can be unsubstituted or substituted, as defined
      above. Representative substituted aryl groups can be mono-substituted or
 15   substituted more than once, such as, but not limited to, 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, or 6
      substituted phenyl or 2-8 substituted naphthyl groups, which can be substituted
      with carbon or non-carbon groups such as those listed above.
              Aralkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a hydrogen or
      carbon bond of an alkyl group is replaced with a bond to an aryl group as defined
 20   above. Representative aralkyl groups include benzyl and phenylethyl groups and
      fused (cycloalkylaryl)alkyl groups such as 4-ethyl-indanyl. Aralkenyl group are
      alkenyl groups as defined above in which a hydrogen or carbon bond of an alkyl
      group is replaced with a bond to an aryl group as defined above.
              Heterocyclyl groups or the term "heterocyclyl" includes aromatic and non
 25   aromatic ring compounds containing 3 or more ring members, of which, one or
      more is a heteroatom such as, but not limited to, N, 0, and S. Thus a heterocyclyl
      can be a cycloheteroalkyl, or a heteroaryl, or if polycyclic, any combination
      thereof. In some embodiments, heterocyclyl groups include 3 to about 20 ring
      members, whereas other such groups have 3 to about 15 ring members. A
 30   heterocyclyl group designated as a C 2 -heterocyclyl can be a 5-ring with two carbon
      atoms and three heteroatoms, a 6-ring with two carbon atoms and four heteroatoms
      and so forth. Likewise a C4-heterocyclyl can be a 5-ring with one heteroatom, a 6
      ring with two heteroatoms, and so forth. The number of carbon atoms plus the
      number of heteroatoms sums up to equal the total number of ring atoms. A
                                                18

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      heterocyclyl ring can also include one or more double bonds. A heteroaryl ring is
      an embodiment of a heterocyclyl group. The phrase "heterocyclyl group" includes
      fused ring species including those comprising fused aromatic and non-aromatic
      groups. For example, a dioxolanyl ring and a benzdioxolanyl ring system
  5   (methylenedioxyphenyl ring system) are both heterocyclyl groups within the
      meaning herein. The phrase also includes polycyclic ring systems containing a
      heteroatom such as, but not limited to, quinuclidyl. Heterocyclyl groups can be
      unsubstituted, or can be substituted as discussed above. Heterocyclyl groups
      include, but are not limited to, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl,
 10   pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridinyl,
      thiophenyl, benzothiophenyl, benzofuranyl, dihydrobenzofuranyl, indolyl,
      dihydroindolyl, azaindolyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl, azabenzimidazolyl,
      benzoxazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, imidazopyridinyl,
      isoxazolopyridinyl, thianaphthalenyl, purinyl, xanthinyl, adeninyl, guaninyl,
 15   quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, quinoxalinyl, and quinazolinyl
      groups. Representative substituted heterocyclyl groups can be mono-substituted or
      substituted more than once, such as, but not limited to, piperidinyl or quinolinyl
      groups, which are 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, or 6-substituted, or disubstituted with groups such
      as those listed above.
 20           Heteroaryl groups are aromatic ring compounds containing 5 or more ring
      members, of which, one or more is a heteroatom such as, but not limited to, N, 0,
      and S; for instance, heteroaryl rings can have 5 to about 8-12 ring members. A
      heteroaryl group is a variety of a heterocyclyl group that possesses an aromatic
      electronic structure. A heteroaryl group designated as a C 2 -heteroaryl can be a 5
 25   ring with two carbon atoms and three heteroatoms, a 6-ring with two carbon atoms
      and four heteroatoms and so forth. Likewise a C 4 -heteroaryl can be a 5-ring with
      one heteroatom, a 6-ring with two heteroatoms, and so forth. The number of
      carbon atoms plus the number of heteroatoms sums up to equal the total number of
      ring atoms. Heteroaryl groups include, but are not limited to, groups such as
 30   pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridinyl,
      thiophenyl, benzothiophenyl, benzofuranyl, indolyl, azaindolyl, indazolyl,
      benzimidazolyl, azabenzimidazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzothiazolyl,
      benzothiadiazolyl, imidazopyridinyl, isoxazolopyridinyl, thianaphthalenyl, purinyl,
      xanthinyl, adeninyl, guaninyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl,
                                                  19

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      quinoxalinyl, and quinazolinyl groups. Heteroaryl groups can be unsubstituted, or
      can be substituted with groups as is discussed above. Representative substituted
      heteroaryl groups can be substituted one or more times with groups such as those
      listed above.
  5            Additional examples of aryl and heteroaryl groups include but are not
      limited to phenyl, biphenyl, indenyl, naphthyl (1 -naphthyl, 2-naphthyl), N
      hydroxytetrazolyl, N-hydroxytriazolyl, N-hydroxyimidazolyl, anthracenyl (1
      anthracenyl, 2-anthracenyl, 3-anthracenyl), thiophenyl (2-thienyl, 3-thienyl), furyl
      (2-furyl, 3-furyl) , indolyl, oxadiazolyl, isoxazolyl, quinazolinyl, fluorenyl,
 10   xanthenyl, isoindanyl, benzhydryl, acridinyl, thiazolyl, pyrrolyl (2-pyrrolyl),
      pyrazolyl (3-pyrazolyl), imidazolyl (1-imidazolyl, 2-imidazolyl, 4-imidazolyl, 5
      imidazolyl), triazolyl (1,2,3-triazol-1-yl, 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl 1,2,3-triazol-4-yl, 1,2,4
      triazol-3-yl), oxazolyl (2-oxazolyl, 4-oxazolyl, 5-oxazolyl), thiazolyl (2-thiazolyl,
      4-thiazolyl, 5-thiazolyl), pyridyl (2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl, 4-pyridyl), pyrimidinyl (2
 15   pyrimidinyl, 4-pyrimidinyl, 5-pyrimidinyl, 6-pyrimidinyl), pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl
      (3- pyridazinyl, 4-pyridazinyl, 5-pyridazinyl), quinolyl (2-quinolyl, 3-quinolyl, 4
      quinolyl, 5-quinolyl, 6-quinolyl, 7-quinolyl, 8-quinolyl), isoquinolyl (1
      isoquinolyl, 3-isoquinolyl, 4-isoquinolyl, 5-isoquinolyl, 6-isoquinolyl, 7
      isoquinolyl, 8-isoquinolyl), benzo[b]furanyl (2-benzo[b]furanyl, 3
 20   benzo[b]furanyl, 4-benzo[b]furanyl, 5-benzo[b]furanyl, 6-benzo[b]furanyl, 7
      benzo[b]furanyl), 2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]furanyl (2-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]furanyl),
      3-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]furanyl), 4-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]furanyl), 5-(2,3-dihydro
      benzo[b]furanyl), 6-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]furanyl), 7-(2,3-dihydro
      benzo[b]furanyl), benzo[b]thiophenyl (2-benzo[b]thiophenyl, 3
 25   benzo[b]thiophenyl, 4-benzo[b]thiophenyl, 5-benzo[b]thiophenyl, 6
      benzo[b]thiophenyl, 7-benzo[b]thiophenyl), 2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl, (2
      (2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl), 3-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl), 4-(2,3
      dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl), 5-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl), 6-(2,3-dihydro
      benzo[b]thiophenyl), 7-(2,3-dihydro-benzo[b]thiophenyl), indolyl (1-indolyl,
 30   2-indolyl, 3-indolyl, 4-indolyl, 5-indolyl, 6-indolyl, 7-indolyl), indazole (1
      indazolyl, 3-indazolyl, 4-indazolyl, 5-indazolyl, 6-indazolyl, 7-indazolyl),
      benzimidazolyl (1-benzimidazolyl, 2-benzimidazolyl, 4-benzimidazolyl, 5
      benzimidazolyl, 6-benzimidazolyl, 7-benzimidazolyl, 8-benzimidazolyl),
      benzoxazolyl (1 -benzoxazolyl, 2-benzoxazolyl), benzothiazolyl (1 -benzothiazolyl,
                                                  20

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      2-benzothiazolyl, 4-benzothiazolyl, 5-benzothiazolyl, 6-benzothiazolyl,
      7-benzothiazolyl), carbazolyl (1-carbazolyl, 2-carbazolyl, 3-carbazolyl,
      4-carbazolyl), 5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine (5H-dibenz[b,f]azepin-1-yl, 5H
      dibenz[b,f]azepine-2-yl, 5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-3-yl, 5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-4-yl,
  5   5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-yl), 10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine (10,11
      dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-1-yl, 10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-2-yl,
       10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-3-yl, 10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine
      4-yl, 10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-yl), and the like.
              Heterocyclylalkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a
 10   hydrogen or carbon bond of an alkyl group as defined above is replaced with a
      bond to a heterocyclyl group as defined above. Representative heterocyclyl alkyl
      groups include, but are not limited to, furan-2-yl methyl, furan-3-yl methyl,
      pyridine-3-yl methyl, tetrahydrofuran-2-yl ethyl, and indol-2-yl propyl.
              Heteroarylalkyl groups are alkyl groups as defined above in which a
 15   hydrogen or carbon bond of an alkyl group is replaced with a bond to a heteroaryl
      group as defined above.
              The term "alkoxy" refers to an oxygen atom connected to an alkyl group,
      including a cycloalkyl group, as are defined above. Examples of linear alkoxy
      groups include but are not limited to methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, pentyloxy,
 20   hexyloxy, and the like. Examples of branched alkoxy include but are not limited to
      isopropoxy, sec-butoxy, tert-butoxy, isopentyloxy, isohexyloxy, and the like.
      Examples of cyclic alkoxy include but are not limited to cyclopropyloxy,
      cyclobutyloxy, cyclopentyloxy, cyclohexyloxy, and the like. An alkoxy group can
      include one to about 12-20 carbon atoms bonded to the oxygen atom, and can
 25   further include double or triple bonds, and can also include heteroatoms. For
      example, an allyloxy group is an alkoxy group within the meaning herein. A
      methoxyethoxy group is also an alkoxy group within the meaning herein, as is a
      methylenedioxy group in a context where two adjacent atoms of a structures are
      substituted therewith.
 30           The terms "halo" or "halogen" or "halide" by themselves or as part of
      another substituent mean, unless otherwise stated, a fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or
      iodine atom, preferably, fluorine, chlorine, or bromine.
              A "haloalkyl" group includes mono-halo alkyl groups, poly-halo alkyl
      groups wherein all halo atoms can be the same or different, and per-halo alkyl
                                                21

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      groups, wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by halogen atoms, such as fluoro.
      Examples of haloalkyl include trifluoromethyl, 1,1 -dichloroethyl, 1,2
      dichloroethyl, 1,3-dibromo-3,3-difluoropropyl, perfluorobutyl, and the like.
               A "haloalkoxy" group includes mono-halo alkoxy groups, poly-halo alkoxy
  5   groups wherein all halo atoms can be the same or different, and per-halo alkoxy
      groups, wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by halogen atoms, such as fluoro.
      Examples of haloalkoxy include trifluoromethoxy, 1,1 -dichloroethoxy, 1,2
      dichloroethoxy, 1,3-dibromo-3,3-difluoropropoxy, perfluorobutoxy, and the like.
               The term "(Cx-Cy)perfluoroalkyl," wherein x < y, means an alkyl group
 10   with a minimum of x carbon atoms and a maximum of y carbon atoms, wherein all
      hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms. Preferred is
      -(CI-C 6 )perfluoroalkyl, more preferred is -(CI-C 3 )perfluoroalkyl, most preferred is
      -CF 3 .
               The term "(Cx-Cy)perfluoroalkylene," wherein x < y, means an alkyl group
 15   with a minimum of x carbon atoms and a maximum of y carbon atoms, wherein all
      hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms. Preferred is
      -(CI-C 6 )perfluoroalkylene, more preferred is -(C 1 -C 3)perfluoroalkylene, most
      preferred is -CF 2--.
               The terms "aryloxy" and "arylalkoxy" refer to, respectively, an aryl group
 20   bonded to an oxygen atom and an aralkyl group bonded to the oxygen atom at the
      alkyl moiety. Examples include but are not limited to phenoxy, naphthyloxy, and
      benzyloxy.
               An "acyl" group as the term is used herein refers to a group containing a
      carbonyl moiety wherein the group is bonded via the carbonyl carbon atom. The
 25   carbonyl carbon atom is also bonded to another carbon atom, which can be part of
      an alkyl, aryl, aralkyl cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl,
      heteroaryl, heteroarylalkyl group or the like. In the special case wherein the
      carbonyl carbon atom is bonded to a hydrogen, the group is a "formyl" group, an
      acyl group as the term is defined herein. An acyl group can include 0 to about 12
 30   20 additional carbon atoms bonded to the carbonyl group. An acyl group can
      include double or triple bonds within the meaning herein. An acryloyl group is an
      example of an acyl group. An acyl group can also include heteroatoms within the
      meaning here. A nicotinoyl group (pyridyl-3-carbonyl) group is an example of an
      acyl group within the meaning herein. Other examples include acetyl, benzoyl,
                                                 22

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      phenylacetyl, pyridylacetyl, cinnamoyl, and acryloyl groups and the like. When
      the group containing the carbon atom that is bonded to the carbonyl carbon atom
      contains a halogen, the group is termed a "haloacyl" group. An example is a
      trifluoroacetyl group.
  5            The term "amine" includes primary, secondary, and tertiary amines having,
      e.g., the formula N(group) 3 wherein each group can independently be H or non-H,
      such as alkyl, aryl, and the like. Amines include but are not limited to R-NH 2 , for
      example, alkylamines, arylamines, alkylarylamines; R 2 NH wherein each R is
      independently selected, such as dialkylamines, diarylamines, aralkylamines,
 10   heterocyclylamines and the like; and R 3 N wherein each R is independently
      selected, such as trialkylamines, dialkylarylamines, alkyldiarylamines,
      triarylamines, and the like. The term "amine" also includes ammonium ions as
      used herein.
               An "amino" group is a substituent of the form -NH 2 , -NHR, -NR 2 , -NR 3 +,
 15   wherein each R is independently selected, and protonated forms of each, except for
      -NR 3 *, which cannot be protonated. Accordingly, any compound substituted with
      an amino group can be viewed as an amine. An "amino group" within the meaning
      herein can be a primary, secondary, tertiary or quaternary amino group. An
       'alkylamino " group includes a monoalkylamino, dialkylamino, and trialkylamino
 20   group.
               An "ammonium" ion includes the unsubstituted ammonium ion N4*, but
      unless otherwise specified, it also includes any protonated or quaternarized forms
      of amines. Thus, trimethylammonium hydrochloride and tetramethylammonium
      chloride are both ammonium ions, and amines, within the meaning herein.
 25            The term "amide" (or "amido") includes C- and N-amide groups, i.e.,
      -C(O)NR 2 , and -NRC(O)R groups, respectively. Amide groups therefore include
      but are not limited to primary carboxamide groups (-C(O)NH 2 ) and formamide
      groups (-NHC(O)H). A "carboxamido" group is a group of the formula C(O)NR 2,
      wherein R can be H, alkyl, aryl, etc.
 30            The term "azido" refers to an N 3 group. An "azide" can be an organic azide
      or can be a salt of the azide (N3-) anion. The term "nitro" refers to an NO 2 group
      bonded to an organic moiety. The term "nitroso" refers to an NO group bonded to
      an organic moiety. The term nitrate refers to an ON0   2 group bonded to an organic
      moiety or to a salt of the nitrate (NO3) anion.
                                                 23

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
              The term "urethane" ("carbamoyl" or "carbamyl") includes N- and 0
      urethane groups, i.e., -NRC(O)OR and -OC(O)NR 2 groups, respectively.
              The term "sulfonamide" (or "sulfonamido") includes S- and N-sulfonamide
      groups, i.e., -S0 2 NR 2 and -NRSO 2 R groups, respectively. Sulfonamide groups
  5   therefore include but are not limited to sulfamoyl groups (-S0 2NH 2 ). An
      organosulfur structure represented by the formula -S(O)(NR)-       is understood to
      refer to a sulfoximine, wherein both the oxygen and the nitrogen atoms are bonded
      to the sulfur atom, which is also bonded to two carbon atoms.
              The term "amidine" or "amidino" includes groups of the formula
 10   -C(NR)NR 2. Typically, an amidino group is -C(NH)NH 2.
              The term "guanidine" or "guanidino" includes groups of the formula
      -NRC(NR)NR 2. Typically, a guanidino group is -NHC(NH)NH 2.
              Standard abbreviations for chemical groups such as are well known in the
      art are used; e.g., Me = methyl, Et = ethyl, i-Pr = isopropyl, Bu = butyl, t-Bu = tert
 15   butyl, Ph = phenyl, Bn = benzyl, Ac = acetyl, Bz = benzoyl, Boc = tert
      butoxycarbonyl, and the like.
              A "salt" as is well known in the art includes an organic compound such as a
      carboxylic acid, a sulfonic acid, or an amine, in ionic form, in combination with a
      counterion. For example, acids in their anionic form can form salts with cations
 20   such as metal cations, for example sodium, potassium, and the like; with
      ammonium salts such as NI-I' or the cations of various amines, including
      tetraalkyl ammonium salts such as tetramethylammonium, or other cations such as
      trimethylsulfonium, and the like. A "pharmaceutically acceptable" or
       "pharmacologically acceptable" salt is a salt formed from an ion that has been
 25   approved for human consumption and is generally non-toxic, such as a chloride
      salt or a sodium salt. A "zwitterion" is an internal salt such as can be formed in a
      molecule that has at least two ionizable groups, one forming an anion and the other
      a cation, which serve to balance each other. For example, amino acids such as
      glycine can exist in a zwitterionic form. A "zwitterion" is a salt within the
 30   meaning herein. The compounds of the present invention may take the form of
      salts. The term "salts" embraces addition salts of free acids or free bases which are
      compounds of the invention. Salts can be "pharmaceutically-acceptable salts."
      The term "pharmaceutically-acceptable salt" refers to salts which possess toxicity
      profiles within a range that affords utility in pharmaceutical applications.
                                                 24

WO 2014/028829                                                                  PCT/US2013/055313
              Pharmaceutically unacceptable salts may nonetheless possess properties
      such as high crystallinity, which have utility in the practice of the present
      invention, such as for example utility in process of synthesis, purification or
      formulation of compounds of the invention.
  5           Suitable pharmaceutically-acceptable acid addition salts may be prepared
      from an inorganic acid or from an organic acid. Examples of inorganic acids
      include hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydriodic, nitric, carbonic, sulfuric, and
      phosphoric acids. Appropriate organic acids may be selected from aliphatic,
      cycloaliphatic, aromatic, araliphatic, heterocyclic, carboxylic and sulfonic classes
 10   of organic acids, examples of which include formic, acetic, propionic, succinic,
      glycolic, gluconic, lactic, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, glucuronic, maleic,
      fumaric, pyruvic, aspartic, glutamic, benzoic, anthranilic, 4-hydroxybenzoic,
      phenylacetic, mandelic, embonic (pamoic), methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic,
      benzenesulfonic, pantothenic, trifluoromethanesulfonic, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic,
 15   p-toluenesulfonic, sulfanilic, cyclohexylaminosulfonic, stearic, alginic,
       P-hydroxybutyric, salicylic, galactaric and galacturonic acid. Examples of
      pharmaceutically unacceptable acid addition salts include, for example,
      perchlorates and tetrafluoroborates.
              Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts of compounds of
 20   the invention include, for example, metallic salts including alkali metal, alkaline
      earth metal and transition metal salts such as, for example, calcium, magnesium,
      potassium, sodium and zinc salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts
      also include organic salts made from basic amines such as, for example,
      N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine,
 25   ethylenediamine, meglumine (N-methylglucamine) and procaine. Examples of
      pharmaceutically unacceptable base addition salts include lithium salts and cyanate
      salts. Although pharmaceutically unacceptable salts are not generally useful as
      medicaments, such salts may be useful, for example as intermediates in the
      synthesis of Formula (I) compounds, for example in their purification by
 30   recrystallization. All of these salts may be prepared by conventional means from
      the corresponding compound according to Formula (I) by reacting, for example,
      the appropriate acid or base with the compound according to Formula (I). The
      term "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" refers to nontoxic inorganic or organic
                                                   25

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      acid and/or base addition salts, see, for example, Lit et al., Salt Selection for Basic
      Drugs (1986), Int J. Pharm., 33, 201-217, incorporated by reference herein.
               A "hydrate" is a compound that exists in a composition with water
      molecules. The composition can include water in stoichiometric quantities, such as
  5   a monohydrate or a dihydrate, or can include water in random amounts.         As the
      term is used herein a "hydrate" refers to a solid form, i.e., a compound in water
      solution, while it may be hydrated, is not a hydrate as the term is used herein.
               A "solvate" is a similar composition except that a solvent other that water
      replaces the water. For example, methanol or ethanol can form an "alcoholate",
 10   which can again be stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric. As the term is used
      herein a "solvate" refers to a solid form, i.e., a compound in solution in a solvent,
      while it may be solvated, is not a solvate as the term is used herein.
               A "prodrug" as is well known in the art is a substance that can be
      administered to a patient where the substance is converted in vivo by the action of
 15   biochemicals within the patients body, such as enzymes, to the active
      pharmaceutical ingredient. Examples of prodrugs include esters of carboxylic acid
      groups, which can be hydrolyzed by endogenous esterases as are found in the
      bloodstream of humans and other mammals. Conventional procedures for the
      selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are described, for
 20   example, in "Design of Prodrugs", ed. H. Bundgaard, Elsevier, 1985.
               In addition, where features or aspects of the invention are described in
      terms of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention
      is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of
      members of the Markush group. For example, if X is described as selected from
 25   the group consisting of bromine, chlorine, and iodine, claims for X being bromine
      and claims for X being bromine and chlorine are fully described. Moreover, where
      features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups,
      those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in
      terms of any combination of individual members or subgroups of members of
 30   Markush groups. Thus, for example, if X is described as selected from the group
      consisting of bromine, chlorine, and iodine, and Y is described as selected from the
      group consisting of methyl, ethyl, and propyl, claims for X being bromine and Y
      being methyl are fully described.
                                                 26

WO 2014/028829                                                                   PCT/US2013/055313
               If a value of a variable that is necessarily an integer, e.g., the number of
      carbon atoms in an alkyl group or the number of substituents on a ring, is described
      as a range, e.g., 0-4, what is meant is that the value can be any integer between 0
      and 4 inclusive, i.e., 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4.
  5            In various embodiments, the compound or set of compounds, such as are
      used in the inventive methods, can be any one of any of the combinations and/or
      sub-combinations of the above-listed embodiments.
               In various embodiments, a compound as shown in any of the Examples, or
      among the exemplary compounds, is provided.              Provisos may apply to any of
 10   the disclosed categories or embodiments wherein any one or more of the other
      above disclosed embodiments or species may be excluded from such categories or
      embodiments.
               The present invention further embraces isolated compounds of the
      invention. The expression "isolated compound" refers to a preparation of a
 15   compound of the invention, or a mixture of compounds the invention, wherein the
      isolated compound has been separated from the reagents used, and/or byproducts
      formed, in the synthesis of the compound or compounds. "Isolated" does not mean
      that the preparation is technically pure (homogeneous), but it is sufficiently pure to
      compound in a form in which it can be used therapeutically. Preferably an
 20   "isolated compound" refers to a preparation of a compound of the invention or a
      mixture of compounds of the invention, which contains the named compound or
      mixture of compounds of the invention in an amount of at least 10 percent by
      weight of the total weight. Preferably the preparation contains the named
      compound or mixture of compounds in an amount of at least 50 percent by weight
 25   of the total weight; more preferably at least 80 percent by weight of the total
      weight; and most preferably at least 90 percent, at least 95 percent or at least 98
      percent by weight of the total weight of the preparation.
               The compounds of the invention and intermediates may be isolated from
      their reaction mixtures and purified by standard techniques such as filtration,
 30   liquid-liquid extraction, solid phase extraction, distillation, recrystallization or
      chromatography, including flash column chromatography, or HPLC.
      Isomerism and Tautomerism in Compounds of the Invention
       Tautomerism
                                                   27

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
               Within the present invention it is to be understood that a compound of the
      formula (I) or a salt thereof may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism whereby
      two chemical compounds that are capable of facile interconversion by exchanging
      a hydrogen atom between two atoms, to either of which it forms a covalent bond.
  5   Since the tautomeric compounds exist in mobile equilibrium with each other they
      may be regarded as different isomeric forms of the same compound. It is to be
      understood that the formulae drawings within this specification can represent only
      one of the possible tautomeric forms. However, it is also to be understood that the
      invention encompasses any tautomeric form, and is not to be limited merely to any
 10   one tautomeric form utilized within the formulae drawings. The formulae
      drawings within this specification can represent only one of the possible tautomeric
      forms and it is to be understood that the specification encompasses all possible
      tautomeric forms of the compounds drawn not just those forms which it has been
      convenient to show graphically herein. For example, tautomerism may be
 15   exhibited by a pyrazolyl group bonded as indicated by the wavy line. While both
      substituents would be termed a 4-pyrazolyl group, it is evident that a different
      nitrogen atom bears the hydrogen atom in each structure.
         N                    HN
               Such tautomerism can also occur with substituted pyrazoles such as 3
 20   methyl, 5-methyl, or 3,5-dimethylpyrazoles, and the like. Another example of
      tautomerism is amido-imido (lactam-lactim when cyclic) tautomerism, such as is
      seen in heterocyclic compounds bearing a ring oxygen atom adjacent to a ring
      nitrogen atom. For example, the equilibrium:
             0                     OH
             N                     N         is an example of tautomerism. Accordingly, a
 25   structure depicted herein as one tautomer is intended to also include the other
      tautomer.
       OpticalIsomerism
               It will be understood that when compounds of the present invention contain
      one or more chiral centers, the compounds may exist in, and may be isolated as
 30   pure enantiomeric or diastereomeric forms or as racemic mixtures. The present
                                                 28

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      invention therefore includes any possible enantiomers, diastereomers, racemates or
      mixtures thereof of the compounds of the invention.
              The isomers resulting from the presence of a chiral center comprise a pair
      of non-superimposable isomers that are called "enantiomers."     Single enantiomers
  5   of a pure compound are optically active, i.e., they are capable of rotating the plane
      of plane polarized light. Single enantiomers are designated according to the
       Cahn-Ingold-Prelogsystem. The priority of substituents is ranked based on
      atomic weights, a higher atomic weight, as determined by the systematic
      procedure, having a higher priority ranking. Once the priority ranking of the four
 10   groups is determined, the molecule is oriented so that the lowest ranking group is
      pointed away from the viewer. Then, if the descending rank order of the other
      groups proceeds clockwise, the molecule is designated (R) and if the descending
      rank of the other groups proceeds counterclockwise, the molecule is designated (S).
      In the example in Scheme 14, the Cahn-Ingold-Prelogranking is A > B > C > D.
 15   The lowest ranking atom, D is oriented away from the viewer.
           A                             A
            C    D                   B        D
           C_ B                      B)     C
      (R) configuration             (S) configuration
              The present invention is meant to encompass diastereomers as well as their
      racemic and resolved, diastereomerically and enantiomerically pure forms and salts
 20   thereof. Diastereomeric pairs may be resolved by known separation techniques
      including normal and reverse phase chromatography, and crystallization. A
      racemic mixture, or a racemate, is a mixture of two enantiomers.
              "Isolated optical isomer" means a compound which has been substantially
      purified from the corresponding optical isomer(s) of the same formula. Preferably,
 25   the isolated isomer is at least about 80%, more preferably at least 90% pure, even
      more preferably at least 98% pure, most preferably at least about 99% pure, by
      weight.
              Isolated optical isomers may be purified from racemic mixtures by
      well-known chiral separation techniques. According to one such method, a
 30   racemic mixture of a compound of the invention, or a chiral intermediate thereof, is
      separated into 99% wt.% pure optical isomers by HPLC using a suitable chiral
      column, such as a member of the series of DAICEL CHIRALPAK family of
                                                 29

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      columns (Daicel Chemical Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan). The column is operated
      according to the manufacturer's instructions.
       Cis-transIsomerism
               Compounds comprising double bonds and having non-identical substituents
  5   at each end of the double bond can exhibit cis-trans, or Z/E, isomerism. Cis-trans
      isomerism is present when at each terminus of the double bond there is one
      hydrogen and one non-hydrogen substituent. Thus, a comopound of formula A
      CH=CH-B can exist in two isomeric forms,
                                    H    H                        A    H
                            cis     A    B         or,     trans: H    B.
 10   In cases where the four substituents are more complex, this type of isomerism is
      termed Z/E isomerism. The groups are assigned priority as in the case of optical
      isomerism, discussed above, and when the two highest priority groups are cis to
      each other, the double bond is termed a Z double bond; when the two highest
      priority groups are trans to each other, the double bond is termed an E double
 15   bond.
               Cis and trans isomerism can also be present in ring systems, where free
      rotation cannot occur. For example, when both compounds are on the same "side"
      of the ring, the groups are said to be cis to each other, and when they are on
      opposite sides, they are said to be trans to each other. For example, 1,4
 20   dimethylcyclohexane can exist in cis and trans forms:
      cis:            ; when the cyclohexane is depicted the chair conformer,
      trans:        ; when the cyclohexane is depicted the chair conformer,
               In certain of the compounds herein, having rings capable of forming cis and
      trans isomers, compounds are described as cis or trans; these designations refer to
 25   ring cis and trans isomerism. When such compounds are optically active, i.e.,
      possess chiral centers, cis compounds can be racemates, and are termed cis
      racemates; or alternatively trans compounds can be racemates, and are termed
      trans-racemates.
                                                  30

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      RotationalIsomerism
                It is understood that due to chemical properties (i.e., resonance lending
      some double bond character to the C-N bond) of restricted rotation about the amide
      bond linkage (as illustrated below) it is possible to observe separate rotamer
  5   species and even, under some circumstances, to isolate such species (see below). It
      is further understood that certain structural elements, including steric bulk or
      substituents on the amide nitrogen, may enhance the stability of a rotamer to the
      extent that a compound may be isolated as, and exist indefinitely, as a single stable
      rotamer. The present invention therefore includes any possible stable rotamers of
 10   formula (I) which are biologically active in the treatment of cancer or other
      proliferative disease states.
       O             A     hindered rotation  O          B
                     B                                   A
      Regioisomerism
                The preferred compounds of the present invention have a particular spatial
 15   arrangement of substituents on the aromatic rings, which is related to the structure
      activity relationship demonstrated by the compound class. Often such substitution
      arrangement is denoted by a numbering system; however, numbering systems are
      often not consistent between different ring systems. In six-membered aromatic
      systems, the spatial arrangements are specified by the common nomenclature
 20   "para" for 1,4-substitution, "meta" for 1,3-substitution and "ortho" for
       1,2-substitution as shown below.
           P
                       M              M
                                          0
                                                       0
        "para-"             "meta-"           "ortho-"
      Description
       Compounds of the Invention
 25             In various embodiments, the invention is directed to a compound of
      formula (I)
                                                    31

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
                                     Y
                            x               zR
                                            z
                                     A
                                                                  2
                           W         N              yc              )m
                                                                       (I)
      wherein
               the ring designated A can further comprise an additional nitrogen atom in
      any position that bears any of W, X, Y, or Z, provided that the respective group W,
  5   X, Y, or Z is absent from that position;
               W is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (Cl-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
               X is H, halo, nitro, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C1-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl,
      (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, NRaRb, N(Ra)C(=O)(C 1-C6)alkyl, CO 2 R, or heteroaryl;
 10            Y is H, halo, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
               Z is halo, hydroxy, CO 2 R, C(=O)NR 2, CN, heteroaryl(Co-C 6 )alkyl,
      hydroxy(C 1-C6)alkyl, HC(=O), HC(=O), (Cl -C6)C(=0), or CR(=NOR);
               wherein each independently selected R is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, (C6-C1O)aryl, or (C6-C10)aryl(C1-C6)alkyl;
 15            or, any adjacent pair of W, X, and Y, can together with the atoms to which
      they are bonded form a fused cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, or aryl, or heteroaryl, any of
      which can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NR aR , N(Ra)C(=O)(C1-C6)alkyl, , CO 2 R, or
      heteroaryl;
 20            wherein any alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl of W, X, Y, or Z, can be
      unsubstituted or can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (Cl
      C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NRa R , N(Ra)C(=O)(C1-C6)alkyl, CO 2R,
      or heteroaryl;
               the ring system Cyc, comprising the nitrogen atom, comprises a mono-, bi-,
 25   or tri-cyclic heterocyclyl bonded to ring A via the nitrogen atom, wherein Cyc
      comprises a 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 membered ring, optionally bridged with one or two
      bridges independently comprising 0, 1, or 2 carbon atoms, the ring system Cyc
      optionally containing 1 or 2 additional heteroatoms selected from NR, 0, or S(O)q
                                                 32

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
                                                     1                                 2
      wherein q = 0, 1, or 2; wherein R , and optionally, m independently selected R2
      are bonded to the ring system Cyc, m = 0, 1, or 2;
               R1 is (CH 2)nNRaR , wherein Ra and Rb are each independently H, alkyl,
      cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, wherein any alkyl,
  5   cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, is substituted with
      0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently selected J, and wherein any heterocyclyl or cycloalkyl
      is mono-, bi-, or tri-cyclic; or Ra and Rb together with the nitrogen atom to which
      they are bonded form a heterocyclyl ring substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4
      independently selected J, wherein n = 0, 1, or 2;
 10            or R is (CH 2 )p1NRa(CH 2)p2 bonded to two carbon atoms of Cyc to form a
      5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocyclyl substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently
      selected J, pl and p2 are independently 0, 1, or 2, provided that pl + p2 is no less
      than 2;
               R 2 is (Cl-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, OR, CO 2 R, or halo, wherein m
 15   0, 1, or 2;
               J is independently at each occurrence OR, (Cl-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(C1
      C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, CO 2R, or halo;
               or any pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
               In various embodiments, the ring designated A can be pyridyl, pyridazinyl,
 20   pyrimidyl, or pyrazinyl, or can be fused to provide a quinolyl, tetrahydroquinolyl,
      quinoxalinyl, or 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[b]pyridinyl, any of which can be
      substituted or unsubstituted.
               In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, W can be H or
      methyl.
 25            In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, X can be H,
      methyl, ethyl, cyclopropyl, bromo, chloro, fluoro, iodo, trifluoromethyl, nitro,
      amino, acetamido, butyramido, methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, or oxadiazolyl
      (substituted or unsubstituted).
               In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, Y can be H or
 30   chloro.
               In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, Z can be
      methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, hydroxymethyl, formyl, acetyl, 0
      methylformaldoxime (cis or trans), 0-ethylformaldoxime (cis or trans),
      oxadiazolyl (substituted (alkyl, cycloalkyl) or unsubstituted), pyridazinyl
                                                  33

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      (substituted (alkyl) or unsubstituted), or pyrimidinyl (substituted (alkyl) or
      unsubstituted).
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, ring system Cyc is
      any one of
       5N
                                             N             No
      wherein R 1 and, optionally, (R2)m, are bonded thereto at any position, and wherein
      a wavy line indicates a point of bonding.
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, R 1 is
      (CH 2)nNRa R and n is 0 or 1; Ra is ethyl, 2-pentyl, 4-methyl-2-pentyl, cyclopropyl,
 10   cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, bicyclo[2.2.1]heptyl,
      bicyclo[2.2.2]octyl, bornyl, adamantyl, or tetrahydropyranyl, any of which is
      substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 J, and R is H.
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, R 1 is
      (CH 2 )nNRa R and n is 0 or 1; and Ra and Rb together with the nitrogen atom to
 15   which they are bonded form a pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, azepinyl morpholinyl, or
      thiomorpholinyl ring, any of which is substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 J.
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, any R2 is
      independently selected OR, F, Cl, Br, methyl, hydroxymethyl, ethyl, or
      hydroxyethyl.
 20           In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, R2 is not present.
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, ring system Cyc
      and R1 together form a group of formula
                                                       N R
      wherein Ra is as defined in herein and a wavy line indicates a point of bonding, and
 25   wherein Cyc is optionally substituted with additional R 2 groups.
              In various embodiments of a compound of the invention, the compound is
      any of those shown in Table 1, below. A cutoff of IC 5 0 >10gM was chosen to
      differentiate compounds with potential as medicinal compounds for treatment of
      conditions in patients wherein inhibition of the kappa opioid receptor are medically
                                                 34

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      indicated from comparative compounds that are largely inactive in this assay, and
      thus are not expected to be suitable candidates for development of medicinal
      molecular entities. In Table 1, compounds disclosed and claimed herein are
      provided with an indexing number, and inactive compounds are designated as
  5   "C#" for purposes of identification.
              The methods of determining the IC 5 0 values of the compounds are provided
      below.
              As is well known in the art, identification of a compound that performs
      well in an enzyme assay is only a first step in developing a medicinal molecular
 10   entity. For example, the candidate compound must meet standards for absorption,
      distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) in the mammalian
      body. The inventors herein do not assert that each and every compound disclosed
      and claimed is a medicinal molecular entity, but that it is a candidate identified for
      further study in the development of a medicinal molecular entity.
 15   Table I: Compounds of the Invention
      Me = methyl, Et = ethyl, Boc = t-butoxycarbonyl, Ph = phenyl, iPr = isopropyl,
      straight or wavy line = either stereochemical option unless otherwise specified,
      bold line or solid wedge = bond "up", hashed line or hashed wedge = bond
      "down",
 20
       Cpd. #           Structure                                    IC50 nM
                                                                     (% inhib if other
                                                                     than 50%)
       1                 Br          CO 2 Me                         231
                                            HO
                                             H
      2                      CI                                      4500(65%)
                                  CO 2Et
                               I         HO
                             N    N
                                           H
                                                35

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      3        Br       CO 2Me          287
                   N    N
                                 NH
                          HO
      6        Br      COOMe            9200 (80%)
                   N   N
                               H
      7        Br      COOMe            133
                     N     NN
                   N   N       HO
                                H
      8         Br      CO 2 Et         NA
                                 H
                   N    N
      c2       Br       CO 2 Me    1    NA
                   N    N
                                 NHBoc
      C5               0NA
               Br         OMe
                   N
                        N
      C6                                NA
               Br
                          OMe
                   N
                        N
                                N
                                H
                                     36

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
       10                                 652
               Br-            OMe      OH
                       N
                           N
                                   N
                                   H
       11                  OMe       H    2800
                              N      N
               Br         N
      C7                    0             NA
               Br              OMe
                       N    N      N
                                   H
      C8                                  NA
               Br
                              OMe
                       N
                            NaN
                                       N,
      C9       Br         C2Me            NA
                         aHO
                         HN
       12      Br                         765
                       /\CO2Me
                         QNHQ 1
                             HN
      C1O          Ph                     NA
               O-     Na      NH
                                 lOH
                                      37

WO 2014/028829                                   PCT/US2013/055313
      C1l                                   NA
               C      "'    CN
                         N
                                HO
                             HNJ9
       13      Br          CO2 Me           621
                    N
                           N
                                   N
                                   H
       14      Br          CO 2 Me          185
                    N      N        N'    0
                                    H
       15      Br          CO 2Me           7700
                    N      Na       N'
                                    H
       16                 0                 536
               Br
                             OMe
                    N
                          NN
                                  H
       17                 0                 6800
               Br
                             OMe
                    N     N
                                  H
      C12      ciNA
                    N    N
                                 H
       18                 0                 2100
               Br ~          OMe
                       NN
                                       38
                                       38

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
       19                              2700
               Br
                           OMe
                     N   N       N
      20       Br        COOMe         110
                     N
                         N
                                 N
                                 H
      21       Br       COOMe          317
                     N
                         N
                                 N
                                 H
      22       Br       COOMe          10000
                     N   N
                                 H
      23       Br    N   COOMe N~I
                         N             854
                     N   N        N
                                 N6
                                 H
      24       Br        COOMe         120
                     N   NaN2
                                  H
      25        Br    COOEt            1200
                  N   N
                              NC
                              H
      26        Br..    C   2 Me       267
                                 H
      27                               473
               Br    N      OMe
                     N   N
                                 N
                                 H
                                    39

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
                       0              387
      28       Br         OMe
                  N     N
                              H
      C13      Ph      CO2 Me         NA
                  N
                       N      N
                              H
      C14      Br      CO 2Me         NA
                  N    N      N
      C15               CO2Me         NA
                   N    N      N
                               H
      C16      Br       CO2Me         NA
                  N     N         NH
                                  NH2
      31       Br      CO2Me          3500
                  N    N
      32                   0          5300
                     N
                           N
                                 H
      C17                0            NA
                    N
                          N
                                N
                                H
      33               0              16
               Br         O
                  N NNQOH
                       NCC
                              H
                                   40

WO 2014/028829                                     PCT/US2013/055313
      34                 0                   5200
               Br            OH
                                             (85%)
                     N
                         N
                                   N
                                   H
      35                0                    88
                           0
                   N
                        N
                             L N'N
                                 H
      36       I        COOMe                79
                   N    N
                                 H
      37       I        CO2Me                142
                  N N~~ N,      HO
                                 H
      38       Br         CO2Et              128
                     NN
                                    H
      39       Br          C0 2iPr           398
                     N     N
      C18      Br       NNCONEt 2            NA
                                    H
                     N    N
      C19      Br       NN        2   4CONMe NA
                                   H
                     N    N
                                      41

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
      40       C1 ,      CO2 Me        159
                     N   N
                                 H
      41       B-N                     331
               Br          N
                     N
                         N
                                 H
      42         I  NCO2Me             18
                                H
                    N   CN
      43        c        CO2Me         52
                                 H
                     N   ZN       O
      44        Br       CO 2Me        79
                                H
      45        Br   N    N~ 2 MeNO
                          CO           164
                     N NQOH
                                  H
      46       1          0M           25
                    NN         OH
                                H
      47               N               2800
               Br           O     H
                       I-        H
                     N   NaO<
                                    42

WO 2014/028829                                  PCT/US2013/055313
      48                                   459
               Br            O
                                      H
                      N    N        NH
                               OH
      49       Br         CO 2 Me          1300
                      N    NZ     N
                       NNN
      50
      51       Br . n-:CO
                        XCO2Me2Me          3000
                                           1000
                         N~O~N
      52        Br         CO 2 Me         3400
                       N       N
                                   H
      53               CO 2 Me             5600
                  NINC(OHy
                     N    N
      54        &,COMe                     559
                              H   0
                     NN          Q
                             H     osI.
                                        43

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
      55       &pXCOMe                  1800
                 N N     c H
                          H
      56        .   CO 2Me              7000
                 N             O
                            H
      57            CO 2 Me             2200
                 N  NQ     O
                            H
      58       Br       CO 2 Me         419
                   N    NH
                                Hy
      59       Br       CO 2 Me         36
                   N         N
                                H   o
      60       Br       CO 2 Me         68
                   N         OH
                               H
      61       Br        CO 2 Me        54
                   n
                   N                  O
                                 H
      62       Br       CO 2 Me         2700
                   N     NQOH
                          OH H
                                   44

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
      63       Br n-NXCO2Me             234
                               H
      64       Br      CO 2 Me          901
                      N~}Q
                               H
      C20      Br      CO 2Me           NA
                    N
                       NH
                                 N
                                 H
      C21      Br      CO 2 Me          NA
                    N  N      CO 2 e
                              NH
      65       Br       CO 2 Me         2300
                    N
                        N
                               H
      66       Br      CO2Me            1700
                    N  NQ NO
                              H
      C22      Br nN   CO 2 Me          NA
                    NN&              OH
                                  45

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
      67       Br          CO2Me         1400
                      N     N    N2
                                 H
      C23      Br         CO 2 Me        NA
                      N   N~           1
      C24          {CO         2Me       NA
               F3C    N     ZNN
                                   H
      C25      Br        CF 3            NA
                     N   ZN&O
                                 H
      68       Br       CO2 Me           40
                     N   N         O
                              OH
                    trans-rac
      69       Br       CO2 Et           53
                     N   N       +
                              OH
                    trans-rac
      C26        CF 3                    NA
                      CO 2 Et
                 N    N       N '
                              H
                                     46

WO 2014/028829                                  PCT/US2013/055313
      70         Cl       CO 2Me          110
                       N   N      +
                               OH
                      trans-rac
      71         CI nr    CO2Et           93
                       N   N      +
                               OH
                      trans-rac
      72        Fn        CO 2 Me         6600
                      N
                                  NO
                                  H
      73        Br         CO2 Me         205
                       N   N
                                   N
                                   H
               trans-rac
      C27       Br   ""    CO2Me          21000
                         NI'
                       N N          N'1II
                                    H
      74         Br         CO 2 Me       58
                        N   N
                                 OH
                     trans-rac
                                      47

WO 2014/028829                                  PCT/US2013/055313
      75        I        CO2Me            36
                     N    N        +
                               OH
                  trans-rac
                    0                     NA
      C28      H 2N            CO 2 Et
                         N
                               N
                                       N
                                       H
      76       Br             OH          11300
                      N
                           N'N
                                   H
      77        I        CO 2Me           11
                    N    N
                                    O
                              OH
                    trans-rac
      78       Br          CO2 Me         1200
                      N
                      nNN  NN
                                   H
      79        Br         CO 2 Me        25
                       N   N
                                       O
                                OH
                    trans-rac
                                       48

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
       80      Br       CO 2 Me       87
                     N  N
                             OH
                     trans-rac
       81       Br%,    CO2Me         126
                     N   N      NO
                             OH
                     trans-rac
       82       Br       CO 2 Me      127
                      N  N      NJQ
                             Y-14eO
                             OH
                     trans-rac
       83      Br        CO 2 Me      5900
                              4  NH2
                            OH
       84      0 2N       CO2Me       6200
                      N   N      N
                                 H
       85      H2 N      CO2Me        1800
                      NaNNNN
                                 H
      C29      Br       CO2H          NA
                     NaNN
                        NN
                                H
                                   49

WO 2014/028829                                       PCT/US2013/055313
       86            H                         628
                     N         CO 2 Me
                          N    N
                                         H
      C30             H                        NA
                      8     BCOMe
                           N    N
                                           N'0
                                          H
       87      Br           CONHMe             19000
                     ""I
                       N
                            N
                                     N
                                     H
      C3 1                                     NA
                        u0
               Br
                              O
                       NN
                                     H
      C32                                      NA
                           0
               Br     N    N
                     NI
                       N    Na
                                       '
                                    H
      88        1 X.     C2Me                  52
                                 OH
                  trans-rac
                                          50

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
       89      I       CO 2 Me       116
                   N   N
                            OH
                   trans-rac
      90       I       CO 2 Me       186
                   N   N       NO
                            OH
                   trans-rac
               I       Co 2 Me       198
      91N                  N
                            OH
                   trans-rac
      92           0        O        2600
                 0            0l,
                                  H
      93                             621
                           HO
                     trans-rac
                                  51

WO 2014/028829                                   PCT/US2013/055313
      94           0        0              61
                        N    NG
                               OH H
      C33                H        0        NA
                N        N          &0
                              N    NN
                                         H
      95               H        0          1.4
                       N0
                           N    N#0
                                       H
      C34         -                        NA
               0Q       N
                              N
                                  NNN
                                         H
      C35            H                     17000
               HN     N          0
                       0   N
                                 N~
                                NN
                                       H
      C36          O                       17000
                             NO 2
                        NN           N
                                     H
                                   52

WO 2014/028829                                    PCT/US2013/055313
      C37             H        0               NA
                       0O
                         N&N0
                           N     NN
                                         H
      C38           O                          NA
                               NH 2
                         N     N
                                       N
                                       H
      C39              0 OK                    NA
                O~             NH
                         N    N
                                       N
                                       H
      C40                  0.                  NA
                   o          S:QO
                              NH
                        N     &
                                      N0
                                      H
      C41                H          O          NA
               H 2N   hr N            0f01
                          0N                 1
                               N    NN
                                           H
      C42                N                     NA
               Br             N
                            0N~
                     NN
                                 N '
                                 H
                                     53

WO 2014/028829                                   PCT/US2013/055313
      C43      MeO2C    n%    Br           15000
                          N
                                     N
                                     H
      C44      MeO 2 C         Br          NA
                           N   NaNO
                                       Boc
      96                                   6700
               Br
                     N    N
                                 N
                                 H
      97                 0                 2000
               Br              OH
                     N   N     N
                               H
                    trans-rac
      98                   O               1100
               0 2 N <U      OMe
                      N    CN
                                  H
      99                  0                4500
               Br
                     N
                             N
                                 H
      C45                O                 NA
               Br
                     N ZN N
                               H
                                    54

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      C46                           NA
               Br            OH
                   NN        N
                             H
                  trans-rac
                        1           292
       100            N0
               Br
                   NN
                             N
                             H
       101                          4000
                      N0
               Br
                   N
                             N
                             H
      C47             O             NA
               Br
                   N  CNO
                             H
       102     MeO2C      Br        13000
                          N       H
                                H
                   trans-rac
       103     Me2C n(.    Br       137
                         NNN
                                  H
                               55

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
       104                             2200
                  0             0
                               HN-Q
      C48                 OMe          NA
               Br            O     OC
                               NN
      C49                 OMe          17000
               Br           O       O
                      NN
                                  H
       105               OMe           56
               Br
                            O
                      N  N~      N J
                            OH H
      C50                OMe           NA
               Br          O
                     NN
                                OQ
                                    OH
       106              OMe            24
                          O
                    N
                               N
                          OH H
                                    56

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
       107             O-N              11000
               Br         N
                    N  NN
                              H
       108            C02Me             404
                              H
       109            CO 2 Me           198
                              H
                    trans-rac
       110            CO2Me             108
                  N   N         H
                              H
      C51      Br       CO 2 Me         >20000
                    NN&oQ
                                     OH
      C52      NC       CO 2 Et         >20000
                  NCYX           OH
                      N N
                                H
                    trans-rac
                                  57

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      C53      NC        CO 2 Et        13000
                     N   N         H
                                 H
      C54      Br        CO2Me          >20000
                     NLN         OH
                                 NH
       111     CI        CO 2 Me        281
                       N     N
                                 H
      C55      MeO 2 C        CN        >20000
                         N    N       N
                                      H
      C56      Me 2C         CN      OH >20000
                             n QN H:N
                                     H
                        trans- rac
      C57      MeO 2 C        CN        >20000
                       -N     N
                                     H
                                  58

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
       112     Br       CO 2 Me        714
                    N   N        H
                               H
                     cis-rac
      C58      Br n-.I.JCO2Me          >20000
                    N    0NH
                             ClNH
       113     Br            CO2Me     2000
                       N     NN
                                  QN
                                CO2 de
                        cis-rac
       114      Br           CO2Me     1200
                    n-N NNQ~&N       N
                                CO2 e
                       cis-rac
       115     Br nNJICO2 Me           1700
                        N N    N
                          COSde
                     cis-rac
                                  59

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
       116                              793
               Br
                             O
                     NNQ~
                        NNO
                             CO2  e
                      trans-rac
       117                              3800
               Br             O
                     NNQ)
                        N     N N3
                             CO 2 e
                    trans-rac
       118               0              661
               Br
                           O
                            CO2 e
                    trans-rac
      C59            O            O     >20000
                              N NN&C
                                  N   N
                                      H
       119        O        O            12
               0              O
                              OH H
                                   60

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
       120               N OMe        16
               Br                OH
                       N      N N
                                 H
                  trans-rac
       121               N OEt        45
               Br    r           OH
                           N4JO
                       N      N N
                                 H
                   trans-rac
       122               0            125
               Br           O
                            0
                  lNy N
                       N~N~
                                 H
                     cis-rac
       123             0              11
                               H
                   cis-rac
       124                 N OMe      31
               Br
                        N      N
                                   H
                                   61

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
       125             N Ot       41
               Br
                    N  N
                             H
       126     1      CO2Me       112
                   NN
                            H
                    cis-rac
       127             0          33
               Br
                    N      N N0
                           H H
       128                        35
                       OMe
                  NY NN
                         H H
       129                        799
               Br
                         H
                  'N   N     N
                         OH  H
                               62

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
       130         MeO N22
               Br
                    N
                                  N
                            OH H
       131          EtO N               30
               Br
                    N     N  l    N '
                              H H
       132     MeO2C           Br       4000
                          N-   NN
                                  OH  H
       133                CO2Me         272
                    NN
                                  H
       134              0               23
               Br          OEt
                   NN~f
                           OH H
      C60             0                 14000
                  NN
                              N
                         OH H
                                   63

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
       135                          1630
               Br        OiPr
                   N   N4     N0
                         OH H
       136             0 -N         49
               Br         N
                   N
                       N
                              N
                         OH H
       137             0 -N         1600
               Br         N
                   N   N::     N
                          OH H
       138             O            3200
               Br
                          NMe 2
                   NN&
                          6H H
       139             O            4800
               Br
                          NEt2
                   NNJ
                         OH H
       140            0 N           54
                         N
                  N   N::     N
                         OH H
                                 64

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
       141         MeO N             107
               Br     l"
                    N     N
                          Z ,   N J
                             OH H
       142         EtO N             125
               Br
                   N
                         N
                                N
                            OH H
       143               0  -N       100
               Br
                        NQ         f
                   N
                              N N3
                            OMeH
                     cis-rac
       144               0           4800
               Br
                    N    N
                        HO
                  trans-rac
      C61                0           10000
               Br
                   N          N NO
                            OMeH
                       cis-rac
                                  65

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
       145                 O-N           117
               Br             N%
                      N     N
                          HO
                     trans-rac
       146                 0             85
               Br             OEt
                      N NQNCN N
                              OMeH
                        cis-rac
       147                 N OMe         206
               Br
                      NN&
                         N     N   N0
                              OH H
       148                               5800
                          OMe
                  N'   N       N
                          OH H
       149             0/                5400
                          0
                  N    N
                                 N
                      HO
                  trans-rac
                                      66

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
       150                0  -N      9100
               Br
                         NN&
                      N   N~    N J
                             OH H
       151                O-N        2100
               BrN
                     N    N
                        HO
                   trans-rac
       152              0  -N        30
                            N
                   N    N
                       HO
                  trans-rac
       153              0            191
                           OEt
                           OH H
       154              O-N          146
                            N
                    N    N      NW
                            6H  H
                                  67

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
      C62             O           NA
                 NN
                             N
                        OH H
      C63             O           NA
                 N    N         O
                     HO
               trans-rac
      C64                         NA
                   N    N
                      HO
               trans-rac
      C65                         NA
                      N
                               N
                           OH H
       155             o  N       1300
                          N
                  N
                       N
                              N
                         OH H
      C66              O          17000
                         OMe
                  N    N      N
                          OH H
                               68

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
       156                0- N       1000
               Et            N
                     N    N~    N  J
                            OH H
       157               0           37
                  OQO'
                       HO
                   trans-rac
       158               O           431
                     NN
                               N
                           OMeH
                     cis-rac
                       O             35
       159                Ot
                 fNN N
                                j
                      HO
                  trans-rac
       160                           209
                            0
                     NN         N
                            OH H
                                  69

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
       161                         157
                         0o
                   N       N N0
                         OH H
       162                         1400
                         0
                   N       NO
                   HO
               trans-rac
       163             0           915
                    N       N NO
                          o H
                   cis-rac
       164             0-N         62
                    :,     N
                 N     N
                    HO
                trans-rac
       165            0-N          19
                         N
                N:N
                              N
                         o    H
                 cis-rac
                                70

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
       166           0            32
                        0
               N  NI
                        OH H
       167            O           19
                        O
               N NI
                      NN
                         OMeH
                     cis-rac
       168            0 -N        7000
                         N
                 N
                      N
                             N
                         OH H
       169                        2500
                         N
                 N    N~     N J
                         OH H
       170            O           11.7
               N N
                      N
                           OH
                 trans-rac
                               71

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
       171                -N         1100
                           N
                    N   N
                                   O
                      HO
                   trans-rac
       172               O-N         22
                            N
                     N   N:     *N J
                            OH H
       173                O-N        1200
               F3 C          N>
                      NN&C
                             OH H
       174                O-N        180
               F 3CN
                             OMeH
                     cis-rac
       175             0-N           46
                          N
                  NN
                       N
                               N'
                         OH H
                                  72

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
      C67      n NXCN                37000
                     N     N NO
                          OH H
      C68                            >20000
                 N     N
                       HO     H
                     HO
                   trans-rac
       176              0 .N         28
                           N
                    N
                         cNj
                           OMeH
                    cis-rac
       177      No                   >20
                  N
                           I
                      NN
                               OH  H
       178            O-N            483
                    IV  N
                 N    N:     N '
                        OMeH
                    trans-rac
                                 73

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
       179           O-N         253
                           %N
                N
                        NO
                       OMeH
                   cis-rac
       180           0  N        7
                        N
               NN    N
                            H
                    HO
                  trans rac
       181           0  N        30
                        N
                       OMeH
                  trans rac
       182           0  N        76
               NN
                N    Nc
                            H
                   HO
                         rac
                              74

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
       183               0 N           280
                    N     N
       184              0  N           19
                           N
                 NN     N
                                H
                       HO
                            rac
       185              ON             24
                           N
                 N N.N
       186                0  -N5
                      N N
                        HO
                      trans-rac
                      N   N
                                   N
       187                O-N          341
               F 3C      HO
                         HO       H
                      trans-rac
                                    75

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
       188             -N       187
                        N
               N
               N    Ne
                        OH   H
       189        O-N           125
               N       N>
               N   N
                              O
                   HO       H
                 HO
               trans-rac
       190         0  -N        57
               N        N.I>
               N
                   N
                            N
                       O H
               cis-rac
       191        0  -N         420
                      N
               Ov   N
                 HO
               trans-rac
       192             -N       199
                        N
               N    N~       N'
                        OH   H
                             76

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
       193             O-N           729
                          QN       C
                  N    N y'   N
                   cis-rac
       194             -N            180
                        N
               N       N
       195                           700
                       N
               N    N     N
                   HO
                  trans-rac
       196          O-N              414
                       N
               N     N    N
                   HO       H    OMe
                 trans-rac
                                77

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
       197       O-N                85
               N LNN9%*
                HO
                 trans-rac
       198          O-N             98
                        N
               N    N       NO
                  HO
                 trans-rac
       199         O'N              59
                       N
                  N      N
                         9N JQ
                           H    OMe
                  HO
               trans-rac
      200          0  -N            14
                        N
               N    N9
                  HO
                    trans-rac
                             78

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
      201          0   -N           116
                        N
               N    N
                               N
                  HO
                 trans-rac
      202               0  -N       187
                 N        N
                        N9
                     HO
                    trans-rac
      203            0  -N          132
                          N
               N     N
                               N9~r
                   HO
                  trans-rac
      204                   -N      52
                             N
                 N            N N
                             F H
                                 79

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
      205              -N         17
                        N
                N
                    N
                             N
                     HO     H
                   HO
                  trans-rac
      206           O-N           33
                        N
                   HO
               trans-rac
      207           O-N           276
                       N
                N   N~      N J
                      OH H
      208            O-N          76
                        N
                 N   N
                                '
                   HO
                     rac
                    O- N          18
      209                 %
                       &N0
                N ND
                            N
                            H
                              80

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
      210           0-N           72
                       N
                NKN
                           N
                       OMeH
                  cis-rac
      211            0-N          74
                 N   N
                             N
                            H
                          OH
                 trans-rac
      212            0 -N         267
               caN
                 N    N      NH
                        ON
      214
                        O      NC
                          OMeH
                cis-rac
                             81

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
      215                  O-N     3
                             N
                               OH
                  trans-rac
      216              CO4500
                   N    N+
                            OH
               trans-rac
      217             N-N
                       N           361
                         OKW
                            OH
                  trans-rac
                    N   N0
      218                      NO  475
                            N
                            H
                            OH H
      C69                          30000
                        QN N
                         OMeH
                       cis-rac
                                82

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      C70                      17000
                     N
               N       N NO
                     OMeH
                   cis-rac
      219              O-N     3.5
                         ZN
                   NN
                            N
                            H
      220          N OMe       101
               N
                      N
                          N
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
      221          0-N         24
                     N
               N ZN N
                          H
      222             0-N      163
                        N
                 NN         N
                       HOH
                            83

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      223           0  -N          13
                   >" N
               N    N
                  HO
               trans-rac
      224           0  -N          17
                         N
               N    N
                             N
                  HO
                trans-rac
      225               0          70
                           N
                  N       ;N   N
                           OMeH
                   cis-rac
      226               O          107
                           N
                      HO
                trans-rac
      227                  0-N     7
                             N
                     NN          N
                             OH  H
                               84

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
      228                  -N         21
                         K1N
                   N
                             NO
                            OMeH
                cis-rac
      229              O-N            5
                           N
                              OH
               trans-rac
      230            0  -N            9
               OQ(       N
                             HO
                               H
                trans-rac
      231              0  -N          0.86
                              HO
                              HNO
                                 H
               trans-rac
      232            0 -N             8
                         N
                 N   N~        N    O
                               H
                                 85

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      233                0-N          2
                    N    NN
                                    O
                                  H
      234             0  -N           596
                          N
      235             O
                             N
                               H
                  N   Na       NH
                           N
               C1           N
                                &N0
      237           N 0 ..-N
                             NN
                          N
                                H
      238                O N38
                              OHH
                                86

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
      239                   O-N          16
               Cl        ,
                                       N
                                    OH
                    trans-rac
      240                   0    -N      14
                           N       N N
                   cis-rac OMeH
      241                  0-N           59
               F            l
                        N N          N
                                  H H
      242                  0-N           26
               F
                      N    N   '     N
                  cis-rac OMeH
      243                 O-N            22
               F              N
                                  OH
                  trans-rac
                                    87

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
      244           N                    566
               YlfY   N
                 N  N~      N J
                      OH H
      245           N                    79
                      N
                 N  N
                        NWO
                   HO
                trans-rac
      246               0  -N            51
                                      OH
                      N      N  Na
                                H
                     trans-rac
      247               O-N              4
                          K     N
                                H
      248               O-N              11
                            N
                                H  OH
                               88

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
      249                  O-N          9
                              N
                         N
                                L~NQ
                                      F
                  cis-racoMeH
      250                  0 .N         8
                              N
                      N    N~     N '
                                  H   F
      251      F         O12
                            N
                    N    N~
                                 N
                            OH H
      252      F         O-N            12
                            N
                      Nl      N NO
                       .OMeH
      253      F         O.N            10
                            N
                    N    N
                                    O
                              OH
                 trans-rac
                                  89

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
      254                 0-N           8
                                     0
                       N C
                                   N
                                   H
      255                 0-N           10
                              N      OH
                                  H
      256                O-N            631
                a ,,lk     ,HO
                                 H
                 trans-rac   N
      257          N     0N~.N          930
                                 NO
                                  H
                          O-N           NA
      C71
                        NN
                                  NHBoc
      258                               7160
                      0
                           N
                 N    N~        N J
                          OMeH
               cis-rac
                                 90

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      259            O               372
                        N
                  N
                         NO
                       OMeH
               cis-rac
      C72              0-N           NA
                              N
                                 H
      260              0  -N         261
                        &1     N
                                H
      261              0 .N          1470
                              N'0
      C73                0-N         NA
                           rN
                                   H
      C74                  -N        NA
                            N
                    NN           N
                                 H
                                91

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
      C75                 -N         NA
                             N
                                H
      262             O-N            60
               91          N
                        I6
      C76        N    O N            NA
                            NN
                        KN%~
                             OH
      C77              0 .N          NA
                    NN             O
                                 H
      C78                   NNA
                         N
                    N0
                   NN
                                H
      C79                            NA
                       OMeH
                cis-rac
                               92

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      C80              .N           NA
                         I>
                        N
                   N          NH
      C81                           NA
                      0
                      N
               NN    UN         O
                            H
      C82            O-N            NA
                          N
                               NH 2
      C83            O-N            47000
                         N
                 NN            N
                              H
      263         N                 1770
                     N
               N  Z N N
                     OMeH
                cis-rac
                             93

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      264           N             56
                       N
                N   N        N
                       CH,&
               trans-rac
      265             0-N         49
                         N
                  NN
                               NJ
                               H
      266              O-N        1740
                          N*
                         &N0
      267            O-N          180
                       ZN
                  N
                        N
                             N C
      C84            O N          NA
                        N
                      IC
                             94

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      268              O-N        37
                          N
                    N      N
                         OMeH
                 cis-rac
      269             O-N         30
                         N
                    N     N
                         CH 2
               trans-rac
      270           0-N           4470
                          N
                  N
                            N
                            H
      271            0-N          419
                        N
                N CN              NO
                              H
      C85           0 -N          NA
               NN' N
                 N H
                            N
                                O
                            H
      C86           O N           NA
                  N         NO
                            H
                            95

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      272           0-N           8700
                        1
                      N
               NNN ZN
                                O
                            H
      273              NN         387
                          O
                  WQQNO
                          OMeH
                   cis-rac
      C87             O-N         NA
                  N
      274             c.N50
                             N
                             H
      C88               N         NA
                          N    H
                 / N           H
      275                -N       98
                          N
                 NN           N
                              H
                              96

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      276               O-N          18
                            N
                  -N     N
                           OMeH
                     cis-rac
      277               0  -N        9
                            N
                    N    N
                  NN
                       HO
                  trans-rac
      278                  O         4725
                              N
                         N    ~NO
                              OMeH
                      cis-rac
                           O         96
      279
                      N        NO
                              OMeH
                       cis-rac
      C89                 HN'        NA
                          N~ N
                                   N
                                  H
               trans-rac        OH
                                  97

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
      280                N         99
                           O
               trans-rac     OH
      281                0         30
                       N~NO
                           OMeH
                      cis-rac
      282               O'N        38
                       N
                              N '
                           OMeH
                     cis-rac
      283                  -N
                            N
                     NN
                                N
                            OMeH
                    cis-rac
      284                O-N       20
                             OH
                  trans-rac
                                98

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
      285                   O-N
                               N
                       N    NN
                                    H
      286               N                 298
                           N
                          &NJC
                    NN          N     O
                                H
      288                 0               15
                              Y-H
               trans-rac       OH
      289                   1             184
                     N    ND
                                 N
                                 H
      290                  ON
                              N
                      NN
                                   N    O
                                   H
      291                0                18
                                 H
               trans-rac      OH
                                  99

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
      292                O-N           33
                     N       N   N3
                           OMeH
                 trans-rac
      293                 O-N          20
                              N
                       N       NO
                              OMeH
                   trans-rac
      294                 O-N          0.7
                       N
                               N     J
                              OMeH
      295                O-N           2
                            N
                          QNN
                       N4    N   NO
                           OMeH
      296                  O-N         10
               F
                         N4     N NO
                              OMeH
      297                  O-N         2
                               N
                              OMeH
                                   100

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      298            O-N           3
               N   N N
                       OMeH
      299           O-N            25
                     N
                 N{N       N
      300                  H-N     16
                     N   N
                 N    QNC
                       OMeH
      301                N-N       38
                         HO
                       HO
                  trans-rac
      302               0          274
                >020
                          Z'O
                              H
      303               0-N        0.5
                           OMeH
                   cis-rac
                               101

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      304            0-N         3.5
                    NN
                              W
                          OH
                 trans-rac
      305            0  -N       17
                  N      N N
                             H
      306            O-N         107
                        ;N
                  N       N  NO
                        OMeH
                cis-rac
      307             O-N        41
                          Y-H
                           OH
                trans-rac
                 N   N
      308           O2.5     NO
                       N
                      OMe H
               cis-rac
                             102

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      309              O-N         0.5
                          N
                   NN
                              N
                         OMeH
                cis-rac
      310                 -N
                             N
                          OMeH
                 cis-rac
      311            0 -N
                        N
                 N   QNo
                       OMeH
               cis-rac
      312              0 -N        0.7
                            N
                         OMeH
                cis-rac
      313                -N        1.5
                            N
                         OMeH
                  cis-rac
                               103

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
                            0
      314                 N           2
                             N
                     N    N
                                    O
                            OMeH
                   cis-rac
      315                o N
                            N
                     N   ZN 'N
                            OMeH
      C90                 0   N       NA
                             N
                     N ND NO
                                 H
      316            O-N              23
                        N
                 N    N       N
                        OMeH
                   cis-rac
      317            O-N              27
               Io,      N
                 N
                     NY
                              N
                        OMeH
                   cis-rac
                                104

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      318          O-N           19
                      N
                N   N y   N '
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
      319          0 -N          21
                      N
                N
                    N>
                        N
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
      320          O-N           170
                      N
                NN
                          N
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
      321          O-N           105
                      N
                NN
                          N
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
      322          O-N           16
                      N
               NN
                   NQN
                     OMeH
                 cis-rac
                             105

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      323                            1340
                        N
                          O
               CiS-raC    OMeH
      324               O-N                1.3
                            N'
      325            O-N                    8
                        N
                  NN
                            N    O
                        OMeH
                cis-rac
      326              O-N                 1.9
                          N
                      N    NN
                         OMeH
                  cis-rac
      327                -N                5.6
                          N
                    NN
                              N    O
                         OMeH
                   cis-rac
                             106

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      328                  N0         0.72
                         ol N
                              Y-H
                               OH
                     trans-rac
      329               o N           12.2
                           N
                   N    N     'NO
                           OMeH
      330                 o N          4.9
                            N
                      N   N     'NC
                            OMeH
      331                 0  N         27
               F             N
                      N   N     'N'
                            OMeH
      332                 N 0          19
                            N
                      N   N      N O
                                 H
      333              O N             6.6
                QyN       N
                   N   NN
                           QNO
                         OMeH
                                 107

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
      334          O N               161
                NCN
                      0NC
                  NN'N
                       OMeH
      335            O N             113
                        ;N
                 N   Z N N
                        6H H
      C91           0  -N           17700
                          NCO2Et
                 N  N
                             N
                          OH
               trans-rac
      336           O-N             4360
                            CO 2 Et
                 N  N~      N
                            H    OH
               trans-rac
      337                N           0.73
                           N
                        OMeH
                            108

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
      338               -            0.99
                         N
                      N
                             N
                        OMeH
      339         ON                  29
                    N
               NN
                         N '
                   OMe
      340             0N               6
                    NN
                      a/No
                        OMbl
      341         ON                  76
                   N
               N Q'NO
                   OMl
      342         ON                  48
                   'N
                   Q/N
                    OMbl
      343               0            10.6
                           QNO
                          %      No
                           OMbi
                             109

WO 2014/028829                 PCT/US2013/055313
      344                       16.8
                     NN0
                       O~I
                  N    N N0
                      OMi
      345            N1
                     N
               YN    N
                     OMbl
      346           ON          137
                    "N
                N "N
                     OMbI
      347             ON         32
      348              -N        1.3
                        N
                        N
                           110

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
      349               O-N             21
                           I)-
                          N
                          N
      350              0  N            0.97
                               H
      351               O-N              3
                          N
                          &N<
                                H
      352             0  -N             3.1
                                   OH
      353           N   0 N     N       23
                        NQO
                          OMeH
                   cis-rac
                    N   N
               354      O-N4.2
                                 H
                               111

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
      355                 0- N        1.2
                             N
                         N~N0
                                  H
      356                            12.5
                       O~N
                 N  N      ND
                       OMeH
      357           e- N             22.3
                       N
                 N$N   N
                          H
      358                             9
               y    NN
                 N  -
                    N     N '
                      OMeH
                  cis-rac
      C92                           58000
                    NN
                 N  N -)  N '
                      OMeH
                   cis-rac
                              112

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      359                          160
                    N
               N
                        N
                    OMeH
      C93                         10181
                    N
               N N
                        H
      360             0N            8
                        N
                 N             OH
                           H
      361                          1440
                    O
               N   0    NO
                    OMl
      362              ON           3
                  N     N N
                         OMbi
      363              ON           10
                  N%    N
                          N
                             H
                          113

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      364            ON            18
                        N
                    N~N
                             H
      365            ON             8
                        N
                 NQ%
                       OMbl
      366                          19
                  NN
               N N
                        N
                    OMbl
      367            ON             2
                       N
                     ONC
                           H
      368            ON             7
                         N
                 trans-rac     OH
                         114

WO 2014/028829                  PCT/US2013/055313
      369             ON          2
                       'NO
                  N NN
                              H
      370             ON         37
                        N
                    N    N
                             H
      371             ON
                        N
                  N NN &NQ
                 cis-rac H OH
      372             ON         15
                           HO
                            H
      373                        63
                  N
                  N1]N      N
               trans-rac
                          115

WO 2014/028829                   PCT/US2013/055313
      374             O-N          45
                        N
                        0    H
               cis-racNN
      375              O-N         12
                          ZN
      37                N
                        0          14
                                   6
                 CIS-raC
                  cis-rac
      378              -N         256
                    NN
      378
                   (    N
                        N
                  cis-rac
                       N      H   2061
                  cis-rac
                              11

WO 2014/028829                  PCT/US2013/055313
      379            0 N         525
                       N
                 N N
                            N '
                       O    H
                  cis-rac
      380                        128
                      ON
               N       N NO
                      OMeH
                 cis-rac
      381                        860
                     ON
               NN
                          H
      382
               >XP>    N. 0
                          N
                                  83
                   N   NN
                         OMeH
      383                        1161
                   N N
               N   N       NO
                      OMeH
                            117

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      384           N             16700
                       N
                N
                        NIN
                       OMeH
                  cis-rac
      385           O
               N"N  N
                            N
                           H
      386           0   N           31
                        N
                N    N
                              O
                          OH
                  trans-rac
      387           O N             89
                       N
                N   N~     N
                           H
                             J
      388           O N            20
                       N
                N   N~     N
                           H
                             J
                              118

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      389          O N             153
                     N
               N ND N
                          H
      390          O N             1920
                  NN
               N   N1N
                     O    H
                  cis-rac
      391          0  N            105
                      N
               NN
                          NO
                     OMeH
                   cis-rac
      392           N .N          2960
                         N-
                NN
                            N
                      O H
               cis-rac
      393          0 N             346
                      N
                N N
                              119

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
                                       394 0 N161
           395II        N04
                       N O>N
                 %riCj"0N
                       QYS%       0
      396           0    N                   2263
                       &N0
                             H
                                    397 10 N1280
                  INf  N
      398           0    N                    18
               y  91{ N
                      Q      'NO0
                        OMe H
               %%r< N
                       0    H
                               120

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      400                               279
                         NMe 2
               NN
                     N
                          &N'ON
                             H
      401            0                   67
                         NMe 2
                 NN       N   NO
                        OMeH
                  cis-rac
      402                  0 N           16
                             N
                    9OH N
                        N         N OH
                                  H
      403                               322
                  N       N    eOH
                             H
      404           0630/O
                         ON
                       aM(
      405            rl, ,21400
                         NN
                N   N       NJ
                       OMeH
                                121

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      406             N              7680
                        N
                 N    N     N
                            H
      407                O N          341
                                   O
                          N    NO
                                H
      408             O                57
                       NNY
                         OMeHI
                cis-rac
      409             0               129
                ~f      0
                            H
      410             0                78
                N
                         N
      411                              10
                   'YN0
               NNN
                            N'
                        OMeH
                               122

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
                          0
      412              N             476
                                 OH
                            N
      413            N 0O             22
                         N
      414             N 0O
                              N
                              H
      415            NO               3
                        N
                   N N      NN
                             H
      416            N  0
               N~X       N
                            N
                              H
      417             NO             105
                               H
                               123

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      418                 N 0            50
                                 N
                                 H
                            0
      419                N               2
                            N
                    NN           N cO
                                 H
                         rac
      420           N- 0                 3
                       N
               N NN&
                            H
      421                0   N          48
                          NN
                                H
      422                     N         106
                                  0>OH
                                 H
      423                  N191
                                 H
                                124

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
                                0
      424                     N             422
                                        OH
                                   N
                                   H
      425                 .N                 60
                           N
               OH            N NC
                          OMeH
                      cis-rac
      426                                   1970
                           N
                      N N        N
                          OMeH
      427                                  4600
                            N
                    N    0NCN
                           OMeH
      428                     0 N           101
                                N
               HON
                          NNJN        N
                                    H
                          0
      429              N                    214
                          N
                  _N   NI
                      NNQO
                          OMeH
                                   125

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
      430           N0                      1000
                       N
                    N         N
                N    N
                      6MeH
      431           N, 0                     22
                  NNN
               N'
                          N
      432                N0                  22
                           N
                   NN
                                      O
                                 H
                      rac
      433                0  -N                7
                             N
                    N
                                  N
                                  H
      434                 NW-O               43
                             N
                      NN
                                  H
      435              O-N                    6
                           N
                                       F
                   NN
                                N        F
                                H
      436               NO                   26
                                       F
                   N    NQ     N         F
                               H
                                   126

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      437              N O             17
                          N
                   N   N*'
                              H
      438                              75
                ~-         N
                    N        N
                              H
      439                             231
                           NN
                        QNN
                      NN      N
                         OMeH
      440               N  0           70
                             HO
                    N&             D
                               H
      441              NN             392
                   N N
                             H
      442                 N      2    324
               N -1
                                N
                               127

WO 2014/028829                  PCT/US2013/055313
      443              N          33
                 N    N
                             H
      444                        634
                         NN
                 N         NO
                             H
      445                         55
                         N&Z
                    N N       N
                              H
                     0
      446          N              72
                     N
               N
                      N15
                       - HO
                          H
      447           N  0         1150
                      N
               N   N       N
                           H
      448            N O         226
                       N
                N   N~
                             H
                            128

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      449                          129
                       N
                 NN
                            N
                            H
      450             NO            11
                        N
                  N
                      N
                             N
                 cis-rac     H OH
      451                           94
                 cis-rac
      452          NO               47
                    N H
               N    N
                         H
      453             N'O           85
                        N
                    rac      H
      454                          783
                        NN
                  N
                         N*
                            H
                            129

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
      455                                 1640
                         -N     N
                    N N
                                  N
                                  H
      456             -N                    6
               NN
                  N N N
                               NO
                      OMeH
      457           0-N                    24
               NN
                NNN
                             N
                             H
      458                                 440
                             N
                             LN.~
                    N    ZN N          O
                                   H
                       rac
      459                    ..0-          15
                            N
                    N ND
                                  N
                                  H
      460                      0          141
                    N             &O
                                  H
                                   130

WO 2014/028829                      PCT/US2013/055313
      461                0-N         52
                           N
                  NN
               N    N      NH
               NN   rac    N
      463       N    N-NH            54
                        OMeH
                          NN
                  cis-rac
                     NN       N
      464                            87
                    N
                              H
      465               N~           18
                 N    N      NN
                        OMeH
               cis-rac
                                131

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      466                 N              24
                          N
                   N
                       N
                               N
                               H
                            0
      467                N-             431
               F.
                     N N
                                 N '
                                 H
      468                 N- 0          175
               F>
                            &N       O
                     N    N~
                                  N
                                  H
      469                NO             440
               FI)
                     N   N~
                                 N
                                 H
      470                Njo             40
                         N
                   N
                           N'N
                         OMeH
      471                 N             170
                          N
                   N
                        N
                                N
                          6MeH
                                132

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      472                N            105
                   N     NQ      C
                   N  N      N
                         OMeH
      473                N           3210
                         N
                   NN
                             N
                             H
      474                  N O        1900
               FN
                             N Ho
                                 H
      475                  NO         101
               F
                                 H
      476                  O-N        430
               F.N
                       N   N~     NO
                                  H
      477        F       O-N           42
                           N
                     NN
                               N
                               H
                                133

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      478                          900
                 NN
                            N
                            H
      479            O             211
                 N
                            N
                            H
      480             NO             8
                        N
               F
                 N
                          N
                             H
      481             N-0           10
               F
                            H
      482            NO             75
                        N
               F N N'N
                                O
                            H
      483           0              315
                    ZN
                       OMeH
      484           0              347
                   N0N20
                       OMeH
                            134

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      485               NO            673
                           I
                           N
                                H
      486               N0           1070
                             ON'
               F                   O
                          N     H
      487              0 .N            15
               F    N           N
                          OMeH
      488                              19
                  F       N
                    N     &N       0
                                H
      489              NO             616
                    NN             0
                       N'N     NO
                              H
      490              NO             248
               FN
                              H
                               135

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
      491                  0-N            33
                              N
               F        N
                                   H
      492                   O-N          74
                              %N
               F      N        N#0
                              OMeH
      493                  O-N           132
                              N .N
               F        N
                                   H
      494                   g- N          64
                                N
               F      N       N
               495 F     N N O13
                                N Ny
                              N
                                   H
      496      F            O             54
                        N
                               N     'N
                              N
                             OMeH
      497                                48
                             O
                     N  N
                            OMeH
                                    136

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
      498                     &N            33
                                 N
               F       N'     Na
                                       H
      499                                  116
                           O
                   N
                       N
                                 N
                                 H
      500                   0 N            423
                              Q'N
                          NN
                              OMeH
      501                                  331
                      N   NaN
                                     H
      502               0   N             3109
                           N
                 N N
                          N
                           OMeH
      503                     N. 0          74
                               I   )
                                 N
               F     NN
                                        N
                                       H
                                      137

WO 2014/028829                       PCT/US2013/055313
      504                  NO         45
                              N
                   F N     NN
                                 H
      505                  NO         126
                              N
                   F  N
               506         N
                                  H   48
      506                  N-O        48
                              N
                   F N     NA
                                 H
      507                 N           43
                             N
                   F
                     N
                                H
      508                   -N         5
                             N
                   F N
                            OMeH
      509            O -N              30
                                H
                                 138

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
      511              N. 0        227
                            N
                        I,>
               F NN
                               H
      512             N- 0          12
                           N
               F
                    N N~
                              N'
                              H
      513             NO            27
               F      O-N           5
      514          N  ND      N
                           N
                          OMeH
               F
      515
                      ZN
                   N O-N
                              N
                                     7
                           N
                              H
      516                N         564
                          N
                              H
                              139

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
      517           N    N                1142
                 NN        N
                           H
      518               O.N               410
                    N        N
                               H
      519              0 N                 95
                        QN        0
                         OMeH
      520      F      O N                  19
                         N
                  N        WN      C
                        OMeH
      521               O-N               278
                                     F F
                          OMeH
      522               0 N                67
                           N
                    NN         N
                           OMeH
      523                  O.N             7
                             N
                                  H
                                140

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
      524                NO              57
                            N
                                 H
      525                      N17
                              N
                                     H
      526        F     O N               49
                         N
                              H
      527                O-N             20
               F            *1rI>
               F
      528            N  ON23
                            NN
                           N
                              H
      529              O-N              369
                          N
                   F N
                                14 1

WO 2014/028829                     PCT/US2013/055313
      530               0-N        5100
               F           N
                       NN
                           OMeH
      531           0 -N            996
                      N
                 NN    N
                      OMeH
      532               NI N        334
                        N
                             N
                               H
      533                N   N      263
                       NN
                               H
      534               N    N      600
      535           O-N             465
                    N'N
                      OMe1
                               142

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
      536                   O-N         19
                              N
               CI
                       N     N     N
                                  H
      537                  O-N          12
                             N
               CI
                      N     N     N
                             OMeH
      538                 O-N          970
                  FN
      539             OMe             3700
                        Nj'    N
                        OMeH
                  cis-rac
      540              OEt              16
               Br         O
                    NN
                              'NO
                          OH H
      541                    0-N        45
                                N
               CI
                                  143

WO 2014/028829                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
      542                          O-N                                      32
                         YKN          N
                                      N
                                 N     N N
                                      OH H
      543                          0 -N                                     32
                                      N
                             N         N  NO
                                     OH H
      544                             OMe                                   10
                          Br            O
                                N
                                           N'O
                                        OH H
      Cis-rac   racemic mixture of two cis isomers.
      Trans-rac = racemic mixture of two trans isomers.
      NA     not active at concentrations up to 10 gM.
      C# =comparative compound, IC50 > 10 VtM
  5
      Methods of Synthesis
      The following abbreviations are used throughout this document.
      Ac                      acetyl
      AcOH                    acetic acid
 10   Boc                     tert-Butoxycarbonyl
      Bn                      benzyl
      Bz                      benzoyl
      BOP                      Benzotriazol-1-yl-oxy-tris-(dimethylamino)phosphonium
                               hexafluorophosphate
 15   Cbz                     benzyloxycarbonyl
      CC                      column chromatography
      CDI                     Carbonyl diimidazole
      DBU                     Diazabicycloundecane
      DCM                     Dichloromethane
                                                144

WO 2014/028829                                                   PCT/US2013/055313
      DIAD            Diisopropylazodicarboxylate
      DIPEA, 'Pr 2EtN NN-Diisopropylethylamine
      DMAP            4-(N,N-dimethylamino)pyridine
      DMF             NN-Dimethylformamide
  5   DMSO            Dimethylsulfoxide
      EDAC, EDCI      1-Ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide
                      hydrochloride
      eq, equiv       Equivalents
      Et 2 0          Diethyl ether
 10   EtOAc           Ethyl acetate
      h, hr           Hours
      HATU            O-(7-Azabenzotriazole-1-yl)-N, N,N'N'-tetramethyluronium
                      PF6
      HCl             Hydrochloric acid
 15   HOAT            Hydroxyazabenztriazole
      HOBt            Hydroxybenzotriazole
      LiHDMS          Lithium hexamethyldisilazide
      LiOH            Lithium hydroxide
      mg              Milligrams
 20   min             Minutes
      mL              Milliliters
       gL             Microliters
      mM              millimolar
       gM             micromolar
 25   gw              microwave heating
      nM              nanomolar
      mmole           Millimoles
      MS              Mass spectroscopy
      MeOH            Methanol
 30   NaBH 3CN        Sodium cyanoborohydride
      NaH              Sodium hydride
      NaIO 4          Sodium periodate
      NMM             N-Methylmorpholine
      rb              Round-bottom
                                       145

WO 2014/028829                                                                         PCT/US2013/055313
      RT                            Room temperature
      sat.                          Saturated
      TEA                           Triethylamine
      TFA                           Trifluoroacetic acid
  5   THF                           Tetrahydrofuran
                                    approximately (-10 C) or, to (range, e.g., X-Y          X to Y)
      Example 1. Synthesis of Compound 5
          Boc
                                                 HN
                                       a, b ,                N
                         0Q                                 H
          NH2                                                      OH
                           ||                                       Br            C02CH3
                                                    C                     K- N    CI
                                                                                           IV
                                                                                           i
                                           Br             CO2CH3
                                                          N                        5
                                                                    N
                                                                    H
                                                                           OH
      a) I(1.] equiv.) plus I (1 equiv.), Bi(OTf)3 -4H2 0 (0.01 equiv.), microwave 150C, 30 min.
 10   b) TFA (20 equiv.), CH 2 Cl 2, rt, 30 min.
      c) III (1 equiv.) plus IV (1.2 equiv.), DIPEA (1.2 equivl) EtOH, microwave, 150C, 35 min.
                 In a capped microwave vial, a mixture of N-Boc-4aminopiperidine I,
      epoxide II, and Bi(OTf)3'4H 20 was heated at 150'C for 30 min under microwave
      irradiation. Upon addition of ethyl ether, the reaction mixture was stirred for 5
 15   minutes, then filtered over celite, washed with ethyl ether and concentrated under
      vacuum. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with brine (2X).
                 To the product N-Boc-protected aminoalcohol dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 was
      added TFA at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min, then
      concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in IM NaOH and
 20   the product extracted with EtOAc (5X).                   The organic phase was dried over
      sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified
      by column chromatography (CC) using CH 2 Cl 2 /MeOH to furnish amino alcohol
      III.
                                                         146

WO 2014/028829                                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
               In a microwave vial a solution of III, pyridine IV and DIPEA in ethanol
      was heated at 150 'C for 35 min under microwave irradiation. The organic solvent
      was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified by CC using
      CH 2 Cl 2/MeOH to afford Compound 5.
  5   Example 2. Synthesis of Compound 33
                Boc                 0
                N                                  Bocs            OH
                                 +                 1    N
       HO                                   a                      N
                                                                   H
                NH2
                                 ||                                        Br               C02CH3
                                                                                                       IV
                                                                b,         cN               CI
                                                 Br            CO2CH3
                                                                     NaOHO                  3
                                                         N     N                            3H
                                                                           H
      Reagents and Conditions: (a) I (1 equiv.) plus 1 (1.3 equivl), NaBH(OAc)3 (1.5 equiv.), AcOH (1.5
      equiv.), DCE, rt, 12 hr; (b) III (1 equiv.), TFA (20 equiv.)CH2 C 2, rt, 30 min; (c) IV (1 equiv.),
      DIPEA (2 equiv.), microwave, 145 C, 35 min.
 10            To a stirred solution of N-Boc-4aminopiperidine I and cyclohexanone II in
      DCE were added NaBH(OAc) 3 and AcOH. The reaction mixture was stirred for 12
      h at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with
      brine (2X). The organic phase was concentrated, and the product purified by CC
      using CH 2Cl 2/MeOH (9:1) furnishing amine III.
 15            To a solution of III in CH 2 Cl 2 was added TFA and the reaction mixture
      was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated under
      reduced pressure, diluted in ethanol followed by addition of DIPEA and pyridine
      IV. The reaction mixture was heated at 145'C for 35 min under microwave
      irradiation. The crude was concentrated under reduced pressure and the product
 20   purified by HPLC furnishing the pure Compound 33.
                                                        147

WO 2014/028829                                                                          PCT/US2013/055313
      Example 3. Synthesis of Compound 7
       Br             C02CH 3      HN                   a            Br              C02CH 3
                             +                0
                N     CI                  O                                  N       N
                                                                       b
            Br             C02CH 3
                                                                                   -              IV
                7 N        N        NN
                                    H
                                                                                    N
      Reagents and Conditions: (a) I (1 equiv.) plus II (1 equiv.), DIPEA (1 equiv.) EtOH, microwave,
      125 0 C, 45 min; (b) 5% HCl, THF, 400 C, 6 hr; (c) IV (I equivl) plus cyclohexylamine (1.2 equiv.),
  5   NaBH(OAc)3 (1.5 equiv.), AcOH (1.5 equiv.), DCE, rt, 16 hr.
                In a microwave vial pyridine I, 4-piperidinone ethyl ketal II and DIPEA
      were dissolved in ethanol and heated at 125 0 C for 45 min under microwave
      irradiation. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the
      product was purified by CC using CH 2Cl 2/MeOH to afford the pyridine derivative
 10   III.
                A solution of III in THF was added to 5% HCl and heated at 400C for 6 h.
      The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude was dissolved
      in ethyl acetate and washed with 0.5M NaOH (2X). The organic solvent was dried
      over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was
 15   purified by CC using hexanes/EtOAc to afford the ketone derivative IV.
                To a stirred solution of IV, cyclohexylamine and AcOH in DCE was added
      at room temperature NaBH(OAc) 3 . The reaction was stirred for 16 h at room
      temperature. Upon reaction completion the mixture was diluted in ethyl acetate and
      washed with brine (2X). The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and the
 20   product purified by CC using CH 2Cl 2/MeOH to furnish Compound 7.
                                                       148

WO 2014/028829                                                                           PCT/US2013/055313
      Example 4. Synthesis of Compound 235
                                                                            o-N
                           C0  2H    HOH N       a                             N
                     N
                     "      CI      H2N"                             N'     CI
                 XI                    XII                   b         HN                 VI
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  j NVill
                             -N
                    N        N                C
        XV                                                           N      N          O
                                               00
                                 NH2
                   d
                                        XVI
                                 0
                           O-N
                               N
                    N      N               0         235
                                     N
                                     H
  5   Reagents and conditions: (a)XI(l equiv.), XII (1.2 equivl), EDCI (1.3 equiv.), HOBt 91.3 equiv.),
      dioxane, rt to 1000 C, pw, 35 min, 70%; (b) XIII (1 equiv.), VIII (1.2 equiv.), DIPEA (1 equiv.),
      EtOH, pw, 125 C, 45 min, 85%; (c) XIV (I equiv.), 5% HCl, THF, 40 0 C, 6 hr, 62%; (d) XV (I
      equiv.), XVI (1.2 equiv.), NaBH(OAc)3 (1.5 equiv.), AcOH (1.5 equiv.), DCE, rt, 5 hr, 76%.
                In a microwave vial, a stirring solution of acid XI in 1,4-dioxane was
 10   treated with HOBt and EDCI at room temperature. The reaction was stirred for 20
      min followed by addition, in a single portion, of amidoxime XII. The reaction was
      stirred for additional 30 min at room temperature and then heated to 100 'C under
      microwave irradiation for 35min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc
      and washed with brine (2X). The organic phase was dried over Na 2 SO 4 anhydrous
 15   and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by C.C. using
      CH 2Cl 2 :MeOH (99:1) to furnish XIII in 70% yield.
                In a microwave vial quinoline XIII, 4-piperidinone ethyl ketal VIII and
      DIPEA were dissolved in ethanol and heated at 125'C for 45 min under
      microwave irradiation. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure
                                                      149

WO 2014/028829                                                                            PCT/US2013/055313
      and the product was purified by CC using CH 2Cl2/MeOH to furnish quinoline XIV
      in 85% yield.
                 A solution of XIV in THF was added to 5% HCl and heated at 400 C for 6
      h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude was dissolved in
  5   EtOAc and washed with 0.5M NaOH (2X). The organic solvent was dried over
      sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product XV was
      purified by CC using hexanes/EtOAc in 62% yield.
                 To a stirred solution of XV, 4-aminotetrahydropyrane XVI and AcOH in
      DCE was added at room temperature NaBH(OAc) 3 and the mixture was stirred for
 10   5 h at room temperature. The mixture was diluted in EtOAc and washed with brine
      (2X). The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and the product purified by
      CC using CH 2Cl 2/MeOH to furnish Compound 235 in 76% yield.
      Example 5: Synthesis of 296
       Boc,             NH        a       Boc  N                          b         HN
                        NH,                              N                                    N'
                  OCH3                             OCH 3                               OCH 3      XIX
           XVIl                                 XVIll
                                                                                O.-N
                                                                    X llN                     c
                                                                          N    CI
                                                                      O-N
                                                                      .  N                 296
                                                               N      N
                                                                              N
                                                                              H
                                                                         OCH3
 15
      Reagents and conditions: (a) XVII (1.0 equiv.), cyclohexanone (1.4 equiv.), NaBH(OAc)3 (1.4
      equiv.), AcOH (1.4 equiv.), DC E, rt, overnight, 75%; (b) XVIII (1 equiv.), TFA (20 equiv.),
       CH 2Cl 2, rt, 30 min; (c) XIII (1.1 equiv.), DIPEA (2.2 equiv.), EtOH, pw, 130 0C, 35 min, 65%.
 20   To a stirred solution of (3S,4R)piperidine XVII and cyclohexanone in DCE were
      added NaBH(OAc) 3 and AcOH and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at
      room temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with
      brine (2X). The organic phase was concentrated, and the product purified by CC
      using CH 2Cl 2/MeOH (9:1) to furnish amine XVIII in 75% yield.
                                                          150

WO 2014/028829                                                                                        PCT/US2013/055313
                   To a solution of XVIII in CH 2 Cl 2 was added TFA and the reaction mixture
         was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The mixture was concentrated under
         reduced pressure, diluted with EtOAc and washed with NaOH (IM). The aqueous
         phase was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The organic phase was concentrated under
   5     reduced pressure and the product XIX was used without further purification.
         In a microwave vial, a solution of XIX, quinoline XIII and DIPEA in ethanol was
         heated at 130'C for 35 min under microwave irradiation. The crude was
         concentrated under reduced pressure and the product purified by HPLC to furnish
         Compound CYM51427 in 65% yield.
  10
                                                                                                           --N
           C02 H HO,                                              HN                                        N
      N    CI       H2N                              C                     H
     XX                XII               rN XXI                                                          Z       N0
                                                                                                                 H
                                                                       XIX                                  0    H
                                                                                                   CYM-51433
 Reagents and conditions: (i) (a)XX (1 equiv.), XII (1.2 equiv.), EDCI (1.3 equiv.), HOBt (1.3 equiv.), dioxane,100 OC,
 MW, 35 min; (ii)XXI (1 equiv.), XIX (1.2 equiv.), DIPEA (1 equiv.), EtOH, pw, 145 0C, 2 h, 80%.
                   In a microwave vial, a stirring solution of acid XX in 1,4-dioxane was
  15     treated with HOBt and EDCI at room temperature. The reaction was stirred for 20
         min followed by addition, in a single portion, of amidoxime XII. The reaction was
         stirred for additional 30 min at room temperature and then heated to 100 0 C under
         microwave irradiation for 35 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc
         and washed with brine (2X). The organic phase was dried over Na2 SO 4 anhydrous
  20     and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product XXI was purified by C.C.
         using CH 2Cl 2:MeOH (99:1).
                   In a microwave vial pyridine XXI, amine XIX and DIPEA were dissolved
         in ethanol and heated at 145 0 C for 2 hours under microwave irradiation. The
         organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product was purified
  25     by HPLC to furnish CYM51433.
                   Other compounds of formula (I) can be prepared by the person of ordinary
         skill using techniques and approaches described herein in conjunction with the
         chemical literature.
  30
                                                                 151

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
      PharmaceuticalCompositions and Uses
               Another aspect of an embodiment of the invention provides compositions
      of the compounds of the invention, alone or in combination with another
      medicament. As set forth herein, compounds of the invention include
  5   stereoisomers, tautomers, solvates, prodrugs, pharmaceutically acceptable salts and
      mixtures thereof. Compositions containing a compound of the invention can be
      prepared by conventional techniques, e.g. as described in Remington: The Science
      and Practiceof Pharmacy, 19th Ed., 1995, or later versions thereof, incorporated
      by reference herein. The compositions can appear in conventional forms, for
 10   example capsules, tablets, aerosols, solutions, suspensions or topical applications.
               Typical compositions include a compound of the invention and a
      pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which can be a carrier or a diluent. For
      example, the active compound will usually be mixed with a carrier, or diluted by a
      carrier, or enclosed within a carrier which can be in the form of an ampoule,
 15   capsule, sachet, paper, or other container. When the active compound is mixed
      with a carrier, or when the carrier serves as a diluent, it can be solid, semi-solid, or
      liquid material that acts as a vehicle, excipient, or medium for the active
      compound. The active compound can be adsorbed on a granular solid carrier, for
      example contained in a sachet. Some examples of suitable carriers are water, salt
 20   solutions, alcohols, polyethylene glycols, polyhydroxyethoxylated castor oil,
      peanut oil, olive oil, gelatin, lactose, terra alba, sucrose, dextrin, magnesium
      carbonate, sugar, cyclodextrin, amylose, magnesium stearate, talc, gelatin, agar,
      pectin, acacia, stearic acid or lower alkyl ethers of cellulose, silicic acid, fatty
      acids, fatty acid amines, fatty acid monoglycerides and diglycerides,
 25   pentaerythritol fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene, hydroxymethylcellulose and
      polyvinylpyrrolidone. Similarly, the carrier or diluent can include any sustained
      release material known in the art, such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl
      distearate, alone or mixed with a wax.
               The formulations can be mixed with auxiliary agents which do not
 30   deleteriously react with the active compounds. Such additives can include wetting
      agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, salt for influencing osmotic pressure,
      buffers and/or coloring substances preserving agents, sweetening agents or
      flavoring agents. The compositions can also be sterilized if desired.
                                                   152

WO 2014/028829                                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
              The route of administration can be any route which effectively transports
      the active compound of the invention to the appropriate or desired site of action,
      such as oral, nasal, pulmonary, buccal, subdermal, intradermal, transdermal or
      parenteral, e.g., rectal, depot, subcutaneous, intravenous, intraurethral,
  5   intramuscular, intranasal, ophthalmic solution or an ointment, the oral route being
      preferred.
              If a solid carrier is used for oral administration, the preparation can be
      tableted, placed in a hard gelatin capsule in powder or pellet form or it can be in
      the form of a troche or lozenge. If a liquid carrier is used, the preparation can be in
 10   the form of a syrup, emulsion, soft gelatin capsule or sterile injectable liquid such
      as an aqueous or non-aqueous liquid suspension or solution.
              Injectable dosage forms generally include aqueous suspensions or oil
      suspensions which can be prepared using a suitable dispersant or wetting agent and
      a suspending agent Injectable forms can be in solution phase or in the form of a
 15   suspension, which is prepared with a solvent or diluent. Acceptable solvents or
      vehicles include sterilized water, Ringer's solution, or an isotonic aqueous saline
      solution. Alternatively, sterile oils can be employed as solvents or suspending
      agents. Preferably, the oil or fatty acid is non-volatile, including natural or
      synthetic oils, fatty acids, mono-, di- or tri-glycerides.
 20           For injection, the formulation can also be a powder suitable for
      reconstitution with an appropriate solution as described above. Examples of these
      include, but are not limited to, freeze dried, rotary dried or spray dried powders,
      amorphous powders, granules, precipitates, or particulates. For injection, the
      formulations can optionally contain stabilizers, pH modifiers, surfactants,
 25   bioavailability modifiers and combinations of these. The compounds can be
      formulated for parenteral administration by injection such as by bolus injection or
      continuous infusion. A unit dosage form for injection can be in ampoules or in
      multi-dose containers.
              The formulations of the invention can be designed to provide quick,
 30   sustained, or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to the
      patient by employing procedures well known in the art. Thus, the formulations can
      also be formulated for controlled release or for slow release.
              Compositions contemplated by the present invention can include, for
      example, micelles or liposomes, or some other encapsulated form, or can be
                                                  153

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      administered in an extended release form to provide a prolonged storage and/or
      delivery effect. Therefore, the formulations can be compressed into pellets or
      cylinders and implanted intramuscularly or subcutaneously as depot injections.
      Such implants can employ known inert materials such as silicones and
  5   biodegradable polymers, e.g., polylactide-polyglycolide. Examples of other
      biodegradable polymers include poly(orthoesters) and poly(anhydrides).
              For nasal administration, the preparation can contain a compound of the
      invention, dissolved or suspended in a liquid carrier, preferably an aqueous carrier,
      for aerosol application. The carrier can contain additives such as solubilizing
 10   agents, e.g., propylene glycol, surfactants, absorption enhancers such as lecithin
      (phosphatidylcholine) or cyclodextrin, or preservatives such as parabens.
              For parenteral application, particularly suitable are injectable solutions or
      suspensions, preferably aqueous solutions with the active compound dissolved in
      polyhydroxylated castor oil.
 15           Tablets, dragees, or capsules having talc and/or a carbohydrate carrier or
      binder or the like are particularly suitable for oral application. Preferable carriers
      for tablets, dragees, or capsules include lactose, corn starch, and/or potato starch.
      A syrup or elixir can be used in cases where a sweetened vehicle can be employed.
              A typical tablet that can be prepared by conventional tabletting techniques
 20   can contain:
      Core:
              Active compound (as free compound or salt thereof)250 mg
              Colloidal silicon dioxide (Aerosil)@ 1.5 mg
 25           Cellulose, microcryst. (Avicel)@        70 mg
              Modified cellulose gum (Ac-Di-Sol)@             7.5 mg
              Magnesium stearate      Ad.
      Coating:
              HPMC approx.            9 mg
 30           *Mywacett 9-40 T approx.        0.9 mg
       *Acylated monoglyceride used as plasticizer for film coating.
              A typical capsule for oral administration contains compounds of the
      invention (250 mg), lactose (75 mg) and magnesium stearate (15 mg). The mixture
                                                 154

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      is passed through a 60 mesh sieve and packed into a No. 1 gelatin capsule. A
      typical injectable preparation is produced by aseptically placing 250 mg of
      compounds of the invention into a vial, aseptically freeze-drying and sealing. For
      use, the contents of the vial are mixed with 2 mL of sterile physiological saline, to
  5   produce an injectable preparation.
              The compounds of the invention can be administered to a mammal,
      especially a human in need of such treatment, prevention, elimination, alleviation
      or amelioration of a malcondition. Such mammals include also animals, both
      domestic animals, e.g. household pets, farm animals, and non-domestic animals
 10   such as wildlife.
              The compounds of the invention are effective over a wide dosage range.
      For example, in the treatment of adult humans, dosages from about 0.05 to about
      5000 mg, preferably from about 1 to about 2000 mg, and more preferably between
      about 2 and about 2000 mg per day can be used.     A typical dosage is about 10 mg
 15   to about 1000 mg per day. In choosing a regimen for patients it can frequently be
      necessary to begin with a higher dosage and when the condition is under control to
      reduce the dosage. The exact dosage will depend upon the activity of the
      compound, mode of administration, on the therapy desired, form in which
      administered, the subject to be treated and the body weight of the subject to be
 20   treated, and the preference and experience of the physician or veterinarian in
      charge.
              Generally, the compounds of the invention are dispensed in unit dosage
      form including from about 0.05 mg to about 1000 mg of active ingredient together
      with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier per unit dosage.
 25           Usually, dosage forms suitable for oral, nasal, pulmonal or transdermal
      administration include from about 125 pg to about 1250 mg, preferably from about
      250 pg to about 500 mg, and more preferably from about 2.5 mg to about 250 mg,
      of the compounds admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
              Dosage forms can be administered daily, or more than once a day, such as
 30   twice or thrice daily. Alternatively dosage forms can be administered less
      frequently than daily, such as every other day, or weekly, if found to be advisable
      by a prescribing physician.
              In various embodiments, the invention is directed to a method of
      modulating a Kappa opioid receptor, comprising contacting the receptor with an
                                               155

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      effective amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention.
      For example, the Kappa opioid receptor can be disposed within the living tissue of
      a human. More specifically, the human can be suffering from a dissociative
      disorder or pain.
  5            In various embodiments, the invention provides a method of treatment of a
      dissociative disorder or pain in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering
      to the patient an effective amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I)
      the invention at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the
      patient.
 10            For example, in various embodiments, a method of providing
      neuroprotection to a patient comprising administering to the patient an effective
      amount or concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention, at a
      frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient, is
      provided.
 15            For example, in various embodiments, a method of modulating the immune
      system in a patient, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount or
      concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention, at a frequency and for
      a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient, is provided.
               For example, in various embodiments, a method of inducing diuresis in a
 20   patient, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount or
      concentration of a compound of formula (I) of the invention, at a frequency and for
      a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient, is provided.
               It is within ordinary skill to evaluate any compound disclosed and claimed
      herein for effectiveness in modulation of or binding to a Kappa opioid receptor and
 25   in the various cellular assays using the procedures described above or found in the
      scientific literature. Accordingly, the person of ordinary skill can prepare and
      evaluate any of the claimed compounds without undue experimentation.
               Any compound found to be effective in modulation of or binding to a
      Kappa opioid receptor can likewise be tested in animal models and in human
 30   clinical studies using the skill and experience of the investigator to guide the
      selection of dosages and treatment regimens.
               It is believed by the inventors herein, and based on information publicly
      available (see cited documents), that modulators of Kappa opioid receptors can be
      used for treatment of the following medical conditions:
                                                  156

WO 2014/028829                                                            PCT/US2013/055313
       Affective disorders: depression, stress/anxiety
      a) Duman RS, Monteggia LM (2006) "A neurotrophic model for stress-related
      mood disorders" Biol Psychiatry59(12):1116-1127
      b) Zhang H, Shi YG, Woods JH, Watson SJ, Ko MC (2007) "Central kappa-opioid
  5   receptor mediated antidepressant-like effects of nor Binaltorphimine: behavioral
      and BDNF mRNA expression studies" Eur J Pharmacol570(1-3):89-96
      c) Land BB, Bruchas MR, Lemos JC, Xu M, Melief EJ, Chavkin C (2008) "The
      dysphoric component of stress is encoded by activation of the dynorphin kappa
      opioid system" JNeurosci 28(2):407-414
 10   d) Filho CB,DelFabbro L, deGomes MG, Goes ATR, Souza LC, Boeira SP, Jesse
      CR (2013) "Kappa-opioid receptors mediate the antidepressant-like activity of
      hesperidin in the mouse forced swimming test" Eur J Pharmacol698 (1-3): 286
      291
      e) Van't Veer A, Carlezon Jr WA (2013) "Role of kappa-opioid receptors in stress
 15   and anxiety-related behavior" Psychopharmacologydoi 10.1007/s00213-013
      3195-5
      Addictive disorders
      a) Blum K, Braverman ER, Holder JM, Lubar JF, Monastra VJ, Miller D, Lubar
      JO, Chen TJ, Comings DE (2000) "Reward deficiency syndrome: a biogenetic
 20   model for the diagnosis and treatment of impulsive, addictive, and compulsive
      behaviors" Journalofpsychoactive drugs 32 Suppl: i-iv, 1-112
      b) McLaughlin JP, Marton- Popovici M, Chavkin C. (2003) "Kappa opioid
      receptor antagonism and prodynophin gene disruption block stress-induced
      behavioral responses" The Journalof Neuroscience 23 (13): 5674-83
 25   c) Hasebe K, Kawai K, Suzuki T, Kawamura K, Tanaka T, Narita M, Nagase H,
      Suzuki T (2004) "Possible pharmacotherapy of the opioid kappa receptor agonist
      for drug dependence" Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1025: 404-13
      d) Beardsley PM, Howard JL, Shelton KL, Carroll Fl (2005) "Differential effects
      of the novel kappa opioid receptor antagonist, JDTic, on reinstatement of cocaine
 30   seeking induced by footshock stressors vs cocaine primes and its antidepressant
      like effects in rats" Psychopharmacology(Berl.) 183 (1): 118-26
      e) Mash, Deborah C. (2006) "Social defeat stress- induced behavioral responses
      are mediated by the endogenous kappa opioid system" Neuropsychopharmacology
      31 (4): 787-94
                                                157

WO 2014/028829                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
      f) Frankel PS, Alburges ME, Bush L, Hanson GR, Kish SJ (2008) "Striatal and
      ventral pallidum dynorphin concentrations are markedly increased in human
      chronic cocaine users" Neuropharmacology55 (1): 41-6
      g) Redila VA, Chavkin C (2008) "Stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking
  5   is mediated by the kappa opioid system" Psychopharmacology200 (1): 59-70
      h) Shippenberg TS (2009) "The dynorphin/kappa opioid receptor system: a new
      target for the treatment of addiction and affective disorders?"
      Neuropsychopharmacology34: 247
      i) Graziane NM, Polter AM, Briand LA, Pierce RC, Kauer JA (2013) "Kappa
 10   Opioid Receptors Regulate Stress-Induced Cocaine Seeking and Synaptic
      Plasticity" Neuron 77 (5): 942-954
      Alcoholism
      a) Schank JR, Goldstein AL, Rowe KE, King CE, Marusich JA, Wiley JL, Carroll
      Fl, Thorsell A, Heilig M (2012) "The kappa opioid receptor antagonist JDTic
 15   attenuates alcohol seeking and withdrawal anxiety" Addiction Biology 17(3): 634
      647
      b) Walker BM, Koob GF (2008) "Pharmacological Evidence for a Motivational
      Role of K-Opioid Systems in Ethanol Dependence" Neuropsychopharmacology
      33(3): 643-652
 20   Walker BM, Zorrilla EP, Koob GF (2011) "Systemic K-Opioid Receptor
      Antagonism by Nor-binaltorphimine Reduces Dependence-Induced Excessive
      Alcohol Self- Administration in Rats" Addict Biol 16(1): 116-119
      Epilepsy
      a) De Safro GB, De Sarro A (1993) "Anticonvulsant properties of non-competitive
 25   antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in genetically epilepsy-prone rats:
      comparison with CPPene" Neuropharmacology 32(1):51-58
      b) de Lanerolle NC, Williamson A, Meredith C et al (1997) "Dynorphin and the
      kappa 1 ligand [311] U69, 593 binding in the human epileptogenic hippocampus"
      Epilepsy Res 28(3):189-205
 30   c) Bausch SB, Esteb TM, Terman GW, Chavkin C (1998) "Administered and
      endogenously released kappa opioids decrease pilocarpine-induced seizures and
      seizure-induced histopathology" J Pharmacol Exp Ther 284(3):1147-1155
      d) Gambardella A, Manna I, Labate A, Chifari R, Serra P, La Russa A, LePiane E,
      Cittadella R, Andreoli V, Sasanelli F, Zappia M, Aguglia U, Quattrone A (2003)
                                                158

WO 2014/028829                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
      "Prodynorphin gene promoter polymorphism and temporal lobe epilepsy"
      Epilepsia 44(9):1255-1256
      e). Loacker S, Sayyah M, Wittmann W, Herzog H, Schwarzer C (2007)
      "Endogenous dynorphin in epileptogenesis and epilepsy: anticonvulsant net effect
  5   via kappa opioid receptors" Brain130(pt 4):1017-1028
      f) Bortolato M, Solbrig MV (2007) "The price of seizure control: Dynorphins in
      interictal and postictal psychosis" Psychiat Res 151 (1-2): 139-143
      Cognition Deficiencies
      a) Jiang HK, Owyang VV, Hong JS, Gallagher M (1989) "Elevated dynorphin in
 10   the hippocampal formation of aged rats: relation to cognitive impairment on a
      spatial learning task" Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 86(8): 2948-2951
      b) Daumas S, Betourne A, Halley H, Wolfer DP, Lipp H, Lassalle J, Franc6s B
      (2007) "Transient activation of the CA3 Kappa opioid system in the dorsal
      hippocampus modulates complex memory processing in mice" Neurobiol Learn
 15   Mem 88(1):94-103
      c) Carey AN, Lyons AM, Shay CF, Dunton 0, McLaughlin JP (2009)
      "Endogenous k Opioid Activation Mediates Stress-Induced Deficits in Learning
      and Memory" JNeurosci 29 (13): 4293-4300
      d) Nemeth CL, Paine TA, Rittiner JE, Beguin C, Carroll Fl, Roth BL, Cohen BM,
 20   Carlezon WA Jr (2010) "Role of kappa-opioid receptors in the effects of salvinorin
      A and ketamine on attention in rats" Psychopharmacology 210 (2):263-274.
      Schizophrenia
      Tejeda HA, Shippenberg TS,Henriksson R (2012) "The dynorphin/k-opioid
      receptor system and its role in psychiatric disorders" Cell Mol Life Sci 69 (6):
 25    857-896
      Alzheimer's disease
      a) Mathieu-Kia AM, Fan LQ, Kreek MJ, Simon EJ, Hiller JM (2001) "Mu-, delta
      and kappa-opioid receptor populations are differentially altered in distinct areas of
      postmortem brains of Alzheimer's disease patients" Brain Res 893(1-2):121-134
 30   b) Yakovleva T, Marinova Z, Kuzmin A, Seidah NG, Haroutunian V, Terenius L,
      Bakalkin G (2007) "Dysregulation of dynorphins in Alzheimer disease" Neurobiol
      Aging 28 (11):1700-1708
      Pain (visceral pain, acute post-operative pain)
                                                159

WO 2014/028829                                                              PCT/US2013/055313
      Arendt-Nieisen L, Ole sen AE,      taahtC, MeiiaghF, Kel S, WonGY,DArews
       AM (2009)    "Analgesic efficacy of peripheral kappa-opioid receptor agonist CR665
      compared to oxycodone in a multi-modal, multi-tissue experimental human pain
      model: selective effect on visceral pain"   eaxgigy       111(3): 616-624
  5   Riviere PJ (2004) "Peripheral kappa-opioid agonists for visceral pain" Brit J
      Pharmacol 141 (8) 1331-1334.
               Accordingly, the invention can provide a method of treating a condition in
      a human patient for which modulation of a kappa opioid receptor is medically
      indicated, comprising administering an effective amount of concentration of a
 10   compound of the invention at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial
      effect to the patient, wherein the condition comprises one or more of an affective
      disorders comprising depression or stress/anxiety; an addictive disorder;
      alcoholism, epilepsy, a cognition deficiency, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease,
      or pain, e.g., visceral pain or acute post-operative pain.
 15   Bioassay Procedures
               The IC50 of each compound shown in Table was with respect to the kappa
      opioid receiptor was determined.
               The cell line for the OPRK1 antagonist assay stably expresses the following
      elements. The carboxy terminus of the OPRK1 receptor has a 7 amino acid linker,
 20   followed by the TEV protease cleavage site and a GAL4-VPT6 fusion protein. The
      cell line also expresses a b-arrestin-2-TEV protease fusion protein and contains a
      reporter construct consisting of the UAS response element and the b-lactamase
      (bla) reporter gene. Upon activation of the receptor, g-protein receptor kinase
      (GRK) phosphorylates specific intracellular residues of OPKR1 and this induces
 25   recruitment of B-arrestin2-TEV protease fusion protein. The TEV protease
      recognizes and cleaves the TEV site, releasing the GAL4-VP16 fusion protein,
      which then translocates to the nucleus. The GAL4-V16 binds to the UAS element,
      driving expressing of the b-lactamase gene. B-lactamase expression is detected
      with the cell permeable, fluorescent substrate, CCF4-AM. This substrate consists
 30   of coumarin tethered to fluoroscein via a b-lactam ring. In the absence of b
      lactamase, excitation of the dye with 405 nm light results in FRET from the
      coumarin to fluoroscein and emission of green (525 nm maximum) light. B
      lactamase cleavage of the substrate separates the courmarin fluorophore from the
                                                 160

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
      fluorscein, and 405 nm excitation results in blue (460 nm maximum) emission.
      The assay is monitored by the blue/green emission ratio.
      The antagonist assay is performed by seeding the cells into 384 well plates and
      incubating them 16-24 hours at 37 'C. Test antagonist compounds are added and
  5   incubated for 30 minutes at 37 'C. Next an EC80 challenge of U-50488 (OKRK1
      agonist) is added and the samples are incubated for 4 hours at 37 'C, followed by
      addition of CCF4-AM substrate. The plates are then incubated 2 hours at room
      temperature in the dark and the blue/green ratio determined on a fluorescent plate
      reader. See J Biomol Screen April 2009, vol. 14 no. 4, pp 381-394.
 10   Bioassay Results
              For the 118 compounds of table 1, 22 were found to have IC50 values of
       10-100 nM, 46 had IC50 values of 100-1000 nM, 44 had IC50 values of 1000
       10,000 nM, and 6 had IC50 values of greater than 10,000 nM
              While the invention has been described and exemplified in sufficient detail
 15   for those skilled in this art to make and use it, various alternatives, modifications,
      and improvements will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing
      from the spirit and scope of the claims.
              All patents and publications referred to herein are incorporated by reference
      herein to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and
 20   individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety.
              The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of
      description and not of limitation, and there is no intention that in the use of such
      terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and
      described or portions thereof, but it is recognized that various modifications are
 25   possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus, it should be understood
      that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred
      embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the concepts
      herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such
      modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention
 30   as defined by the appended claims.
                                                 161

 1:
 \dar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16561489_l.doc-2 03/2018
                Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                           161A

WO 2014/028829                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
       1.     A compound of formula (I)
                                    Y
                           x     I~        zR
                                    A
                          W                                    (R2)m
                                    N            Cyc                m
                                                                      (I)
      wherein
              the ring designated A can further comprise an additional nitrogen atom in
      any position that bears any of W, X, Y, or Z, provided that the respective group W,
      X, Y, or Z is absent from that position;
              W is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (Cl-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
              X is H, halo, nitro, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C1-C6)haloalkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl,
      (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, NRaRb, N(Ra)C(=O)(C 1-C6)alkyl, CO 2 R, or heteroaryl;
              Y is H, halo, (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, or halo;
              Z is halo, hydroxy, CO 2 R, C(=O)NR 2, CN, heteroaryl(Co-C 6)alkyl,
      hydroxy(C 1-C6)alkyl, HC(=0), HC(=0), (Cl -C6)C(=0), or CR(=NOR);
              wherein each independently selected R is H, (Cl-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, (C6-C1O)aryl, or (C6-C10)aryl(C1-C6)alkyl;
              or, any adjacent pair of W, X, and Y, can together with the atoms to which
      they are bonded form a fused cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, or aryl, or heteroaryl, any of
      which can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (C1-C6)alkyl, (C3
      C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NRa R , N(Ra)C(=0)(C1-C6)alkyl, , CO 2 R, or
      heteroaryl;
              wherein any alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl of W, X, Y, or Z, can be
      unsubstituted or can be mono- or independently multi-substituted with (Cl
      C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, halo, nitro, NRa R , N(Ra)C(=O)(C1-C6)alkyl, CO 2 R,
      or heteroaryl;
                                               162

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
               the ring system Cyc, comprising the nitrogen atom, comprises a mono-, bi-,
      or tri-cyclic heterocyclyl bonded to ring A via the nitrogen atom, wherein Cyc
      comprises a 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 membered ring, optionally bridged with one or two
      bridges independently comprising 0, 1, or 2 carbon atoms, the ring system Cyc
      optionally containing 1 or 2 additional heteroatoms selected from NR, 0, or S(O)q
      wherein q = 0, 1, or 2; wherein R 1 , and optionally, m independently selected R2 ,
      are bonded to the ring system Cyc, m = 0, 1, or 2;
                         1a       ba                  b
               R is (CH 2)nNRaR , wherein R and R are each independently H, alkyl,
      cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, wherein any alkyl,
      cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, heterocyclyl, or heterocyclylalkyl, is substituted with
      0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently selected J, and wherein any heterocyclyl or cycloalkyl
      is mono-, bi-, or tri-cyclic; or Ra and Rb together with the nitrogen atom to which
      they are bonded form a heterocyclyl ring substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4
      independently selected J, wherein n = 0, 1, or 2;
               or R is (CH 2 )p1 NRa(CH 2)p2 bonded to two carbon atoms of Cyc to form a
      5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocyclyl substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 independently
      selected J, pl and p2 are independently 0, 1, or 2, provided that pl + p2 is no less
      than 2;
               R 2 is (Cl-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(C1-C6)alkyl, OR, CO 2 R, or halo, wherein m
      0, 1, or 2;
               J is independently at each occurrence OR, (Cl-C6)alkyl, hydroxy(C1
      C6)alkyl, (C3-C9)cycloalkyl, CO 2R, or halo;
               or any pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
      2.       The compound of claim 1 wherein W is H or methyl.
      3.       The compound of claim 1 wherein X is H, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo,
      nitro, NH 2 , CH 3C(=O)NH, CH 3(CH 2)2C(=O)NH, 3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl, 3
      ethyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl, or 3-cyclopropyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl.
      4.       The compound of claim I wherein Y is H or chloro.
      5.       The compound of claim I wherein Z is CO 2H, CO 2 CH 3 , C0 2 C2 H5 ,
      CO 2CH(CH 3) 2, CN, 3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl, 3-ethyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 -yl,
                                                 163

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
      3-cyclopropyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl, CH 2 OH, CH 3C(=O), CH=NOCH 3, or
      CN=NOCH 2 CH 3.
      6.       The compound of claim 1 wherein ring system Cyc is any one of
           N'N                                                          N
                  CSNcJ
      wherein R 1 and, optionally, (R 2 )m, are bonded thereto at any position, and wherein
      a wavy line indicates a point of bonding.
      7.       The compound of claim 1 wherein R is (CH 2)nNRaR and n is 0 or 1; Ra is
      ethyl, 2-pentyl, 4-methyl-2-pentyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
      cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, bicyclo[2.2.1]heptyl, bicyclo[2.2.2]octyl,
      bornyl, adamantyl, or tetrahydropyranyl, any of which is substituted with 0, 1, 2,
      3,or4J, and Rb is H.
       8.      The compound of claim 1 wherein R is (CH 2)nNRaR and n is 0 or 1; and
      Ra and Rb together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bonded form a
      pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, azepinyl morpholinyl, or thiomorpholinyl ring, any of
      which is substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 J.
      9.       The compound of claim 1 wherein any R2 is independently selected OR, F,
      Cl, Br, methyl, hydroxymethyl, ethyl, or hydroxyethyl.
       10.     The compound of claim 1 wherein R2 is not present..
       11.     The compound of claim 1 wherein ring system Cyc and R1 together form a
      group of formula
                                                 164

WO 2014/028829                                                             PCT/US2013/055313
                                                    NRa
      wherein Ra is as defined in claim 1 and a wavy line indicates a point of bonding,
      and wherein Cyc is optionally substituted with additional R2 groups.
       12.    The compound of claim 1 wherein the compound is any of the following:
                                                 C1
       Br           CO 2 Me                            CO2 Et
              NN           HO                    N     N      HO
                             H       1                         H          2
       Br           CO 2 Me
              N     N                               Br           COOMe
                              NH                           N     N
                     HO                                                  N       OH
                             -6      3                                   H
              6
                   COOMe                            Br           CO 2 Et
       Br
          'INCO~                                                       HO
             N N            N     0                        N     N
                            H        7                                            8
                   0
       Br     N       OMe         OH
             N     N
                        aN'
                            H        10
                                                            Br
                                                               / \CO      2Me
             O     OMe          H                               N
                                N                                   N
       Br         N             NN1
               12
                                              165

WO 2014/028829                                                  PCT/US2013/055313
       Br          CO 2Me                   Br       CO2 Me
             N     N       N                   N     N
                           H   13                           H         14
       Br          CO 2Me                          0
                                            Br         OMe
                                                        We
              N    N                N              N
                            H  15                          H          16
                                                    0
                 0
       Br           OMe                     Br
                             We                     COOMe
             N   N       N                     N     N
                               17                            '        18
                  0
       Br        COOMe                      Br      COOMe
                         H     19[I                                  2
                  N                                 N
                          H    19                          H         20
       Br        COOMe                      Br      COOMe
             N    N       N
                                               N    N      N
                        H      21                          H         22
       Br         COOMe                     Br      COOMe
              N   N a     N
                                               N    N
                                                               hI~
                                                                 j
                          H    23                          H         24
                                      Br       2 Me     OC
        B     CO Et
            N       N       0              NN&
                      H        25                   H           26
                                       1            0
       Br    N       We                     Br         OMe
                        HO,
                NN
                        H      27                          H         28
                                       166

WO 2014/028829                                                PCT/US2013/055313
       Br       CO2Me                    s           0
                          NN                         N
                                N                N   N
                                  31                        H      32
                O                                  0
       Br          O                     Br          OH
            N   N         O
                                               N   N     NJh
                          H       33                     H         34
               0
                                         I       COOMe
           N   NL        N                    N   N
                         H        35                    H          36
       I       CO2 Me                    Br        CO2Et
            N
                                                    NN'        0
                                  37                      H        38
       Br n      CO 2iPr                 CI  nrlCO2Me
             N   N         N                   N   N      N
                           H      39                      H        40
                       N                 1       CO2 Me
       Br
            ~N N~
                                                        NNl72
                           H      41                    H          42
       CI nc2    CO2Me                    Br       COMe
             N   N        OH                     N      OH
                           H      43                     H         44
        Br       CO 2 Me                  I       CO2Me
                                              N       N O
               N      N       jN
                            H     45                     H         46
                                     167

WO 2014/028829                                                PCT/US2013/055313
                                                  N0
                                         Br                    N
       Br
              N  N      H                      N    N       N
              N   N     N                            N
       Br        COM                        r        OM
                             a '0 47                    OH
                        OH                                         48
       Br        CO2 Me                  Br      CO  2 Me
              N       H
                                              N' NO
        Br     CO 2 Me                    Br        CO 2 Me
              NN
                                               N    N
                         H        51                        H      52
         Br    C O
                 2 Me                     Br    CO 2 Me
              N                               NH
                           Clo                          H
                     H                                    H3       56
       ,, ,CO    2Me                      Br,.C       2 Me
           N     0 (OHK                       N          O
                     H            59                        H      56
            N         OHNO
                       H          57   8Br          C   2 MeH      6
                                     168

WO 2014/028829                                               PCT/US2013/055313
        Br       CO 2 Me               Br        CO2 Me
              N   N          0O              N   N
                          H     61                 OH H           62
        Br       CO 2 Me               Br        CO2 Me
             N   NJ           Q              N     N          O
                         H      63                        H       64
        Br       CO2 Me                Br        CO 2 Me
                NH                             NN&O
                           NOH  65                        H       66
                                       Br        CO2Me
        Br          0M
                  N N
                                             N   N
                                NO                         N
                                HH
                                67                     OH         68
       Br        CO2Et                 CI        CO 2 Me
           IN    N                           N   N
                      Y-H                               -. H
                       OH       69                     OH         70
       CI        CO2Et
                                       Fn       CO 2 Me
             N   N
                                            N
                          HN                      &DNJ0
                       OH       71                      H         72
                                        Br      CO2Me
       Br         CO 2Me                     N      N
             NN
                                                     OH
                           H    73         trans-rac              74
                                   169

WO 2014/028829                                                     PCT/US2013/055313
       I         CO 2 Me
            NN
                         N                   Br          OH
                                                  NI
                      OH
          trans-rac                   75                                76
        1        CO 2 Me
             NN
                         N                   Br        CO2 Me
                                 HN'
                      OH
            trans-rac                  7                                78
       Br         CO2Me                      Br        CO 2 Me
                  N                               N    N
                       OH                                   OH
            trans-rac                             trans-rac              80
       Br         CO2 Me                      Br   s   CO 2Me
              N   N       N
                                                   N   N       Q
                       OH                                   OH
              trans-rac            81             trans-rac              82
       Br          CO 2 Me
                                             0 2N       CO 2Me
               N    N
               N    QZ"NN
                            NH2
                                                   N        N'N
                      OH              83                        H        84
       H2N         CO 2Me                    YN          CO2Me
                                0
               NN          N                   O     N   N
                           H          85                         H       86
                                         170

WO 2014/028829                                                     PCT/US2013/055313
                                             I       CO 2 Me
                                                 NN
       Br          CONHMe                                 N     IN
                                                       Y-H
              N    N                                       OH
                          H
                            aN'C
                                  87
                                               trans-rac                 88
       1          CO 2 Me                    I       CO2 Me
            N     N                              N   N
                       OH                                 OH
            trans-rac             89
                                                 trans-raC              90
                  CO 2 Me
             N    N                             0        0
                       OH                           N    N
            trans-rac             91                            H
                                                                         92
                                                                        92
           0         0
                        o           o
                 N H0
              trans-rac           93                        OH H        94
                 H        O                                   O
                 N          0                       Br
               0       NN0-       0
                      N       N N                         N Z:N N
                                H     95                             H
               96
                                         171

WO 2014/028829                                                 PCT/US2013/055313
                0
       Br             OH                            0
            N        NN                  0 2N          OMeH
                       H                        NN
            trans-rac          97                          H        98
       Br
                  o                      Br
                                                   N0
                                                   'f
           N             N
                         ON                    N   N   N
                         H     99                          H         100
                  N0                     Me 2 C n'      Br   OH
       BrN        N                                     ZN      J
                                                              H
                   NN      Q
                         H     101             trans-rac             102
                                                     0       0
        Me2C          Br                           0           O
                  NNOH
                             H     103                         HN
              104
                OMe                              OMe
       Br          0                         N
             N   N     N
                                             N       NO
                   OH H        105                 OH H              106
       Br                                %..      CO2Me
             N    N    N
                                              N   &      N0
                       H       107                       H           108
                                     172

WO 2014/028829                                                   PCT/US2013/055313
         n .CO      2 Me  OH
             N   NIj                                CO 2 Me
                                10              N IN        OH<
                        H
                                                            N
              trans-rac             109                     H          110
                                            Br        CO 2 Me
        CI        CO 2 Me                        N    N
               N   N> OH                                      N
                           N                                  H
                           H                       cis-rac             112
        Br n       CO 2 Me                         Br         CO2Me
               N   N        N
                                                         NNQ&
                      CO 2A                                     CO 2Me
                cis-rac           113                    cis-rac
               114
                                                      0
       Br         CO2Me                     Br          O
                  NN     NN                        NN
                    CO 2de                              CO2de
               cis-rac              115           trans-rac            116
                   O                                  O
       Br            O
                                            Br          O'
               NNN                               N    N      N
                     CO2Me                              CO 2 le
             trans-rac                7         trans-rac              118
                                                      NOMe
           O               N                Br               OH
                              &N$0                           H
                      OH H          119        trans-rac               120
                                        173

WO 2014/028829                                               PCT/US2013/055313
                  N OEt                           0
       Br                OH            Br            0
                         NN
                         N                        N
                         H                               H
            trans-rac          121             cis-rac             122
                                                  N OMe
                                        Br
                    I't      YNN<0'
                        H                                 J
            cis-rac            123                        H        124
                    OEt                 I n     CO 2 Me
       Br         N      O                  N   N
                                                        H
                         NNJ
                         H     125            cis-rac              126
                  o                             0
       Br                              >      IOMe
             N    N      N                  NN
                    OH H       127                  OH  H          128
                  o                         MeO N
       Br            H                 Br
             NN           N                  NN
                     OH   H    129                   OH H          130
             EtO N
       Br                              Me2C            Br
            NN
             N    NLNO
                                                  N        N N
                    6H H       131                       OH  H
              132
                                   174

WO 2014/028829                                           PCT/US2013/055313
                                              0
                 CO 2 Me              Br         OEt
           "'N   N       OH
               NN     <H0                 N
                                          N    ZN    N
                         H    133                OH H          134
                O                              O-N
       Br          OiPr               Br
             N   &Nf
                                          N    N      N0
                     H H      135                OH   H        136
       Br                             Br          NMe 2
             N  NC                         NN
                  &H H        137                OH H          138
                            O
       Br          NEt2                          N
             N  N        N                    N
                   6H H       139                OH H          140
            MeO N
                                           EtO N
        Br                            Br
             N
             N   NC N
                                           NON ZlNO
                   OH H       141                 6H H         142
                O N                            0
       Br            >--              Br
             N  N        NO
                                           NN
                   OMeH                      HO
              cis-rac         143        trans-rac             144
                                  175

WO 2014/028829                                                PCT/US2013/055313
                  0 .N
       Br             -I>-                          O
           SBrOEt
             N    NNN                                     Q
                HO                                   OMeH
           trans-rac           145             cis-rac              146
                  NOMe                         o
       Br                                         OMe
              SN           NO
                                          N             N
                      OH   H   147                OH H              148
                            0~
                 HO-N
          NN       N                   Br             N
             HO          H                    N        N N
          trans-rac            149                    OH H          150
                 0   -N                          0 -N
       Br              ll
             S    N                             N
                N      NO                   N    N       N
                HO                             HO
           trans-rac           151         trans-rac                1
                             0                    O-N
                                                N
                   OEt
           N:tNN                            N     N       N
                   OH     H    153                     H H          154
                     0,N               Et
                                       Et             N
                                                  N &~
              N    NN            N              N     ":  N '
                      OH H     155                   OH   H         156
                                   176

WO 2014/028829                                        PCT/US2013/055313
                                                0
                                           N   NN
                HO                               OMeH
           trans-rac             157       cis-rac          158
                   OEt
               HO
          tranS-raC              159             OH H       160
                              NO                 0
                         HO                 HO C
                NN     N                       H
                   OH  H         161                        162
                   o'                           N
                       NHN                   NN
                   0   H                    HO
              cis-rac            163     trans-rac          164
                0 -N
                    N       C
           N    N      N0
                .o-    H                     CNO
            cis-rac              165           OH  H        166
                                     177

WO 2014/028829                                               PCT/US2013/055313
                0
                                              NNNN       N
                  OMeH                             K       NOK
               cis-rac         167                   OH    H       168
                                                    0
                                              N
            N   N                                    0
                   -    H      169            trans-rac            172
                          N          HOH
                    N9%O                 :t,>           N
                     N               N          N    O-N
                       HH      163                                 170
                         NO                             N
                 t      HH     17cs-rac         174HH                7
               HNO                                    Z OMeH
                                                      QNO
                                   Z"NJC            CiOMeH
                  OH    H      175                  178
                                                                 7s-rac6
                          OH H 15               cis-ac178

WO 2014/028829                                              PCT/US2013/055313
                                                        ON
                                                          N
           NN0
                     N -
                     NN&    NOMeH
                         OH H          177            trans-rac
               178
                   N
                                                    N
                   OMe                          H
                                                HO
              cis-rac           1trans                 rac        182
                  O, N                       NN    N
                       N      NN              N   N
                              omeH                      H
                   N
                                                HO
                         H        183                          184
                                         179

WO 2014/028829                                           PCT/US2013/055313
                                               N.N
             N    N                    N       H
                               NJO            HO
                         H         185      trans-rac          186
                     -N
       F3C            NI
                                                     OON
              N    N                                       N
                            tr~is-rI                NcJ2
               tranS-raC           187                 OH  H
              188
                  O-N                                O-N
                      N                          N
              N    NAN                           NN
                       NWO                         jN>
                                                     L~N
                 HO0
                      HO                                   H
              trans-rac        189                cis-rac
              190
                  0-N
                  N                                  0-N
          0   N   NN
                 HO       H     9N
                                                     NC N
              tranS-raC        191                     OH H
              192
                                        180

WO 2014/028829                                         PCT/US2013/055313
                   O-N
                                                  0-N
                       Q NO                          N
              N    N                                  *> N
                               193                       H
               194
                   N                OI
                                                N
                 O-N                         O-N
                     oN
               HO                           HO
             N  trans-rac
                  N      N                 trans-raC          ,
               HO            OOe             H
                0I         N
                trans-ractanra
                        HO                   H
                        HO
                     tasrc 17trans-rac
              trans-racnS-rC           200
                                  199
                         O181

WO 2014/028829                                         PCT/US2013/055313
               HO                            HO
              tranS-raC         20          trans-raC        20
                 o-N
                    N
                   -N                         OH-N
               H                                     N
               trans- rac       20FH                         24
                           OO-N
                 HO                          HO
                  0-N
                trans-rac       205      trans-rac           206
                  N
                                NN                 HO
                     OH H     207                    raC         208
                                          N N      N
                      NN                       OMeH
                         H      209        cis-rac        210
                                     182

WO 2014/028829                                           PCT/US2013/055313
                  O-N
                            N                  0-N
               trans-rac        211                           212
                             N               N   Ne
                   N-N                             N
                       N                        N)    NH
                       OH                             OH
              trans-raccmstransc                N
                                                                   21
                            O-NN
                        N       -N
                    OH                              NN   OH
                             NN
                            H   23csrcis-ra
            N    N
           trans-rac        217                   OH  H     218
                                                     NOMe
                          K    LNk)                    OMeH
                                      21922
                                         183

WO 2014/028829                                                  PCT/US2013/055313
                 O-N                                   0-N
                                               NQN
            N    NC      N4
                        N'0                                   J
                         H        221                   HO         222
                 0-N                                 (D-N
                    S>YN
                   N                                 N
               HO                                   HO
            trans-rac             223             trans-rac       224
                  020
                   N       N
              N1
                   QeH                                HO
               CiS-raC25                          trans-raC         26
                                                        -N
                   0 -N
                            HH    227                               226
                                                             N
                               Z:'NJ               CS     OMeH
                      OH H        227                       Hrac    228
                   -18
                                                        &N0
                        OH                                  H
            trans-rac             29trans-rac                     23
                      O
             trans-rac23H                                          22
                                           184

WO 2014/028829                                               PCT/US2013/055313
                                                      N
                    &NN0
                 NN      N                           aN
                         H        233                  0     234
                  O-N                               O N
                    N                                 N
              NN         N                       N  ND     N
                         H        235                      H      236
                 O-N                                  O-N
                                                   CN
               N     N
                                  N~N                 Z:N
                        H         237                    OH H       238
                    O-N
       CI              N
                         OH
             trans-rac            239
                             O-N
                  C1            N
                        N    NN
                   cis-racOMeH            240
                   0-N                               O
           F                                   F        N
                   NN      NN                                   C
                      OH   H      241-rjg              OMeH
                                  241                              242
                                           185

WO 2014/028829                                             PCT/US2013/055313
                     0-N
        F               NN
                            N")
           trans-raC24                             OH H     24
                NNo                                             OH
                 N                                   N
               HO                                        H
          trans-rac                               trans-raC     24
                           N
                   ONO          24424              N
                            NF                     O N
                          H        247
              2486
                                 N&NQ
                cisra              24                    H FO2H
                    2249
                             O-Nj
                                ZY    MeHOFe             N
                 OHH           21cis-rac                          5
                                             186N

WO 2014/028829                                                   PCT/US2013/055313
         F        O
                    N
                          OHO
                            0-N
                          N      N     0
                                   H     254
                                                       0  -N
                   ,CN                                     N
                                                              HO
           LINI       N       OH                   N          N~
                   O                                     N
                          H         257          trans-rac           25
                     CN         OH                   0-N
                     &NC
                            N ZD'O              CS      OMeH
                          C         257                              258
                    N   e
                   0NN                                          OQ-N
                      N                                     N
                                          261
              262
                                            187

WO 2014/028829                                                    PCT/US2013/055313
                               N                        N
              N     N      NN
                     OMeH                                CH2
                cis-rac              263          trans-rac          264
                                                         O-N
                        >-                                  N*>
                NN          N>                              N
                               &N~N
                            H        265                                266
                                                          O-N
                   0-iN
                      N          O       N              N     N
                     Q'NC                                   OMeH
                                     267             cis-rac          268
                     O-N
                                                        N-N
                      N     N
                        CH2A
               trans-rac             269                        H       270
                      -N                             O-N
                       NN
                                               N
                                                      N       N
                           NN N    Op
                N        N                       NN
                             H       271                     H          272
                   NN
                        QNO
                      OMeH                          N     2LN
                CIS-raC              273                       H        274
                                           188

WO 2014/028829                                            PCT/US2013/055313
                                                o-N
                   0N                           N    Q>   Q
                                 NN
                         NN~>~rOOMeH
                        H         275                       276
                 O
                HO                                  OMeH
            trans-raC             277          CiS-raC        278
                    QINO
                        N                           N
                     OMeH                               H
               CIs-rac                    trans-rac OH        28
                   o
                     OMeH                            OH
               cis-rac            283        tran-ra          284
                              O-N                 N
                          NN0
                          H       285                 H      286
                                      189

WO 2014/028829                                              PCT/US2013/055313
                                O
                     trans-rac    OH    288
                     0                                 N
               N N
                             0N
                                                        NN
                         H     289                         H      290
                   O0                                  N
                                                    OMeH
       trans-rac      OH       291          trans-rac         292
                  o-N
                    N                              O
               N  N1    N                             N
                    OMeH
                                                  N      N
           tranS-raC           293                   OMeH      294
                   N                                  N
              NN        NN         N                 N
                   OMeH        295                    OMeH     296
                                                OoN
                                                   N
               N  N )NN'
                    OMeH       297                 OMeH       298
                                     190

WO 2014/028829                                             PCT/US2013/055313
                O-N                            0-N
                   N                              N
           N    N      N                   N     QNN
                  OMeH             299            OMeH       300
                   NN
                                *>O-N
                  raSaC301                               H      302
                  Hoy$H 0
                                           QL
                     OMeH                              OH
             CIs-rac                          trans-raC
                                                    QN      0 30
                       -N   I  NN                NY     N
                                                   O-N
                   O-N
                              OOMeH
                         H         305       cis-rac           306
                                                   O-N
                   hZN                              N
                              H    307                       30
                   O-N                       N      -N N
                       OH                          OMeH
             trans-raC                      Cis-rac
                         NQ                           N
                     OMeH                            OMeH
             CI-rac                309      cis-rac            310
                                       191

WO 2014/028829                                            PCT/US2013/055313
                  0 -N                           O -N
                  Q.NO
                   kN    N N
                                       N1Q
                                                    N
                                                    N      O
                    OMeH                           OMeH
           cis-rac             311         cis-rac             312
                       N                           N
                          N                           N
                      OMeH                          OMeH
               cis-rac         313          cis-rac            314
                                                  N
                           __N                 Q N      N
                N        'N                      OMeH
                      OMeH     315          cis-rac          316
                      -                       O-N
                    N
                                          N    Q      NO
                    OMeH                        OMeH
             cis-rac           317
                                           cis-rac             318
                O-N                           0-N
                   N                            %N
            N    N      NN
                   OMeH                         OMeH
             cis-rac           319         cis-rac
                                   192

WO 2014/028829                                                     PCT/US2013/055313
                               ON                                  N
                 OMeH                                     OMeH
                                 CSrC321                              322rC
                                    NN
                     N
                       QNN        C                           N
                     NO         N~                              NO
             CiS-raCOMeH              323            cis-racOMeH         324
                                                               O326
                     NN
                          NN
       0QfCIS-raCN7
               N
                      OMeH
                          N 'N
                                     32                       N
                                                       traS-raC
                                                        N   N
                                                               >
                                                              OeH
                                                                        32
                         0NO                            N   0/Nfl
                     6MeH
                      OMeH          3OeH39OMeH                                33
                                                                             33
                                      32           1                    32
                   cis-rc             325cis-r1932

WO 2014/028829                                          PCT/US2013/055313
                    oNNO
                                                        N
       FZDN
                       OMeH    331                    H        332
                N     NrN
                      N                  N       N
           yN N    N                     N    N'0NN
              N        N
                     QLN     C
                     OMeH      333               OMeH        334
                                                  N>- CO2Et
                       N
                         N                 NN
                       OH H    335      trans-rac            336
                        NN
          CN                                          N
                      Q~lNO                      Q    NflO
                       OMeH     337              OMeH        338
                 o N
                N K        N                       QN
                                339                OMbl        340
                ON                         O
                                           0N
                 0N
            N           NN                       N
                  OMbi          341           OMbI         342
                                    194

WO 2014/028829                                             PCT/US2013/055313
                           O
                   NN       N                      N N
                       OMl         343             OMbI        344
                  ON                             ON
                  WN                              N
           N'       N                          N   N
                   OMH             345            OMl        346
                    _Q'No
                    ON                           O9O-N
                         N                             N
                      OMl          347                   H      348
                    O-N
                      N
                    N     N
                               H        349
                           O-N
                             N
                       N   ZN N
                                 H     350
                     0-N                                O-N
                                                        ZDOH
                                                        N
                   NN
                            H           351
              352
                                           195

WO 2014/028829                                           PCT/US2013/055313
                   0
                N    O"-                           O-N
               N   N     N
                  NN.
                         O~H         ~O                        5
                               H355              O~H         35
                                        NN
                  N   --
                                            N   NN
                     O-N                      N
                             N                   OMeH
                             O-N
                        H                357       ira     358
               NN                                      N    O
                                                     OO
                  OMeH           35                             360
                                    196

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
               00
           YVON
             N
                     N
                OMl         361
                       ON
                         NN
                        OMbl           362
                  ON
                       H       363
                       ON
                   NN
                     NNY
                             H      364
                                   197

WO 2014/028829                    PCT/US2013/055313
                ON
                  QN
                 OMel     365
               NNN
                   OMel     366
                 N
                 &NQ
                    Hombi 367
                              368
                    N
                            198

WO 2014/028829                           PCT/US2013/055313
                  O   N
                     N
               N NO
                          H     369
                         O N
                           N
                         K)N
                              H     370
                  O N
               N NN
               .i-a      H OH
                  CIS-raC371
                        ON
                             HO
                             H       372
                                  199

WO 2014/028829                            PCT/US2013/055313
                     0
                 NKO
                 N1]N         NO
                            ON
              trans-rac
                                 373
                         -N
                             N
                 CIS-raC
                     O -N
                         N
                                   374
                          O-N
                            N
                cis-rac
                 cis-rac
                                      376
                                     200

WO 2014/028829                        PCT/US2013/055313
                     N 0
                       N
                   N     N
                cis-rac         377
                    CIS-raC     378
                      N
                      N
               N   NQN
                     O INH
                  cis-rac       379
                 N Z:N
                             NO
                       N
                         OMeH
                     cis-rac     380
                                  201

WO 2014/028829                                           PCT/US2013/055313
                  IN
             N N     &
                      H              381
                          N- 0
                            N
                        N     N
                            oMeH         382
               NN
             N N       N'
                  oMeH               383
                      QNC
                N    N N
                      OMeH
                  cis-rac          384
                                                 ON
                                                    N
                 O'                          N    N      3
            NN&J                                      OH
                     N                                OH
                       a~o                     trans-rac
                     H         385                            386
                                       202

WO 2014/028829                                    PCT/US2013/055313
                0 N                       ON
                  N                           N
                NNN#0
                                       N   &N'0
                      H       387               H      388
                                       N
                         ON~
                         H389            csrc          390
                ON       NC                N
                  OMeHO
                   CSrC       391     CSrC392
                    N
                    0 N                    N203
               N       N
                            H    r9 3

WO 2014/028829                                        PCT/US2013/055313
                N ON
                                               NN
            N                                N      N
                  O        395                      H      396
                  N                            ON
                   %N                            N
            N   N                         N         N
                      H    397                  OMeH      398
                NO                                  H
                  N                              Ne
            YN                           NN)   NN
                  O        399                      H     400
                0
                  NMe 2
            NNQNC
                  OMeH
               cis-rac     401
                        ON
                             N _OH
                             H        402
                                  204

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
             N   N    &      OH
                       H            403
                      0/N
                N I
                 0NC
                     6Me        404
                         H         406
             N N     {~N
               N   NN    N
                         N>LO
                         H             40 7
                   ON
                           H           40 7
                   NQO
                      ONN
                 CIS-raC             408
                                      205

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
          NN   N     N
                     NN'   O
                     H           409
                       O
                             H 410
                0
          N NI
                OMeH             411
                       N0
                            N OH
                   N   N
                             H   412
                  NO
                   N
                 NQN<N
                         H       413
                       NO
                         N
                            H     414
                                   206

WO 2014/028829                               PCT/US2013/055313
                  N0
                     N
               N      N N
                         H            415
                          N0
                              N
                     N
                          N
                                  H    416
                    NO
                      N
                            H         417
                            N0
                 Nrn<N
                                  HO
                         N
                                N
                                    H    418
                  N0
                     N
                   SN        CO
                          H
                  rac
                                      419
                       N  0
                          N
               N NI
                   N'NJNN
                                H     420
                                        207

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
                   O, N
                      N
                               OH
                          HON        421
                                  H    422
                                     OH
                         ,N
                          NN
                      N
                            N   OH
                            H        423
                             0
                       OLN     N
                          &         OH
                    O            H  O   424
       OH        Q    NO
                 OMeH
                     N
               I N, NN          42s
                          QNQ
                        OMeH         426
                                       208

WO 2014/028829                                         PCT/US2013/055313
                            NN          SHON                f
                N                               N
               NN                 N         N~          N      O
                N 0
                                                  N
                  OMeH        429                OMeH     430
                                                   NO
                  N                                 N
              NN N
                                               NN
                                                      H
                      &me     431                raC       432
                     &NN
              N .N
                         H43
                          N
                              H    434
                                    209

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
                 O'N
               NN               FF
                         H             435
                         N'O
                                     F
                     N N        N      F
                                H        436
                  N- 0
           Hf N            HO
                   N     HN   *
                           H           437
                      N      N
                         O~
                         N    O H       438
                   N    QN
                              0
                       N
                                 HO
                             &ND
                                   H      440
                                          210

WO 2014/028829                          PCT/US2013/055313
                 NN
               N    N&
                       H          441
                        N4N
                    N N
                               H    442
                   NN
                          N
                 N     H
                            aN
                           N
                           N
                              HO(
                    N    N
                         H     H    44
                                  445
                     N
                          H44
                        NO
                             H     446
                                    211

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
                      N
               N
                      N
                          H           447
                            N0
                              N
                      N   Na
                                   H    448
                    NO
                   N
                          N
                          H           449
                          NWO
                             N
                      N   N
                                 N
                     cis-raC     H   OH450
                       N
                NN&Q
                           H    OH
               cis-rac                451
                        N
                   N'N
                 N N IN      H
                               H      452
                                        212

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
                    NWO
                       N
                   N
                           N
                   rac     H           453
                                  N
                               H04
                    N    N&O
                           NQYO
                                H      45
                      NN
                        0N
                             H        45
             NN      N           N>
                          -N
                 N
                        N
                             H
               N     N       N      N
                                H      456
                                           213
                                H       460
                                           213

WO 2014/028829                                       PCT/US2013/055313
                                               NI:
                      N   -NH                    N O    N
                       rac             461
                                                   a           462
           -N  --       N
                        OMeH
               cis-rac                 463
                             &N0
               NNN
                               NN
                        N 0
                                  NN
                  cisHa             467                      6
                           N-0
           F              N~
                                   H       468
                                         214

WO 2014/028829                             PCT/US2013/055313
                     NO
       FN
                 N      N N
                           H        469
                           N
                           OMeH      470
                  N      N      N
                      N
               sI
                         N
                   N   NQN
                         OMeH      472
               NN N
                          N     J
                       H            473
               N    NN
                           NO
                                 H   474
                                       2H1
                                       215

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
                    N O
               F1      N
                         HO
                     N     NO
                           H47
               FN
                                 H        476
          F       O-N
                     N
               N  N~     NO
                         H           477
                         0
                      N  NaN       O
                               H        478
                   0
                     &N0
                          H          479
                          NWO
                             N
                               H        480
                                       216

WO 2014/028829                                     PCT/US2013/055313
                     N- 0
                        N
        F          N         N
                             H          481
                               0
                           N
               F
                       N
                                NN
                                   H     482
                    0
                    O
                             NJ
                      QNC
                       OMeH             483
                           0
                            o'N
                              OMeH       484
                       0
                     N
       F
             mr NN        HO
                           H            485
                            N0
                               N
               F
                       N    N
                                   Nx
                                   H     486
                       N                         o
        F    N                   0            NN
                      OMeH          487            H     488
                                          217

WO 2014/028829                                    PCT/US2013/055313
                     NO                     NO
           FN                           F    N0
                       NN
                     N     N              N     N    C
                           H      489            H      490
                    0-N
       F     N      N
                          H       491
                           ON
               F               N
                             oMeH   492
                    0 .N
                       N
       F         NN
                           H      493
                              N
               F        NN
                                    218

WO 2014/028829                              PCT/US2013/055313
                   N 0O
          XJI
            F N
                      N
                   ND N
                          N
                          H         495
                          O N
               F
                      N   Ni
                                  NN
                             OMeH   496
                  NNQNJQ
               IN                         F
            N    NN
                        H           499
                             N
                            OMeH      500
                                      219

WO 2014/028829                         PCT/US2013/055313
                NN
                          N
                          H      501
                      0, N
                         N
                NN'N
                        N
                         OMeH    502
                   N   0
                      I)>
                       N
        F     N
                           N'N
                           H     503
                           NO
                             N
                               H  504
           Fq-     N- 0    N
                      N
        F
                  NN&N
                     N N
                          H      505
                          N20
                               H  506
                                   220

WO 2014/028829                                    PCT/US2013/055313
                    N0
        FQ7       N DN
                         H         507
                         0 .N
                            OMeH    508
               0 -N                         N, 0
                                            I->
             NN                          FT N~~ N
                        H      509               H     510
                     N0
                        NO
                          H        511
                          N- 0
                               H   512
                                     221

WO 2014/028829                                          PCT/US2013/055313
                    N-O
                                     513
                              N
               F   NZQ N
                        ON
                             5MeH     514
                   0 .N
        F   Q    N    N    N
                        O-OH         515
                           N'   N
                      NQ
                                  H    516
                                               N    N
            N        N     O                        &NCN
                     ON                    F&ON
                       H         517                   H       518
               N   NNrN                          N
                   NNN                                 NO
                       OMeH          519           OMeH      520
                                       222

WO 2014/028829                                PCT/US2013/055313
               N N NF
                   OMeH                521
                   N      ON
                          N      Na
                             N
                       O N
                            6MeH          522
                    N'-  No
                                  N
                        N
                        ONO
                             H         523
                            N
                    NZ      N       N
                                    H    524
                     NaON
                         N
                               H       525
                 N     N
               F           N
                         N
                                 H    526
                                          223

WO 2014/028829                                 PCT/US2013/055313
                     O-N
           F
                        ON
               F NN
                        NN
                                >
                           NH         528
                            O-N
                            O-N
                                MH    529
                     NN
                        FNN
                    O)- OMeHO
                            N         53
                        NN
                             ON             N N
                   OMeH           531          H      532
                                        224

WO 2014/028829                                         PCT/US2013/055313
                     N   N
                           H            533
                           N     N
                 O     NN
                      NNO~e        5353453
                   O-N
                                                     N
                        OMe     H        537
           CH      N   NNN
                     OMeN          55H          53
                        O-N
                                   N
                             OMeH        538
                OMe
                            O                  OEt
               N       N NBr
                   OMeH                    3N8
           cis-rac                 539           OH H     540
                                           225

WO 2014/028829                                                                PCT/US2013/055313
                          O-N                                         0-N
                                                                          ' I)-
                            ;I)--
                            N                                            N
        CI          N
                                              N4N
                                                                       N         0        4
                                  H   i       541                       OH H            542
                 0-N
                      *-.                                       OMe
                    N                                  Br
            N    Q       'N                                   N N      N
                    OH H              543, or                     OH H            544,
      or any pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
              wherein rac denotes a racemic mixture, trans-rac denotes a ring trans
      compound as a racemic mixture, and cis-rac indicates a ring cis compound as a
      racemic mixture.
       13.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of any one of
      claims 1-12 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
       14.    A method of modulating a Kappa opioid receptor, comprising contacting
      the receptor with an effective amount or concentration of a compound of any one
      of claims 1-12.
       15.    The method of claim 14 wherein the Kappa opioid receptor is disposed
      within the living tissue of a human.
       16.    The method of claim 15 wherein the human is suffering from a dissociative
      disorder or pain.
       17.    A method of treatment of a dissociative disorder or pain in a patient in need
      thereof, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount or
      concentration of a compound of any one of claims 1-12 at a frequency and for a
      duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient.
                                                226

WO 2014/028829                                                               PCT/US2013/055313
       18.     A method of providing neuroprotection to a patient comprising
      administering to the patient an effective amount or concentration of a compound of
      any one of claims 1-12 at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial
      effect to the patient.
       19.     A method of modulating the immune system in a patient, comprising
      administering to the patient an effective amount or concentration of a compound of
      any one of claims 1-12 at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial
      effect to the patient.
      20.      A method of inducing diuresis in a patient, comprising administering to the
      patient an effective amount or concentration of a compound of any one of claims
       1-12 at a frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient.
      21.      A method of treating a condition in a human patient for which modulation
      of a kappa opioid receptor is medically indicated, comprising administering an
      effective amount or concentration of a compound of any one of claims 1-12 at a
      frequency and for a duration to provide a beneficial effect to the patient, wherein
      the condition comprises one or more of an affective disorders comprising
      depression or stress/anxiety; an addictive disorder; alcoholism, epilepsy; a
      cognition deficiency; schizophrenia; Alzheimer's disease; or pain.
      22.      The method of claim 21 wherein pain comprises visceral pain or acute post
      operative pain.
                                                227

