                                                   ABSTRACT
  A metal detector, including: a transmitter for transmitting a repeating sequence of transmit magnetic
  field, each of the sequence includes a period of changing or constant non-zero transmit magnetic field,
5 immediately followed by period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, immediately followed by a
  period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field; a receive coil; and a damping resistor;
  wherein an end of the receive coil is connected to one end of the damping resistor; and the other end of
  the damping resistor is connectable to a circuit with a variable parameter; wherein a signal is induced in
  the receive coil during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, and the signal induced in
0 the receive coil decays at least at a termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field;
  and wherein the variable parameter is controlled, at a selected time, to change from a parameter value
  to a different parameter value when the signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the
  period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more
  rapid than when such control of the variable parameter is absent.

              1/10
I_                 c
   r             c c
|       SI
    Coc    Dc

                     A SIGNAL PROCESSING TECHNIQUE FOR A METAL DETECTOR
PRIORITY DOCUMENTS
[0001] The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> titled "IMPROVEMENTS TO A METAL DETECTOR" and filed on 20 December 2016, the
content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] The present invention relates to metal detection.
BACKGROUND
[0003] A problem occurs in metal detection when searching a target using a time-domain metal
detector in an area including magnetic soils. Unwanted spurious processed signals arise when receive
demodulation occurs shortly after rapid changes in transmit magnetic fields transmitted by the metal
detector, during a time when there is near constant or zero transmit magnetic field by a transmitter of
the metal detector, for example, when a receive demodulation occurs very shortly after a transmit
back-emf period of a pulse induction type metal detector. As pulse induction metal detection
technology is known and relatively simple, henceforth in the text that follows, a pulse induction metal
detector will be used to assist in describing signal processing techniques for the purposes of simpler
communication for those skilled in the art. However, the signal processing techniques may be equally
applied to other technologies, for example those with very rapid reactive voltages transitions (high
second derivatives of the transmit magnetic field).
[0004] It is known that the sooner a receive demodulation commences after a back-emf period, the
capability for detecting short time-constant target of a detector can be improved. Examples of short
time-constant targets are landmines with minimal metal components and small gold nuggets. The
spurious signals arise when detecting in magnetic soils during the receive period of a pulse induction
detector following shortly after its transmit back-emf. This is because, for a detector with separate
receive coil from the transmit coil, the receive coil of the detector still has decaying signals induced in it
due to the transmit coil back-emf transients, and these induced signals are modulated by spatially
variable soil permeability, which is modulating the receive-transmit coil coupling as the coil passes over
soils of differing permeability.
                                                       1

[0005] While this specification mainly addresses metal detectors with magnetic antennas having
separate receive coil(s) from the transmit coil(s), it would be apparent from some embodiments
described herein that the techniques can be applied to mono-loop detectors.
[0006] For a detector with separate transmit and receive coils, such coils are usually arranged so that
the receive coil is in approximate "null" with respect to the transmit coil; in effect a (magnetic)
transformer but with very near zero coupling between the primary and secondary. This null or near zero
transformer coupling is altered by the presence of soils or targets, and in effect it is this change that is
detected when demodulation occurs usually during a receive period post the cessation of the back-emf
period in Pulse Induction (PI) or P-like detectors. The transmit period excites viscous superparamagnetic
soil particles to (temporarily) partially align with it. During the receive (post transmit) period, this viscous
remanence decays due to thermal effects. Further, the transmit signal also induces eddy currents in soil
conductive components such as conductive saline components. However, it is prior art, that both these
soils source signals (remnant viscous superparamagnetism decay and saline eddy current decay) may be
cancelled from a received processed output due to a selection of demodulation processing. However, an
exception is the said coupling of the transmit coil signal induced into the receive coil from varying
coupling of lossless reactive soil magnetic permeability. One technique for reducing this is given in
US20150035543 that discloses the advantages of implementing a negative capacitance generator that
partially increases the natural resonance of the receive coil taking distributed capacitance and
inductance into account. This invention is independent of whether such a negative capacitance
generator is used or not. Traditionally, designers have no option but to design the earliest
commencement of the receive demodulation following the back-emf as compromise between detecting
fast time constant targets and tolerable spurious soil induced signals from variable lossless reactive
magnetic permeability modulated signals inducing variable decaying transients from the back-emf signal
in the receive coil.
[0007] Other methods of reducing the time of these receive coil transients are given in US20120146647
and US20150168584 wherein the back-emf in the transmit coil is rapidly terminated rather than be
critically damped, but this invention offers an alternative regardless whether the methods of
US20120146647 and US20150168584 are employed or not.
                                                         2

SUMMARY
[0008] According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a metal detector, including:
a transmitter for transmitting a repeating sequence of transmit magnetic field, each of the sequence
includes a period of changing or constant non-zero transmit magnetic field, immediately followed by
period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, immediately followed by a period of substantially
constant or zero transmit magnetic field; a receive coil; and a damping resistor; wherein an end of the
receive coil is connected to one end of the damping resistor; and the other end of the damping resistor
is connectable to a circuit with a variable parameter; wherein a signal is induced in the receive coil
during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, and the signal induced in the receive coil
decays at least at a termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field; and wherein
the variable parameter is controlled, at a selected time, to change from a parameter value to a different
parameter value when the signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid
change of transmit magnetic field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when
such control of the variable parameter is absent.
[0009] In one form, the change of the variable parameter is effected by a switch, wherein the switch is
controlled to switch the other end of the damping resistor from a circuitry element to another when the
signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic
field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when such control of the switch is
absent.
[0010] In one form, the change of the variable parameter is effected by a DAC, wherein the DAC is
controlled to change an output of the DAC from one value to another when the signal induced in the
receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, such that the
rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when such control of the DAC is absent. In one form, the
control of the DAC is based on a signal from the receive coil.
[0011] In one form, the metal detector further includes a voltage source, wherein the voltage source is
connected to an end of the damping resistor opposite to the end connected to an end of the receive
coil, wherein the voltage source is controlled to reduce or eliminate an induced energy across the
receive coil during the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, the induced
energy caused by a detection of the transmit magnetic field by the receive coil during the period of rapid
                                                       3

change of transmit magnetic field; the control of the voltage source includes: changing a voltage value of
the voltage source from a first voltage to a fixed voltage at a first time or during a first time period
within the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, the first voltage is dependent on the
induced energy during at least a duration of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field; and
the first voltage and fixed voltage and first time or first time period are selected to increase the rate of
change of the decay.
[0012] In one form, an effective parallel inductance of the receive coil inductance of value L, and an
effective net parallel capacitance of the receive coil of value C,forms a parallel network consisting of L, C
and a parallel damping resistor of value R resistance, such that the parallel network is a substantially
critically damped network, and the values of the first voltage and fixed voltage, and values of the first
time or first time period are selected such that at least part of a receive signal in the receive coil in a
form        t       is substantially cancelled, following a commencement of the period of substantially
constant or zero transmit magnetic field or first time or first time period, whichever occurs later within
the repeating sequence.
[0013] In one form, the first voltage and the first time or first time period are selected so that an initial
voltage across the receive coil divided by an initial current flowing through the effective parallel
inductance of the receive coil is approximately -2R at the termination of the changing transmit magnetic
field when the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field commences.
[0014] In one form, the voltage source changes from the first voltage to a second voltage at the first
time or during the first time period relative to the commencement of the period of substantially
constant or zero transmit magnetic field; and wherein the voltage source changes from the second
voltage to the fixed voltage at a second time or during a second time period relative to the
commencement of the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, the second time
or second time period being after the first time or first time period, and wherein the second time or at
least part of the second time period occurs during at least part of the period of substantially constant or
zero transmit magnetic field, such that at least part of either or both the first voltage and the second
voltage are controlled by a signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid
change of transmit magnetic field.
                                                       4

[0015] In one form, only one of the first voltage and the second voltage are controlled by a signal
induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field,
and whichever of the first voltage or the second voltage not controlled by the signal induced in the
receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field is controlled by a
signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially constant or zero
transmit magnetic field.
[0016] In one form, the induced energy in the receive coil immediately following the second time or
second time period that results from a detection of the transmitted magnetic field induced in the
receive coil during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field is substantially zero.
[0017] In one form, the second voltage is controlled by a first negative loop with an input signal from
the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic
field.
[0018] In one form, at a first time or during a first time period, an impedance lower than the damping
resistor is applied across the receive coil and continues to be applied until a third time during the period
of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field.
[0019] In one form, at a first time or during a first time period, an impedance higher than the damping
resistor is applied across the receive coil and continues to be applied until a third time during the period
of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field.
[0020] In one form, the first voltage is controlled by a second negative loop with an input signal from
the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic
field.
[0021] In one form, part of the voltage source includes a switch for switching at least part of the
damping resistor to the first voltage, second voltage or the fixed voltage. In one form, part of the voltage
source includes a capacitor.
[0022] In one form, the damping resistor includes two resistors, a first resistor and a second resistor,
such that a net value of the first resistor and second resistor connected in parallel has a value equal to
                                                        5

that required for substantially critical damping of the receive coil or altered resistance away from critical
damping during the first period until the third time.
[0023] In one form, the first resistor is connected to the voltage source and the second resistor is
connected either to a fixed voltage or ground, or an open circuit, or a second voltage source that may
also be controlled by a signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the of rapid change of
transmit magnetic field.
[0024] In one form, the receive coil is effectively shorted for a fourth period during the period of
substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, or, immediately before the period of the period of
rapid change in magnetic field transmitted by a transmit coil. In one form, the receive coil is effectively
open circuit for a fifth period.
[0025] According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for increasing
a rate of decay of an induced signal in a receive coil of a metal detector due to a signal induced in a
transmit coil of the metal detector, wherein the signal is induced in the transmit coil during a period of
rapid change of transmit magnetic field when a period of changing transmit magnetic field transitions to
a period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, and wherein the induced signal in the
receive coil decays at least at the termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field,
the method including: connecting one end of the receive coil to one end of a damping resistor, with the
other end of the damping resistor connectable to a circuit with a variable parameter; and controlling the
variable parameter, at a selected time, to change from one to another different one when the signal
induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field,
such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when such control of the variable
parameter is absent.
[0026] According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a non-transitory
computer readable medium including instructions, when executed, to perform the method of the
second aspect.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0027] Embodiments of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the accompanying
drawings wherein:
                                                       6

[0028] Figure 1 shows an exemplary generalized block diagram for performing one embodiment of the
invention;
[0029] Figure 2 depicts parameters set to cancel the wt e-t term;
[0030] Figure 3 shows the standard critically damped receive response following a transmit coil reactive
voltage step as a long dashed curve, while the solid curve is for wte- nulled out;
[0031] Figure 4 shows example signal responses for the third embodiment;
[0032] Figure 5 shows example waveforms for the fourth embodiment;
[0033] Figure 6 shows waveforms when the damping resistor is open circuit for a brief period to
eliminate wt e- term;
[0034] Figure 7 shows waveforms when the Rx coil is shorted out to eliminate the stored charge in the
Rx coil capacitance following a brief period of no damping applied to the coil;
[0035] Figure 8 shows a set of exemplary waveforms when the damping resistor is temporarily altered
to being above that required for critical damping;
[0036] Figure 9 shows another set of exemplary waveforms when the damping resistor is temporarily
altered to being below that required for critical damping; and
[0037] Figure 10 depicts an alternative embodiment where the switches in Figure 1 are not required.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0038] In the context of this specification, unless stated otherwise, nulled coils refer to at least one
transmitter and one receiver where in the absence of any external elements, the receiver would receive
effectively no signal even when the transmitter is transmitting. This can be achieved, using Double D coil
as an example, by carefully positioning the two coils such that EM fields passing through the overlapping
coil portions of the receiver equals but in an opposite direction EM fields passing the non-overlapping
coil portions of the receiver.
                                                      7

[0039] In the context of this specification, unless stated otherwise, back electromotive force (or
back-emf) in a PI metal detector, is a period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when an EFHT
(extra high tension; e.g. 200V) voltage is induced across the transmit coil. This is manifest as a variable
induced signal in the receive coil when the coil passes over variable magnetically permeable material
such as magnetic soils. However, this invention applies equally to other P-like metal detector
technologies, such as those described in patents US20140232408 and US20110210740. These PI-like
technologies also employ a period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when an EHT (extra high
tension) voltage is applied across the transmit coil, and these periods are immediately followed by a
period of constant transmitted magnetic field when receive signal demodulation occurs. Thus, the
period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field henceforth will be referred to as such.
[0040] In the context of this specification, unless stated otherwise, critically damped, critical damping
refers to how an induced emf in the receive coil decays in response to a period of rapidly changing
transmit magnetic field. When a critical damping is applied, the induced receive signal reduces to zero in
a reduced time when compared to under-damping or over-damping, all other conditions being equal.
[0041] Unless stated otherwise, calculation in this specification assumes that the advantages of
effective instantaneous termination of a period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field is applied,
but it could be modified to include, for example, a slower transmit coil critically damped back-emf
decay.
[0042] In practice, the effects from a period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field induce in a
nulled coil a signal up to about a volt or two when the coil passes over the more extremely magnetically
permeable soils, but of course, this depends on the coil characteristics, the transmit voltages, the soil
permeability and proximity of the coil to the soil. Most of magnetic soil signals are from non-dissipative
magnetic materials, and usually referred to as the "in-phase" component or "p" or a reactive
component. For this component, the receive signal voltage mimics the shape of the transmit coil
reactive emf, but is convolved with the transfer function of the network consisting of an effective
parallel winding inductance and effective parallel capacitance and damping resistance of the receive
coil. It is this "LCR" receive coil network in which the induced transients from a period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field take time to decay which are pertinent to this invention. Any series
                                                        8

winding resistances cause only a small error to this model. It is well known that for critical damping
R = 0.5        The self-resonance without the critical damping is o    =       .
[0043] Further, unless stated otherwise, in all the mathematical calculation that follows, we assume
that the transmit coil has a constant reactive EHT voltage applied across it during a period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field and this voltage is forced to terminate effectively "instantly," and that
this period duration of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field period is >> 1/w. Also for the sake of
simplicity of understanding, we assume that the soil has considerably more non-dissipative reactive
permeability than the soil resistive viscous remnant magnetism (VRM) or saline components, and that
signals from EMI, and induced relatively "DC-like" low frequencies voltages from the coil movement
relative to environmental static magnetic fields, or, input electronics DC offsets or 1/f noise, are all
effectively absent. In reality, these ignored signals do typically detract from the advantages of this
invention, but in the soils where the advantages of this invention play a significant role, that is, in the
more magnetically permeable soils, the receive signal induced from the soil during a period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field usually dominates other spurious signals. For each embodiment,
assume that each and every period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field is closely approximately
the same, and the illustrated waveforms and associated mathematics applies and repeats for each and
every such period.
[0044] For each period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field with a transmit coil having an
"instantly" abrupt EHT termination, the receive induced emf is modelled in series with a receive coil
effective parallel inductance L and is a voltage step from "X" volts to OV when time "t=0," and called "X"
in the following mathematics, wherein X can be due to variable coupling with the soil, the principal
concern of this invention, or, direct transmit coil to receive coil coupling.
[0045] Let the received instantaneous voltage across the modelled receive coil capacitance C be "v"
and the current flowing through the modelled inductance L be "i". If the induced voltage during the
period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field is modelled as a voltage "X" is series with a modelled
inductance L, with X terminating as a step to OV at t=0, then a signal induced in the receive coil decays
at the termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field as sv = (1 + aot)e-)t
ignoring all other signal components other than X. The ote-ot is the main cause of the persisting
decaying transients following theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field. Thus eliminating
                                                       9

this term will substantially reduce the problem. Thereafter reducing the e--'       term provides yet better
results.
[0046] In one embodiment, a metal detector includes a transmitter for transmitting a repeating
sequence of transmit magnetic field, each of the sequence includes a period of changing or constant
non-zero transmit magnetic field, immediately followed by period of rapid change of transmit magnetic
field, immediately followed by a period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field.
[0047] An embodiment of this invention switches a damping resistor momentarily to differing circuitry
during the back-emf which causes the back-emf induced signal in a receive coil to commence more rapid
decay compared to the conventional critically damped "LCR" decay following the period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field.
[0048] In another embodiment, a ratio of a signal (X) measured in the receive coil during the period of
rapidly changing transmit magnetic field is fed-forward, that is, measuring a receive signal during the
period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, of a "first voltage value," and a applying a proportion
of this in series with the damping resistor. The first voltage value must at least be applied during some
of period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, or, when the signal induced in the receive coil
decays following the termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field.
[0049] In another embodiment, the metal detector further includes a voltage source, wherein the
voltage source is connected to an end of the damping resistor opposite to thend connected to an end of
the receive coil, wherein the voltage source is controlled to reduce or eliminate an induced energy
across the receive coil during the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, the
induced energy caused by a detection of the transmit magnetic field by the receive coil during the
period of changing magnetic field; the control of the voltage source includes: changing a voltage value of
the voltage source from a first voltage to a fixed voltage at a first time or during a first time period
within the period of changing magnetic field, the first voltage is dependent on the induced energy
during at least a duration of the at least one period of changing transmit magnetic field; and the first
voltage and fixed voltage and first time or first time period are selected to increase the rate of change of
the decay.
                                                       10

[0050] This invention in effect increases the rate of decay of the signal induced in the receive coil at the
termination of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field. To achieve this, one can rely on
knowledge of when the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field terminates, or, by using an
input sampling negative feedback loop of the receive signal from the receive coil.
[0051] Figure 1 shows an exemplary generalized block diagram for performing one embodiment of the
invention. In this Figure 1, the circuit has a system ground 1. The whole receive coil is modelled as a
parallel "ideal" inductor 2 of value L (Henrys), in parallel with a capacitance 4 of value C (Farads)
consisting of the self-capacitance of the windings of the receive coil "ideal" inductor 2, the capacitance
of cable(s) connecting the receive coil to the electronics, an input capacitance of preamplifier 41 and a
parallel switch 3. The current i (Amps) flowing through inductor 2 is shown in the sense indicated by the
arrow at 18. The voltage across capacitance 4 relative to the system ground 1 at node 7 is of value "v".
The received induced voltage signal during a P-like transmit period of rapidly changing transmit
magnetic field is modeled as voltage source "X" 19 in series with inductor 2. A switch 3 may
approximately short-circuit the capacitance 4 (node 7) to the system ground 1. This action is controlled
by a metal detector timing generator 10 via line 12. Node 7 is connected to a resistor 5 of value R
(Ohms) which is connected to switch 9. Switch 9 may be controlled to switch resistor 5 to the system
ground 1, or, to capacitor 17 of value "Cl" (Farads), or, to an output 16 of a buffer amplifier 15 of gain G.
One end of capacitance 17 is connected to the system ground 1, and the other to node 6 which is
connected to the switch 9 and an input to the buffer amplifier 15. Resistor 5 acts as a damping resistor.
In conjunction with resistor 8 of value R1 (Ohms), the damping may be altered depending on whether
resistor 8 is switched to the system ground 1 via switch 14 or not. Switch 14 is controlled by the metal
detector timing generator 10 via lines 13, while switch 9 is controlled via lines 11. Switch 14 also may
also switch resistor 8 to open circuit, or to the output of buffer amplifier 15.
[0052] Transmit coil 20 is connected to node 22, which in turn is connected to a switch 25 via diode 21
at node 26, and switch 25 may switch node 26 to the system ground 1 by a control line 38 generated in
the metal detector timing generator 10. A transmit back-emf voltage (period of rapidly changing
transmit magnetic field) at node 26 is clamped via diode 23 to an EHT (Extra High Tension) voltage of
source 24, which is connected to the system ground 1. Another end of transmit coil 20 is connected to a
switch 35, which may be switched to the system ground 1, or, to a voltage source 36 of voltage "Y"
which is also connected to the system ground 1. Switch 35 is controlled by a signal at line 37 generated
                                                       11

in the metal detector timing generator 10. Resistor 30 is connected between node 22 and the system
ground 1 via switch 29. Switch 29 is controlled by a signal at line 39 generated in the metal detector
timing generator 10. A T/R switch 31 controlled by a signal at line 32 generated in the metal detector
timing generator 10, connects node 22 to an input of an amplifier 34 at node 50, which is also connected
to the system ground 1 via resistor 33. An output 40 of amplifier 34 is fed to an input of the metal
detector timing generator 10. The action of the transmit electronics consisting of transmit coil 20,
switches 25 and 35 and T/R switch 31, the metal detector timing generator 10, diodes 21 and 23, voltage
sources 36 and 24, resistors 30 and 33, and amplifier 34 act to clamp the back-emf and also to control a
rapid termination of the transmitted magnetic field at the termination of a P1-like period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field. Examples describing this circuit action can be found, for example, in
US20120146647 and US20150168584.
[0053] An output 42 of the preamplifier 41 is connected to further receive processing in block 43 such
as receive demodulation and filtering, ground balancing, and/or discrimination action. Block 43 feeds a
system indicator output 44. Block 43 may receive control signals 51 from the metal detector timing
generator 10.
[0054] In most embodiments described herein, not all elements in Figure 1 are required, but they are
shown in Figure 1 for efficiency of comprehension.
[0055] For ease of discussion, the following values are assumed for all embodiments unless otherwise
stated: X=1 (variable), L=0.3mH (can be modulated in value by the soil permeability, but fixed
otherwise), resonant frequency = 500kHz, C= 337.74pF (which also may be modulated by the soil as the
inductance is modulated), R for critical damping =0.5JIc = 471.24 Ohms (for example, the E12
standard 470 Ohms), w =          = 3.1416Mrads/sec. Assume that no negative capacitance generator is
                             Wc
applied to the receive coil as described in US20150035543 which if applied would act to reduce yet
further the rate of decay of the X component induced in the receive coil post the period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field. A reasonable value for C1 is high enough to low-pass filter the receive
coil induced X from the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field (several microseconds), but
having a fast enough time constant set by Rtimes C1 to track X without noticeable phase lag (time
constant of the order of say a 0.1ms). Assume the duration of the period of rapidly changing transmit
magnetic field >> 1/w. Thus for example, if R is of the order of 500 Ohms, and C1 roundabout say 22nF,
                                                      12

then Rtimes C1=11is. Because C1>>C, the LCR network consisting of resistor 5, inductor 2, and
capacitors 4 and 17, behaves as though the damping is approximately unchanged when resistor 5 is
switched to a "voltage source" formed by the stored voltage across capacitor 17 of voltage X during (at
least some of) the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when switch 9 switches resistor 5
to capacitor 17, compared to if the "voltage source" were instead an "ideal zero output impedance"
source.
[0056] In a first embodiment, neither buffer amplifier 15, nor switch 14 plus resistor 8 are employed.
Assuming that the input impedance of preamplifier 41 is effectively "infinite", switch 3 is open, X is
changing, and switch 9 selects node 6 only during the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field,
or at least is switched to node 6 until the termination of the period of rapidly changing transmit
magnetic field for a sampling period >>1/w within theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field,
but alternatively switched to the system ground 1 at all other times, then i is approximately zero during
most of the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, and hence approximately zero at the
termination of the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field. Hence the voltage at node 6 is
equal to X. This is because capacitor 17 is charged up to approximately X (via the action of switch 9) and
thus approximately no voltage resides across the resistor during the capacitor 17 "sampling period"
which for this embodiment is the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when the induced
receive voltage signal 19 =X, and therefore i during this sampling period is approximately zero, or at
least is at the termination of theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field. If however at the
termination of the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when X abruptly transitions to OV,
switch 3 is briefly switched on to short circuit capacitor 4, then thereafter all the energy (from induced
X) in the receive coil is discharged (both i and v=0). However, in reality, switching a solid-state switch
such as switches 3 and 9 produce charge injection into the LCR analogue circuit. This can be
compensated for by either switching switch 9 from node 6 to the system ground 1, and switching switch
3 from open to the system ground 1, slightly before, or slightly after the termination of the period of
rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, depending on the effect of the magnitude and sign of the said
charge injection, so as to compensate for the charge injection. The said switching slightly before will
cause i to be slightly negative at the termination of theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic
field, whereas switching slightly after will cause i to be slightly positive, at the termination of the period
of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field. This method thus removes almost all the energy in the
receive coil following theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field.
                                                       13

[0057] In a second embodiment, switch 3 is not employed. The aim of the second embodiment is to
remove the (ote-(')tterm but retain e-It. The damping resistor is switched to a voltage source during
most of the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, and in this case the said damping resistor
is split between resistor 8 and resistor 5, with resistor 5 being switched to capacitor 17 (with X volts
across it), and resistor 8 being switched to the output of the buffer amplifier 15. Thus the effective
damping resistor's value is R in parallel with R1, and this effective damping resistor is connected to u
(volts) of effective value, a first voltage, u = xR1+GR). Shortly before the end of the period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field at a first time/first time period "t=-d", wherein the abrupt termination
of the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field is at time t=0, the effective damping resistor is
switched to the system ground 1, via both switches 9 and 14 being controlled to select the system
ground 1.
[0058] Figure 2 shows the signals for this situation with parameters set to cancel the Wte-"t term:
a) Just before a first time t< -0.08is (=d), the voltage v across the coil (node 7) = X = 1, and the current i
at 18 flowing through inductor 2 is i = u-X
                                            RI Ri'
b) During the first time period, between -0.08ps<t< Ops:
  v = -2uot ' e-'t + X, i =             - (1+ wt' )e-t'      -x      where'    =  0 begins at t = -0.08pts
                                     Reff                      Reff
and Reff =      R1R   ; and
c) After the first time period, t => Ois, the condition for the removal of the aote-Wt term is that
u = 0.5Xe d, and when this condition is chosen,
v = X[1 - cod]e-'t, i          _    (1 -  od)]e-t, and hence     7  = -2R when t = 0 (for the current
convention indicated in Figure 1).
[0059] For the example shown in Figure 2, u=0.6429X, d=0.08pts. Alternatively, if u=X, then d        -        =
0.22ps, or, if d=0, then u=X/2, for example the latter when R=R1= double the value of the critical
damping resistor and G=0.
[0060] Figure 3 shows the standard critically damped receive response following a transmit coil reactive
voltage step as a long dashed curve, while the solid curve is for wt e-" nulled out, when u=X=1,
                                                       14

wd=ln(2)=0.693. Until 4.5lis, the graphs are multiplied by 1, between 4.5is and 6.5is by 100,000, and
after 6.5ps by 109 for which the standard critical damping response is mostly off scale. The dotted curve
is for an "optimal" setting for which there is a very tiny fraction wt eut term, but with a negative
contribution in order to slightly negate the e-wt term at periods longer than several microseconds, and
for this condition, for example, u=X=1 and wd=0.68.
[0061] A third embodiment shows a method to completely cancel both the voltage and current decays
using two different voltage source values. During theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field,
a voltage u is applied in series with the effective damping resistor as in the second embodiment, until a
first time t=-d when a voltage z applied in series with effective damping resistor takes over, and at a
second time t=h, the effective damping resistor is switched to the system ground 1, which is when both
the voltage across the coil and the current through inductor 4 becomes simultaneously 0, which means
the energy stored in the coil thereafter is zero, so the decay signal from the signal induced in the receive
coil during the period of approximately constant transmitted magnetic field disappears after t=h. This
also does not employ the shorting switch 3. This is achieved by selection of the resistors 5 and 8, d and
h, and G of amplifier 15.
[0062] Figure 4 shows example signal responses for the third embodiment. In particular, as can be
observed:
a) When t<-d, X=1, v=X, i=(u-X)/R;
b) During a first time period, between -d<t<0, v = 2(z - u)o&t' e-            + X, and i =        [(u - z)(1 +
                                                                                            Reff
wt' )e-t'         + z - X], where t'=t+d; and
c) Between 0<t<h, v = {2(z - u)wde-"d + X + [X + 2(z - u)e-od]Otje-Wt
and i =    2
               1 t2z - v - [X + 2(z - u)e-d]e-t)
             Reff
[0063] To make both the voltage across the receive coil at node 7, and the current flowing through
                                                                                                         a(1+ch)
inductor 2 = 0 at the second time when t=h, select values (d, h, u, z) so that z    = 2O(d+h)ue-d
                                                                                           2 o(d+ h) e-O
and u =      tX(1+wh/2)+z[1+w(d +h)]e   d}e - -z  and as no external voltage X is induced in the Rx coil for
t>h (h>0), no energy is left in the coil to cause a decay (ignoring the sources such as VRM, EMI, rate of
change of static magnetic fields as already stated). The example Figure 4 of this third embodiment has
d=0.08is, h=0.5pts, u=0.8643X, z=-0.04271X selected.
                                                       15

[0064] Alternatively, the signal at the output 42 of preamplifier 41 can be measured immediately or
shortly after t=h, and this is fed to an input of a negative feedback loop within the timing and processing
electronics 43 and metal detector timing generator 10 to control z (or u, or d) to minimize the residue
decay signal after t=h. Further, similarly, this feedback loop may be applied to the first or second or third
embodiment.
[0065] A fourth embodiment, similar to the third embodiment, sets both voltage across the receive
inductor 2 and the current flowing though inductor 2 = 0 at t=h, but uses a momentary short circuit from
switch 3 to force v to 0 at t=h (by discharging the capacitor 4) when the current through inductor 4
reaches 0.
[0066] Figure 5 shows example waveforms for the fourth embodiment. For this example, u=1.005X,
d=160ns, the Rx coil is short circuited at t=h=250ns just as i reaches 0. The following are calculated:
a) At time < -160ns: v across the coil = X = 1, the current i flowing through inductor 2 at node 18 is i=
tL-X
Reff'                   u-x
b) Between -d= -160ns<t0ps:       v = -2uot ' e-"         + X, i =u
                                                                    Reff
                                                                         (1 + wt ' )e--        x where the
                                                                                                R
variable "t" in this equation commences when t=-0.160 ps;
c) After t > Ops, if u = O.5Xe'd, v = X - 2uode-'d + (X - 2ue-d)wt]e-t
and i =
           R
             1u(+
                     e
                       wd)e -d
                         ff
                                   - X +
                                    L
                                          (ue-co   -
                                                      2/
                                                          cot ewt and if at t = h, u =
                                                             1
                                                                                             x(l+O.Swh)
                                                                                          [1+&(d+f)]ed11
then i=0 so the magnetic field energy in the coil is zero at t=h, at which time the coil is shorted out to
remove the voltage (v) across the capacitance 4, leaving no energy left in the coil to decay, the second
time h in the Figure 5 being shown at h=0.25ps.
[0067] Alternatively, this becomes the first embodiment, if u=X and d=h=0, and immediately after t=0,
switch 3 momentarily shorted out capacitor 4 (so v=0). However, the fact that all semiconductor
switches have real resistances and part of energy stored in capacitance 5 is distributed within the
inductive windings of the Rx coil 2, means that the short circuit is not in fact literally a short circuit, and
thus the back-emf transient "decay" is thus not completely absent under these conditions. Thus, it is
better to measure the signal at the output 42 of preamplifier 41 immediately or shortly after the brief
period of short circuit, and feed this to an input of a negative feedback loop within the timing and
                                                         16

processing electronics 43 to control u (or d) to minimize the residue decay signal after the brief period of
the short circuit.
[0068] In a fifth embodiment, because the back-emf period>> 1/w, when t=0 with the standard
configuration of a "passive LCR" coil receiver, the relationship between v and i is known during the
period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field and therefore at t=0, namely, v=X, i=-X/Reff. This
embodiment does not employ switch 9, nor resistor 5 or the buffer amplifier 15.
[0069] If at a first time at t=0, the damping resistor 8 is open circuited (via switch 14), or floated, then
                                                                                     arctan()
the coil will be underdamped and ring. For this open circuit condition, at t =                ,   - = -2R, and
this is the condition to cancel the ote-ot term, and if resistor 8 is then switched back to the system
ground 1, the decaying signal only has the e-"t term. For the values of w used in these examples (10 6 7
radians per second), then the period for which resistor 8 is floating is between t=0 and t=0.1is, in order
to remove the Wte-t term. Similarly, the resistor may be switched out of the circuit for an
appropriate period a little before or after t=0. For example, as per the second embodiment, if the
resistor is switched open circuit at a first time t=-d, then at t=0,
v = X(2 sin &d + 1), i     = -       cos od, and hence for    7  = - 2 Reff, 2 sin od + 1 = 2 cos wd, for
                                ReffI
which if at t=0 (or t=2nT/w) the effective damping resistor is again switched to the system ground 1,
then the cote-(t term is absent. In the example resonant frequency given here, d=0.135p1s. But
if d < 0.135ps, then at t = CO  1tan-1{[2 cos od -       1 sin wd]/[ 2 cos wd + 2 sin wd]}, the effective
                                                       RcoC
damping resistor is again switched into the circuit to the system ground 1, then the wte-t term is
absent. For example, the dampening resistor 8 may be switched to open circuit between t=-0.08 and
t=h=0.04lps. The following is calculated:
a) Between t=-0.08pts (d=0.08is) and t=0is,      =  X[1 + 2 sin a (t + 0.08)], i = -     cos o (t + 0.08)
                                                                                       R
b) Between t=0 and t=h=0.04is:
v=X[2 sin wt + (1 + 2sin wd) cos wt], i = x [(sin od + ')sin at - cos cod cos ot].
Thereafter normal critical damping is resumed and the ote-t term is absent.
                                                        17

[0070] Alternatively, the damping resistor may be open circuited for a brief period, then when the
current i reaches 0, the Rx coil is shorted out to eliminate the stored charge in the Rx coil capacitance.
This is shown in Figure 6. When the dotted line is 1, damping resistor 8 is switched to the system ground
1, when the dotted line is 0, resistor 8 is open circuited.
[0071] The examples of a sixth embodiment consist of having periods of altered critical damping to
under or over damping, but not short circuit nor open circuit, and wherein at least part of either periods
of critical and/or under and/or over damping may have the parallel effective resistor connected
momentarily to a voltage source of a first voltage of value u proportional to received X during the period
of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field.
[0072] As shown in Figure 8, in relation to a period of underdamping: until t=d=-0.25lps, the effective
damping resistor is either of value p = 4900 or critical damped (470 Ohms), and for -0.25lps<t<1ps, the
resistor is switched to underdamp at 4900 and switched to the system ground 1, and for t>lps,
switched back to critical damping with 471.240 (4700). The effective damping resistor (490 or 4700) is
connected in series with u=X=1 during the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field until
t=-0.25ps (e.g. resistor 5 = 4900 and resistor 8=11.5k[, and switch 14 is switch open until t=lps, when it
then switches to the system ground 1, and switch 9 selects node 6 until t=-0.16is, and thereafter the
system ground 1). The following is calculated:
a) For -0.25is<t<0; when p=490 and no longer switched to be in series with u=X=1,
                       X       2
                                t'/                     X                    sin(mt)        t'
               v =-         e    p sin(mt') + X, i =-{[cos(mt ')+                      ] e 2pC1}
                     pmc                                 p                     2pmc
where m      =    z _ (fi)2
                        2pc
                                where t' commences at t=-0.25ps;
b) When t=0, vo, the initial voltage across the coil, and io, the initial current i through the modelled
inductor 2, are for the above equations at t'=d=0.25is;
c) For O<t<1is, v = [vo cos(mt) - -1 Q(-+ io) sin(mt)]e              ,
 i ={io cos(mt) + [          (+     io) + vomc] sin(mt)}e    2pC.
                                                       18

d) For t>lis, conventional damping is resumed with the initial v(1lis) and i(l1 is) values of the above
equations. As can be seen from Figure 8, the value of both v and i are near zero at about 1.6ps
compared to the conventional decay critical damping.
[0073] As shown in Figure 9, in relation to a period of overdamping: Until t=-0.16is, the effective
damping resistor is either of value p = 4080 or critical damped (4700) with u=1, and for -0.16ps<t<1ps,
the effective damping resistor is switched to overdamp at 4080 with this resistor switched to the system
ground 1, and t>lis, switched back to conventional critical damping with R=471.241. The effective
damping resistor is connected in series with u=X=1 during the period of rapidly changing transmit
magnetic field until t=-0.16is. For example, resistor 5 = 470M and resistor 8=3.09kQ, and switch 14 is
switched to open until t=-0.16is, when it then switches to the system ground 1, and after t=llis, returns
to open circuit, and, switch 9 selects node 6 until t=-0.16is, and thereafter the system ground 1.
[0074] For these conditions the following is calculated:
a) For -0. 16lis<t<0, when p=4080 and is no longer switched to be in series with u=X=1,
         =    -        t~x
                       C                                     /      1 'mt          '      1              C~
                                                                                                       2
  v =-               e Pc(emt'      _e-mt') +X,      i =-{[ 1+            emt   +    1-      e-m   ' e   pC
          2pmc                                          p         2pmc)                 2pmc
where    =     (ffi)2
b) When t=0, vo and io are for the above equations with t'=d=0.16is;
c) For 0<t<lis,
                                 t
                              e 2pc1                                         1
                        V  =         {[V (mc - -) - ia] emt + vo (mc +           + io je-mt
                               2mc 1.\           2p/                        2pl
  = {-    L+       2p      v]k(mc  -      - io ]emt+1[1 -      1][vO (mc +      )+ io]e-mtje-c
d) For t>lis, conventional damping is resumed with the initial v(lis) and i(l1 is) values of the above
equations. Again as can be seen, the value of both v and i are near zero at about 1ls compared to the
conventional decay critical damping.
                                                          19

[0075] This sixth embodiment is different from a mono-loop having a T/R switch active to facilitate
rapid decay. A mono-loop having a T/R switch active for rapid decay essentially uses a T/R switch as an
active element in that rapid decay, whereas conventional PI T/R switches are only switched on when the
back-emf has died down to about a volt or so. In contrast, the sixth embodiment herein could be used
with a nulled coil or a mono-loop with a conventional T/R switch with altered values of damping resistor
switched in and out during the back-emf decay. Thus, this does not employ the T/R switch to actively
decrease the transmit coil back-emf decay period in a mono-loop coil.
[0076] A seventh embodiment includes various combinations of the other embodiments, including for
example, non-linear damping. This may also include constant current sources that may change value for
different periods, or changing value of resistors by switching in different valued resistors across the
receive coil (some possibly causing under-damped or others possibly causing over-damped conditions
for various periods), to either null out the wote-  t term, or reduce both v and i to zero simultaneously.
Different negative feedback loops may be usefully employed similar to those described in the other
embodiments.
[0077] Note that any of the mathematics may be altered to take account of the finite length ofperiod of
rapidly changing transmit magnetic field.
[0078] Immediately following theperiod of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, usually a
significant VRM signal is present from magnetic soils, and quite often a signal from soil saline
components too. It is well-known that these can be measured. These are also present during the period
of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field when X is measured and this may cause inaccuracies in
measuring X, but this may be rectified. Further, if the said feedback loops are employed, the VRM
and/or saline signals may interfere with the measurements of the input signals to the negative feedback
loops that are only intended to reduce or eliminate the receive coil "X-decay" following aperiod of
rapidly changing transmit magnetic field . Hence, a proportion of both the measured receive VRM and
saline components may be subtracted from the input signals to negative feedback loop in order to
remove their effects in reducing (or minimizing) the transient decaying "X" signals from the period of
rapidly changing transmit magnetic field in the receive coil.
[0079] Figure 10 depicts an alternative block diagram where the switches 9, 14 in Figure 1 are not
required. This embodiment can replicate other embodiments described herein where the switches 9, 14
                                                      20

are required. To replicate these other embodiments, there is provided a receive coil 101, a switched
source 103 modelling the received induced voltage signal during a PI-like transmit period of rapidly
changing transmit magnetic field, system ground 105, capacitor 107, buffer 113, DAC 115, ADC 117,
processor 121, damping resistor 111, preamplifier 123, and output 125. The ADC 117 samples the
voltage "X" both during the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field and the period of time
following the period of rapidly changing transmit magnetic field, as required. The signal from the ADC is
processed by the processor 121 and applied to the DAC 115 to generate the output voltage "u". This
voltage takes values related to "X" or "0" (ground) starting at various moments in time such as "-d' or "h"
or any other time. This way, the alternative block diagram fulfills the mathematical equations of the
previous embodiments, which it attempts to replicate. In one form, the damping resistor 111 is
implemented through a digital potentiometer controlled by the processor 121. In such a case, one end
of the digital potentiometer is connected to one end of the receive coil 101 and the other end of the
digital potentiometer and the wiper of the digital potentiometer are connected to DAC 115. This way,
the value of the damping resistor 111 may be controlled by the processor 121, for example to under
damp, critically damp or over damp the circuit.
[0080] The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described
method.     The method steps and/or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing
from the scope of the claims.    In other words, unless a specific order of steps or actions is specified, the
order and/or use of specific steps and/or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of
the claims.
[0081] The system may be a computer implemented system comprising of a display device, a processor
and a memory and an input device. The memory may comprise instructions to cause the processor to
execute a method described herein. The processor memory and display device may be included in a
standard computing device, such as a desktop computer, a portable computing device such as a laptop
computer or tablet, or they may be included in a customised device or system. The computing device
may be a unitary computing or programmable device, or a distributed device comprising several
components operatively (or functionally) connected via wired or wireless connections. An embodiment
of a computing device comprises a central processing unit (CPU), a memory, a display apparatus, and
may include an input device such as keyboard, mouse, etc. The CPU comprises an Input/Output
Interface, an Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU) and a Control Unit and Program Counter element which is
                                                     21

in communication with input and output devices (eg input device and display apparatus) through the
Input/Output Interface. The Input/Output Interface may comprise a network interface and/or
communications module for communicating with an equivalent communications module in another
device using a predefined communications protocol (e.g. Bluetooth, Zigbee, IEEE 802.15, IEEE 802.11,
TCP/IP, UDP, etc). A graphical processing unit (GPU) may also be included. The display apparatus may
comprise a flat screen display (eg LCD, LED, plasma, touch screen, etc), a projector, CRT, etc. The
computing device may comprise a single CPU (core) or multiple CPU's (multiple core), or multiple
processors. The computing device may use a parallel processor, a vector processor, or be a distributed
computing device. The memory is operatively coupled to the processor(s) and may comprise RAM and
ROM components, and may be provided within or external to the device. The memory may be used to
store the operating system and additional software modules or instructions. The processor(s) may be
configured to load and executed the software modules or instructions stored in the memory.
[0082] Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires otherwise,
the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as "comprising" and "including" will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
[0083] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
[0084] It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted in its use to
the particular application described. Neither is the present invention restricted in its preferred
embodiment with regard to the particular elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will
be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed, but is
capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the
scope of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims.
[0085] Please note that the following claims are provisional claims only, and are provided as examples
of possible claims and are not intended to limit the scope of what may be claimed in any future patent
applications based on the present application. Integers may be added to or omitted from the example
claims at a later date so as to further define or re-define the invention.
                                                      22

Claims
1. A metal detector, including:
         a transmitter for transmitting a repeating sequence of transmit magnetic field, each of the
sequence includes a period of changing or constant non-zero transmit magnetic field, immediately
followed by period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, immediately followed by a period of
substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field;
         a receive coil; and
         a damping resistor;
         wherein an end of the receive coil is connected to one end of the damping resistor; and the
other end of the damping resistor is connectable to a circuit with a variable parameter;
         wherein a signal is induced in the receive coil during the period of rapid change of transmit
magnetic field, and the signal induced in the receive coil decays at least at a termination of the period of
rapid change of transmit magnetic field; and
         wherein the variable parameter is controlled, at a selected time, to change from a parameter
value to a different parameter value when the signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during
the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more
rapid than when such control of the variable parameter is absent.
2. A metal detector according to claim 1, wherein the change of the variable parameter is effected by a
switch, wherein the switch is controlled to switch the other end of the damping resistor from a circuitry
element to another when the signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid
change of transmit magnetic field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when
such control of the switch is absent.
3. A metal detector according to claim 1, wherein the change of the variable parameter is effected by a
DAC, wherein the DAC is controlled to change an output of the DAC from one value to another when the
signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic
field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when such control of the DAC is
absent.
4. A metal detector according to claim 3, wherein the control of the DAC is based on a signal from the
receive coil.
                                                      23

5. A metal detector according to claim 2, further including a voltage source, wherein the voltage source
is connected to an end of the damping resistor opposite to the end connected to an end of the receive
coil, wherein the voltage source is controlled to reduce or eliminate an induced energy across the
receive coil during the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, the induced
energy caused by a detection of the transmit magnetic field by the receive coil during the period of rapid
change of transmit magnetic field; the control of the voltage source includes:
         a) changing a voltage value of the voltage source from a first voltage to a fixed voltage at a first
             time or during a first time period within the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic
             field, the first voltage is dependent on the induced energy during at least a duration of the
             period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field; and
         b) the first voltage and fixed voltage and first time or first time period are selected to increase
             the rate of change of the decay.
6. A metal detector according to claim 5, wherein an effective parallel inductance of the receive coil
inductance of value L, and an effective net parallel capacitance of the receive coil of value C,forms a
parallel network consisting of L, C and a parallel damping resistor of value R resistance, such that the
parallel network is a substantially critically damped network, and the values of the first voltage and fixed
voltage, and values of the first time or first time period are selected such that at least part of a receive
signal in the receive coil in a form       t       is substantially cancelled, following a commencement of
the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field or first time or first time period,
whichever occurs later within the repeating sequence.
7. A metal detector according to claim 6, wherein the first voltage and the first time or first time period
are selected so that an initial voltage across the receive coil divided by an initial current flowing through
the effective parallel inductance of the receive coil is approximately -2R at the termination of the
changing transmit magnetic field when the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic
field commences.
8. A metal detector according to claim 5, wherein the voltage source changes from the first voltage to a
second voltage at the first time or during the first time period relative to the commencement of the
period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field; and
                                                       24

          wherein the voltage source changes from the second voltage to the fixed voltage at a second
time or during a second time period relative to the commencement of the period of substantially
constant or zero transmit magnetic field, the second time or second time period being after the first
time or first time period, and wherein the second time or at least part of the second time period occurs
during at least part of the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, such that at
least part of either or both the first voltage and the second voltage are controlled by a signal induced in
the receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field.
9. A metal detector according to claim 8, wherein only one of the first voltage and the second voltage
are controlled by a signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid change of
transmit magnetic field, and whichever of the first voltage or the second voltage not controlled by the
signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic
field is controlled by a signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially
constant or zero transmit magnetic field.
10. A metal detector according to claim 8, wherein the induced energy in the receive coil immediately
following the second time or second time period that results from a detection of the transmitted
magnetic field induced in the receive coil during the period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field is
substantially zero.
11. A metal detector according to claim 8, wherein the second voltage is controlled by a first negative
loop with an input signal from the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially constant
or zero transmit magnetic field.
12. A metal detector according to claim 1, wherein at a first time or during a first time period, an
impedance lower or higher than the damping resistor is applied across the receive coil and continues to
be applied until a third time during the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field.
13. A metal detector according to claim 12, wherein the first voltage is controlled by a second negative
loop with an input signal from the receive coil during at least part of the period of substantially constant
or zero transmit magnetic field.
                                                       25

14. A metal detector according to claim 9, wherein part of the voltage source includes a switch for
switching at least part of the damping resistor to the first voltage, second voltage or the fixed voltage.
15. A metal detector according to claim 14, wherein part of the voltage source includes a capacitor.
16. A metal detector according to claim 12, wherein the damping resistor includes two resistors, a first
resistor and a second resistor, such that a net value of the first resistor and second resistor connected in
parallel has a value equal to that required for substantially critical damping of the receive coil or altered
resistance away from critical damping during the first period until the third time.
17. A metal detector according to claim 16, wherein the first resistor is connected to the voltage source
and the second resistor is connected either to a fixed voltage or ground, or an open circuit, or a second
voltage source that may also be controlled by a signal induced in the receive coil during at least part of
the of rapid change of transmit magnetic field.
18. A metal detector according to claim 17, wherein the receive coil is effectively shorted for a fourth
period during the period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, or, immediately
before the period of the period of rapid change in magnetic field transmitted by a transmit coil.
19. A metal detector according to claim 18, wherein, the receive coil is effectively open circuit for a fifth
period.
20. A method for increasing a rate of decay of an induced signal in a receive coil of a metal detector due
to a signal induced in a transmit coil of the metal detector, wherein the signal is induced in the transmit
coil during a period of rapid change of transmit magnetic field when a period of changing transmit
magnetic field transitions to a period of substantially constant or zero transmit magnetic field, and
wherein the induced signal in the receive coil decays at least at the termination of the period of rapid
change of transmit magnetic field, the method including:
         connecting one end of the receive coil to one end of a damping resistor, with the other end of
the damping resistor connectable to a circuit with a variable parameter; and
                                                     26

        controlling the variable parameter, at a selected time, to change from one to another different
one when the signal induced in the receive coil is decaying, or during the period of rapid change of
transmit magnetic field, such that the rate of change of the decay is more rapid than when such control
of the variable parameter is absent.
21. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions, when executed, to perform the
method of claim 20.
                                                    27

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   <U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<U+2702><U+2701>
 <U+2704>   <U+2706>
     <U+260E>   <U+271D>

                                                    <U+2751>   <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+273D>                                                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2715>
              <U+2741>
              <U+2740>                                                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2716>
              <U+274F>
              <U+273E>
                                                                                                                     <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2717>
              <U+2749>
              <U+2742>                                                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2718>
              <U+2743>
              <U+2748>                                                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+2747>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2745>                                                                                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2711>
              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
              <U+273C>
              <U+274D>
              <U+25CF>                                                                                                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2711>
              <U+274B>
              <U+273C>                                                                                                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2718>
              <U+274B>
              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2717>
              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2716>   <U+260E>
              <U+273F>
              <U+274A>                                                                                                               <U+2704>
              <U+273C>
              <U+2742>                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2715>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2749>                                               <U+2722><U+2724>                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2714>
              <U+2742>                                                    <U+2733><U+2731>
                                                                   <U+2731>
                                                              <U+2723>
              <U+2743>                                               <U+271B>                                                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2713>
              <U+2748>                                               <U+2729>
              <U+2747>                                <U+272F>              <U+2605><U+2733>
              <U+2746>                                <U+272E><U+272D>                  <U+2735>                                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>
              <U+2745>                                <U+2723>
                                               <U+272C>              <U+272A>
              <U+273C>                                <U+2726>              <U+271C>                                                       <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711>
                                                              <U+272E>
              <U+2744>                                <U+272B>
                                                              <U+2727><U+2722>             <U+272D><U+2739>
              <U+2742>                                <U+2723>                             <U+2605>
                                               <U+2605>                   <U+2733>         <U+2724>                                        <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2711>
                                               <U+2729>                   <U+2734>              <U+2738>
              <U+2743>                                <U+271C>                   <U+2731>         <U+2724>
                                               <U+272A>              <U+2723><U+2733>             <U+271B>                                        <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F>
              <U+273C>                                <U+2725>              <U+271B>              <U+2727><U+2722>
              <U+2742>                                <U+2724>              <U+2723>
              <U+2741>                                                    <U+2731>              <U+2737>                                   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2718>
                                               <U+2723>
                                               <U+2729>              <U+2605><U+2733>
              <U+2740>                                <U+2605>                             <U+272A>
              <U+273E>                                <U+271C>              <U+2723>              <U+272F><U+2733>
                                                                                           <U+272D><U+2733>                         <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2717>
                                               <U+2727>
                                               <U+2726>
                                                              <U+2729>
                                                              <U+271C><U+2722>             <U+271A><U+2736>
              <U+273F>                                                                   <U+2733>        <U+2724>
              <U+273E>                                <U+2725>              <U+272D>                            <U+2726>
              <U+273D>                                <U+2724>              <U+2724>              <U+272E>                 <U+2731>                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716>
                                                                   <U+2732>         <U+2723><U+2722>                <U+2731>
              <U+273C>                                <U+2723><U+2722>             <U+2722>              <U+271B>             <U+2724>
              <U+273B>
                                               <U+271C><U+271B>             <U+271B><U+2731>             <U+2723>
                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                           <U+271B>
                                                                                           <U+2726>                          <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2715>
                                               <U+271A>              <U+272C>              <U+2605><U+2733>            <U+271C>
              <U+273A>                                <U+2719>                   <U+2730>                           <U+2732>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                  <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2704><U+261E>   <U+2704><U+261B>   <U+2721><U+2704>   <U+2720><U+2704>            <U+2704><U+271F>              <U+2704><U+271E>            <U+271D><U+2704>           <U+2706><U+2704>   <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+2702>   <U+260E><U+2704>
                  <U+260E>        <U+2702>    <U+2702>    <U+2702>    <U+2702>             <U+2702>               <U+2702>             <U+2702>            <U+2702>    <U+2702>        <U+2702><U+2701>

                                                      <U+272D><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                           <U+270F><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+270F><U+270C><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           <U+270F><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                           <U+2714><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+272C>
                                                                                           <U+2714><U+270C><U+270E>    <U+2729>
                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                           <U+2714><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>   <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                           <U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+270E><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                                  <U+272A><U+2726>
                                                                                           <U+270E>      <U+2729>
                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                           <U+2713><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+2716>
                                                                                                  <U+2729><U+2718>
                                                                                           <U+2713><U+270C><U+270E>    <U+2605>
                                                                                           <U+2713><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+2713>           <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+2727><U+2726>   <U+2704>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270C><U+270E>    <U+271A><U+2718>   <U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>   <U+2725><U+2718>
                                                                                           <U+2712>      <U+2724><U+2723>
                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                           <U+270D><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>   <U+271C><U+271B>
                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                           <U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>    <U+2719><U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                           <U+270D><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>   <U+2716>
                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                           <U+2711><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+2711><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+2711><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                           <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+261E><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                           <U+261E>
              <U+2704>   <U+2702><U+261B>       <U+2702><U+2721>    <U+2702><U+2720>    <U+2702><U+271F>       <U+2702><U+271E>       <U+2702><U+271D>       <U+2702><U+2706>    <U+2702><U+260E>    <U+2702><U+2704>       <U+2701>
                       <U+2701>     <U+2701>     <U+2701>        <U+2701>     <U+2701>           <U+2701>     <U+2701>     <U+2701>        <U+2701>

                                                                                  <U+2756><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2713><U+270E> <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2712><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2713><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2714><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+270F><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                <U+2748>           <U+2748>                                        <U+25C6><U+2742>                                  <U+2712><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+2718>                                            <U+2747><U+273F><U+2746>         <U+2747><U+2746><U+273F>                       <U+25B2>                 <U+273F><U+273D>
                   <U+2722><U+2727>                                                                                 <U+2751>                                                  <U+2713><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
                            <U+272B>                                   <U+2745>           <U+2745>                         <U+274F>              <U+2751><U+273C>
                            <U+2718>                                   <U+2743><U+2740>          <U+2743><U+2740>                                          <U+2741><U+273E>                               <U+2714><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B>
              <U+272D><U+2723>   <U+2605><U+2731>       <U+2722>
                            <U+2725><U+272C>                                  <U+273F><U+2744>          <U+273F><U+2744>                        <U+25CF><U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+270F><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+2719><U+2729>                                           <U+2740><U+2743>          <U+2740><U+2743>                        <U+273F><U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2747><U+2746>         <U+274B><U+25BC><U+273C>
              <U+272D><U+2723>   <U+2725><U+272C>       <U+271B><U+272B>                                                              <U+273E>                           <U+273F>                                <U+2714><U+270E> <U+270D>
              <U+2719>    <U+271B>        <U+2725><U+271C>                                  <U+273F><U+2742>          <U+2742><U+273F>          <U+25CF><U+274B><U+273F>           <U+274D><U+273F>             <U+274B><U+2744>                                  <U+2712><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2726>    <U+272D><U+2723>       <U+272C><U+2719>                                  <U+2741><U+2740>          <U+2741><U+2740>              <U+2743>             <U+2741><U+2740>            <U+2741><U+2744>
              <U+272B>                                                 <U+273E><U+273F><U+273D>         <U+273F><U+273E>          <U+25CF><U+2743><U+2744>               <U+2746><U+2744>            <U+273C><U+2741>                               <U+2713><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B><U+2719>   <U+272B><U+272B>            <U+272E>                              <U+273D><U+273C>          <U+273D><U+273D>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B><U+272B>   <U+2725><U+271C>            <U+2739><U+2738>                                         <U+273C>           <U+274B><U+273C>            <U+274A><U+2740>  <U+2742><U+273F>
                                                                                                                        <U+2742><U+273C>
                                                                                                                        <U+2746><U+2743>                               <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+272C><U+2727>            <U+2737>                    <U+273A>         <U+273B>           <U+2749>           <U+274A>                                                                <U+270F><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2722><U+2719>            <U+2723><U+2727>
                   <U+271B><U+272A>                                                                                                                                    <U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2718>             <U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+271B>    <U+2727><U+2723>       <U+271B>                                                                                                                            <U+2712><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272D><U+272C>   <U+2729>        <U+272D>                                                                                                                            <U+2713><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2719><U+2723>   <U+2725><U+2605>       <U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+272B>   <U+271B>        <U+2726>                                                                                                                            <U+2714><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272B>    <U+272D><U+2723>       <U+2725>                                                                                                                            <U+270F><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+2706>
              <U+271B><U+272A>            <U+272D><U+272B>                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                   <U+272D><U+2723>       <U+272D>                                                                                                                            <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2704>
              <U+2727><U+2723>   <U+2725>
              <U+2729>
              <U+2725><U+2605>        <U+2730>   <U+2723><U+2736>                                                                                                                           <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+2702><U+2701>
                   <U+271B><U+2723>            <U+2735>                                                                                                                       <U+2713><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2718><U+271C>   <U+2727>             <U+2730>
                   <U+2722><U+2719>            <U+2734>                                                                                                                       <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2727>             <U+272D><U+272A>                                                                                                                           <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2726><U+271C>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+272E>           <U+2732>
              <U+2725><U+2724>   <U+271B>        <U+2725><U+271C>                                                                                                                           <U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2718>    <U+2725><U+2723>       <U+272D><U+2723>                                                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B>    <U+271C>        <U+272A>                                                                                                                            <U+2713><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+2723>
              <U+2723>             <U+2722><U+2719>                                                                                                                           <U+2714><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2722>    <U+272B><U+2719>       <U+2726>
              <U+271B><U+271C>   <U+272B>        <U+2725>                                                                                                                            <U+270F><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+271B><U+271C>            <U+2733>
              <U+271B>    <U+272A>        <U+2723>                                                                                                                            <U+270D>
              <U+271A><U+2719>   <U+2722><U+2719>       <U+2722>
              <U+2718>             <U+271B><U+271C>                                                                                                                           <U+270F><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2717>         <U+272F>   <U+271C>                                                                                                                            <U+2714><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                   <U+2727><U+272E>       <U+272C><U+2732>                                                                                                                           <U+2713><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2712><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2713><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>   <U+260E>   <U+2704><U+261E><U+2702>       <U+2704><U+261B><U+2702>         <U+2721><U+2704>
                                                                        <U+2702>         <U+2704><U+2720><U+2702>           <U+2704><U+271F><U+2702>            <U+271E><U+2704>
                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                             <U+271D><U+2704>
                                                                                                                               <U+2702>   <U+2704><U+2706><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702>   <U+2702>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>

                                                                                <U+2730><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                                                                                                         <U+2713><U+2718><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2716><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2711><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2714><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                    <U+2717><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2713><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272B>
              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                    <U+2718><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
                  <U+272E>
              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+270F><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272C>
              <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2605>                                                                 <U+2711><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
                  <U+2730>
              <U+2719>
              <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2727>                                                                 <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                  <U+2726><U+2725>                                                                <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B>
                                                  <U+2725>         <U+272A>
              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2715><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272B>
                      <U+271B>
              <U+2722>
                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
                  <U+2737>
                      <U+2722>
                  <U+2739>
                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                    <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2717>
                      <U+2723>
                      <U+2719>
                  <U+2736>
                      <U+272C>
              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
                      <U+2727>
              <U+2723>
                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                    <U+2712><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2727>
                      <U+2727>
                                                                     <U+272F><U+272E>
              <U+2729>
              <U+2719>
                      <U+272C>
                                                                     <U+272D><U+272C>                                             <U+2713><U+2717><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
                      <U+2729>
              <U+2725>
                  <U+2723>
                      <U+2719>
              <U+272C>
                  <U+2722>                                                                                                 <U+2715><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2706>
                      <U+2725>
                          <U+2723>                       <U+2724>         <U+2729>        <U+272B>                                                       <U+260E>
                      <U+272C>
              <U+2723>
              <U+271C>
                          <U+2722>                                                                                         <U+2713><U+2718><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                    <U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2702><U+2701>
                      <U+2723>
              <U+2725>
                          <U+2732>
              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
                      <U+2725>
              <U+272B>
                  <U+2731>
                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
              <U+272B>
                      <U+271C>
              <U+2722>
                      <U+2725>
                  <U+271C>                                                                                                 <U+2713><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                  <U+2737>
                      <U+272D>
                  <U+271B>
                      <U+272B>
                  <U+271A>   <U+2725>
                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                    <U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2723>
                  <U+2736>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2718><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                    <U+2715><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2717><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2725>
              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                    <U+2712><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+272D>
              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2716><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2719>
              <U+2726>
                  <U+2719>                                                                                                 <U+2713><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2715><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2714><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+2711><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                              <U+2706><U+2704>   <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+2704>    <U+261B><U+2704>        <U+2721><U+2704>       <U+2720><U+2704>        <U+271F><U+2704>    <U+271E><U+2704>     <U+271D><U+2704>   <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+2706><U+2704>   <U+2702>   <U+2706><U+2704>   <U+260E><U+2704>
                              <U+2706>          <U+2702>   <U+2702>         <U+2702>        <U+2702>           <U+2702>   <U+2702>      <U+2702>    <U+2702>    <U+2702>        <U+2702><U+2701>   <U+2702><U+2701>

                                                          <U+2741><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                                                                    <U+261E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                                               <U+261B><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                          <U+273D><U+2738>                                   <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                          <U+2733><U+2737>
                                          <U+273C><U+2738>                                   <U+270C><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                          <U+273A>                                    <U+2720><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+272D>                           <U+273B><U+273A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272A><U+272B>                          <U+2736><U+2737>                                   <U+270E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+272A>                           <U+2739><U+2735>                                   <U+261B><U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
                                          <U+2733><U+2738>               <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271C>                           <U+2737><U+2736><U+2735>              <U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2713>                           <U+2735><U+2734>               <U+2736><U+2740><U+273F>                 <U+270C><U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2722>                   <U+2732>       <U+2733>     <U+273E>                              <U+2720><U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+272C>
              <U+272A><U+272B>   <U+2723><U+2716>                                                          <U+270C><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+272A>                                                                <U+261B><U+270D><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2729>    <U+2712><U+271A>                                                          <U+261E><U+270D><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+271A>   <U+271A><U+2731>                                                          <U+270C><U+270D><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2713>    <U+2727><U+2729>                                                          <U+2720><U+270D><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2712>         <U+2730>                                                      <U+270D><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2712>    <U+2711>
              <U+2727><U+271A>        <U+272F>                                                      <U+261B><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                   <U+2712><U+271A>
              <U+2712>                                                                <U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2726>    <U+2727>                                                           <U+270C><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2716>    <U+2712><U+271A>
              <U+2725><U+271A>                                                               <U+2720><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2724><U+2715>   <U+2722>                                                           <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2724>    <U+2713><U+2715>                                                                  <U+2706>
              <U+2712><U+2716>                                                               <U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>    <U+260E>
                   <U+2715><U+2723><U+272E>                                                         <U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>    <U+2704>
              <U+2719>    <U+2712>                                                           <U+270C><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2715>   <U+2725><U+271A>
              <U+2711>                                                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2723>    <U+2724>                                                           <U+2721><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2722>    <U+271C>                                                           <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271C>    <U+2713>
                   <U+2725><U+2714>                                                          <U+261E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2712>
              <U+271B><U+271A>   <U+2712><U+2724>                                                          <U+270C><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2719>    <U+2725><U+2716>                                                          <U+2720><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+2713>    <U+2714><U+2715>                                                          <U+271E>
              <U+2718><U+2715>                                                               <U+2720><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2714>   <U+2723>
              <U+2716><U+2715>                                                               <U+270C><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2714>                                                                <U+261E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2713>                                                                <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2712>                                                                <U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2711>                                                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+270F>
                                                                               <U+270C><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                               <U+261E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                               <U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                               <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                              <U+2704>       <U+2706>             <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>          <U+260E>     <U+2704>   <U+2701>
                            <U+2706><U+2702>                                       <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                   <U+2736><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                                            <U+2721><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2721><U+261E><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>                 <U+2713>
                            <U+2723>                          <U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2722>
                            <U+272F>                          <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+272E>
                            <U+272D>        <U+2729>                 <U+261B><U+271F><U+271E>                   <U+2712>
                            <U+2714>        <U+2723><U+2725>
                            <U+2723>        <U+2715>                 <U+2721><U+2711><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+271C>             <U+2735>
                            <U+2724>                          <U+270D><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2722>        <U+2715>
                            <U+272D>        <U+2717>
                            <U+271C><U+2726>                         <U+2721><U+270F><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2724><U+2725>       <U+2716>
                                     <U+2715>                 <U+261E><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2716>        <U+2714>
                            <U+272C>        <U+2723>                 <U+2721><U+270F><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+272B>        <U+2722>
                            <U+272A><U+2729>       <U+272F><U+2718>                <U+2720><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2605><U+2718>       <U+271B>
                                          <U+2734>            <U+2721><U+270E><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2719>             <U+2733>
                            <U+271A>        <U+2722><U+2725>                <U+2711><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>                                <U+2706>
                                     <U+2726>                                                     <U+260E>
                            <U+2718><U+2725>            <U+2732>                                                <U+2704>
                            <U+2727>        <U+2718><U+2725>                <U+2721><U+270C><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>                               <U+2702><U+2701>
                            <U+2724><U+2726>       <U+2727>
                            <U+2725>        <U+2724><U+2726>                <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2724>        <U+2725>
                            <U+2723>        <U+2724><U+2731>                <U+2721><U+261B><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2722>        <U+2718><U+2726>
                            <U+2717>                          <U+270F><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+271C>        <U+271C>
                            <U+271B>        <U+272F>
                            <U+271A>        <U+272D>                 <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2719><U+2718>       <U+2723>
                                     <U+2722>                 <U+270E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                            <U+2717>        <U+272F><U+2718>
                            <U+2716>                          <U+2721><U+270D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                     <U+271A>
                            <U+2715>
                            <U+2714>        <U+2725><U+2730>                <U+270C><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2721><U+261E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+271E>
              <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+2702>   <U+260E><U+2704>        <U+2706>            <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+271D>          <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+2706><U+2701>   <U+260E><U+2704>       <U+2702><U+2701>   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2702>        <U+2706>                      <U+271D>               <U+271D><U+2701>        <U+2706><U+2701>            <U+2702><U+2701>

                                       <U+2742><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                                       <U+2711><U+270E><U+261B><U+270C>
                                                       <U+270E><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2732><U+2719>                                       <U+270C><U+270F><U+261B><U+270C>
              <U+2718>                                        <U+270E><U+261E><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C>
              <U+2731>                                        <U+270E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2718><U+2719>   <U+272D>                                   <U+270E><U+2713><U+270D><U+261B><U+270C>         <U+2741><U+2740>
              <U+2718>    <U+2718><U+272F>                                  <U+2712><U+2721><U+261B><U+270C>          <U+273D><U+273C>
              <U+2726><U+2729>   <U+272E><U+2719>                                  <U+270E><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+270D>         <U+273F><U+273D>
              <U+2605>    <U+272D><U+272C>                                  <U+270D><U+2711><U+261B><U+270D>          <U+273E><U+2737>
              <U+271A><U+272D>                                                     <U+273D><U+273C>
              <U+2727><U+272C>   <U+271B>                                   <U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+261B><U+270D>         <U+273B>
              <U+2719><U+272D>   <U+2736>                                   <U+270F><U+2714><U+261B><U+270D>
                   <U+2735><U+2732>
              <U+2730><U+272D>   <U+2724>                                   <U+270E><U+270E><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+2718><U+272F>   <U+2734>                                   <U+2714><U+270E><U+261B><U+270D>
                   <U+272A><U+2729>                                  <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+272E><U+2719>   <U+2605>                                                 <U+273A>
              <U+272D><U+272C>   <U+2727>                                   <U+270F><U+261B><U+270D>           <U+2739><U+2738>
                   <U+2716>                                   <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+271B>    <U+2715>                                   <U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+272B>    <U+2733>                                   <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+272A><U+2729>   <U+272A>                                                           <U+2706>
              <U+2605>    <U+2715>                                   <U+2713><U+2721><U+261B><U+270D>                    <U+260E>
              <U+2727>    <U+272E><U+2729>                                  <U+270E><U+2714><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721>                   <U+2704>
              <U+2716>                                        <U+2711><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721>                    <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2715>    <U+2717>                                                 <U+2737>
              <U+271B>    <U+2718><U+2729>                                  <U+270E><U+2721><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2726>    <U+272D>                                   <U+270C><U+2714><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2725>    <U+2718>
                   <U+2716>                                   <U+270E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2724>    <U+2716>                                   <U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2723>    <U+272E><U+272D>
              <U+2722>                                        <U+270E><U+2713><U+270F><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2717>    <U+271B>                                   <U+2712><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2718>    <U+2726>                                   <U+270E><U+2711><U+270C><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+271C>    <U+2725>
              <U+271B>                                        <U+270D><U+270C><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+271A>    <U+2724>                                   <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2717>    <U+2723>
              <U+2719>    <U+2722>                                   <U+270F><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721>
              <U+2718>                                        <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2717>                                        <U+261E><U+270D><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2715>                                        <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                       <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720>
                        <U+271F>   <U+271E><U+2704>   <U+271D><U+2704>    <U+260E><U+2704>     <U+2706><U+2704>   <U+2702>            <U+2706><U+2704>        <U+260E><U+2704>
                            <U+2702>      <U+2702>   <U+2702>      <U+2702>                 <U+2702><U+2701>        <U+2702><U+2701>

                                                                    <U+2747><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>                                                                                    <U+2715><U+2718><U+270E><U+2714>
                                                                                               <U+2713><U+270F><U+2718><U+270E><U+2714>
                                                                                               <U+2716><U+2717><U+270E><U+2714>
                                                                                               <U+2713><U+2711><U+2717><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2735><U+2725>                                                                               <U+2718><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2726>                                                                                <U+2713><U+2714><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714>      <U+2746><U+2745>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2736>                                                                                           <U+2742><U+2741>
              <U+271A>                                                                                <U+2717><U+2712><U+270E><U+2714>       <U+2744><U+2742>
              <U+2726><U+2725>   <U+2734>                                                                           <U+2713><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2714>      <U+2743><U+273C>
              <U+2726>    <U+2726><U+2727>                                                                          <U+2713><U+270F><U+270E><U+2714>       <U+2742><U+2741>
              <U+272E><U+2605>                                                                                          <U+2740>
              <U+2731>    <U+2729><U+2725>                                                                          <U+2713><U+2715><U+2711><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+271A>    <U+2734><U+2722>                                                                          <U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2734>
              <U+2730><U+2722>   <U+271B>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2716><U+2714><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2725>         <U+273B>                                                                      <U+270F><U+2714><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2734>    <U+2733><U+273A>
              <U+2735>                                                                                <U+2713><U+2718><U+270D><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2734>    <U+272B>
              <U+2726><U+2727>        <U+2739>                                                                      <U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2732><U+2605>                                                                          <U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>      <U+273F>
              <U+2734><U+2722>   <U+2731>                                                                           <U+2714><U+2715><U+270E><U+270D>       <U+273E><U+273D>
                   <U+2730>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2713><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+271B>    <U+2723>
              <U+2733>    <U+272F>                                                                           <U+2716><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2732><U+2605>        <U+2738>                                                                      <U+2713><U+2712><U+2718><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2731>    <U+2732>                                                                           <U+2715><U+2717><U+270E><U+270D>                        <U+2706>
              <U+2730>    <U+272F>                                                                                                       <U+260E>
              <U+2723>    <U+272E><U+2605>                                                                          <U+2713><U+270F><U+2717><U+270E><U+270D>                       <U+2704>
              <U+272F>    <U+2722>                                                                           <U+2716><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>                        <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2727>         <U+2737>                                                                      <U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>      <U+273C>
              <U+271B>    <U+2727>                                                                           <U+2718><U+2712><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272E>    <U+2726><U+2722>
              <U+272D>    <U+2725>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272C>    <U+2726><U+2727>                                                                          <U+2717><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272B>                                                                                <U+2713><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+272A>    <U+2723><U+2722>
              <U+2725>    <U+2727>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2729><U+2605>                                                                               <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2727><U+2722>   <U+271B>
              <U+2727>    <U+272E>                                                                           <U+2712><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2726><U+2725>   <U+272D>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
                   <U+272C>                                                                           <U+270F><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2724>    <U+272B>
              <U+2723><U+2722>   <U+272A>                                                                           <U+2713><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271C>                                                                                <U+2716><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271B>                                                                                <U+2713><U+270F><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2719>                                                                                <U+2715><U+2714><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                               <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                               <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                            <U+2704><U+271D><U+271D>   <U+271D>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+261E>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+261B>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2721>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2720>   <U+2704><U+271F><U+2702>    <U+2704><U+271E><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+2706><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D>   <U+2702>      <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D>        <U+2704><U+2706><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702>
                                                                                                     <U+2701>         <U+2701>     <U+2701>

                                  <U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   <U+2701>
                                                   <U+271D>
                                                   <U+2701>
                  <U+2706>
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2701>
                                                           <U+260E>
                                       <U+2706>
                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                           <U+2701>
                                           <U+2701>
              <U+2704>
                                                           <U+2701>
                                           <U+2701>
              <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+2706>
              <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+2704>
                                   <U+271E>
                          <U+2701>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+2702><U+2701>
                          <U+2701>
                                                               <U+2704>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                               <U+271F>
                              <U+260E>
                              <U+2702>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2706>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                       <U+2701>
                              <U+2701>
                                                       <U+2702>
                                                       <U+2701>

