                                           ABSTRACT
                     AIR PURIFYING APPARATUS, METHOD & SYSTEM
         An air-purifying apparatus draws in an airflow from an ambient environment, kills germs
in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the environment. The
apparatus has a housing with an interior chamber. An airflow enters the chamber through an inlet.
From the interior chamber, the airflow is expelled through an outlet. The apparatus has an
airflow-germ-killing-system that kills germs in the airflow. The apparatus has an airflow
generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet. The apparatus sprays a
germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent and a disperser. Airflow
and disperser spread the antimicrobial agent across the user's skin of the hands.

                4 /38
           404
                                 13
400
            400                          405
611
                                 -          10
 600
 610                                           200A
                                                200A
    20
                                                  410A
    200C                     .,.    .424
                                                    12
    16
                                                     11
        12
                    Figure 4

                                                        1
                         AIR PURIFYING APPARATUS, METHOD & SYSTEM
   Field of Invention
 5
            The present invention relates to improvement in apparatus which draw in an airflow from
   an ambient human-activity environment, kill germs in the airflow, then expel the purified air from
   the apparatus back into the ambient environment.
            The present invention relates particularly to hand dryers, hand sanitizers and air purifiers.
10
   Background
            Human-activity environments, which are frequented by people, tend to be conducive for
   spreading germs and particularly disease-causing viruses among the people intermingling in the
15 human-activity environment.
            Moreover, there is constant change in the variety of viruses that circulate through a
   human population in any particular season of time. Each year, there are new strains of viruses
   which are different from the strains from previous seasons. Thus, anti-virus substances, designed
   to counteract earlier variants, may not be as effective against strains that emerge in the new
20 season.
            When some anti-virus substances are manufactured to be of sufficient strength to kill
   certain viruses, a side effect is that the strength of those antivirus substances can also
   inadvertently pose a health risk to humans. There are germ-killing substances, adapted to be
   harmful to germs, that are also toxic to humans. For example, substances that are able to kill
25 virulent airborne viruses, such as HiNi virus, may also be toxic to humans or can at least
   instigate harmful side effects in humans. For example, the substances, intended to kill the germs,
   could at the same time trigger allergic reactions in humans.
            For apparatus that are designed to draw in airflow from ambient human-activity
   environments, such apparatus may inadvertently become collectors and breeding sites for germs.
30 For example, electric hand dryers, that are installed in toilets, can draw in germs from the ambient
   atmosphere of the toilet.
            In the prior art, in such apparatus that draw in an airflow, it is known to provide filters
   that are impregnated with antivirus substances. The present inventor's earlier International
   Application No. PCT/AU2005/001803 (Rubin) required airflow in a hand dryer housing to pass

                                                        2
   through several sheets of flat filter material, where the filters are arranged in series, one filter after
   the other. In other words, all the airflow inside the hand dryer housing had to be forced through
   this series of small sheets of filters. This required a fan with a powerful fan-motor to generate
   airflow of sufficient force to enable the airflow to flow through the sequence of sheets of filters.
 5 In practice, use of a more powerful fan-motor can result in higher noise levels generated from
   within the hand dryer housing.
             Faced with the need of generating more powerful airflow through the germ-killing
   apparatus, a known approach has been to focus on achieving improvements in fan-motor design
   in order to provide stronger and more powerful fan-motors. Thus, the more powerful fan-motors,
10 while creating more powerful airflow, can inadvertently lead to problems associated with the
   higher levels of noise in the human activity environment. In the prior art, an approach to the
   problem of high fan-motor noise is to improve the electrical and/or mechanical design of the fan
   motors in an attempt to reduce emitted noise, while maintaining the amount of power required for
   fast airflow through such apparatus.
15           Another problem in known hand dryers is that the time needed to dry a user's hands can
   be substantially longer compared to, say, the user drying their hands with towel.
             Another problem in known hand dryers and air purifiers, which draw in and expel the
   airflow, is that over time a large degree of build-up of grime from the airflow builds up on
   external surfaces of the apparatus were the airflow enters and leaves. Figure 19A and 19B are
20 underside views of examples of known hand dryers attached to a wall 3. Over time, such known
   hand dryers experience build-up of grime on the undersides of the apparatus, as view in Figures
   19A and 19B.
             An object of the present invention is to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more of the
   problems, or to provide an improved alternative.
25           This specification and its description contains several inventive aspects, and it is not
   intended that each and every inventive aspect should be able to solve each and every one of the
   above problems. Rather, each inventive aspect is able to overcome or at least ameliorate at least
   one or more problems.
             Any discussion of prior art above and herein in this specification, either singly or in
30 combination, is not to be construed as an admission of the state of common general knowledge of
   the skilled addressee.
   Summary of Invention

                                                       3
            The present specification contains several aspects of the present invention:
            According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human-activity
   environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity
 5 environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
   into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
            a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
10          an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the inlet includes multiple inlet apertures that are arranged, when in use mounted
   on a wall, to each draw in part of any incoming airflow from a different direction relative to other
   of the multiple inlets.
15          When mounted on the wall, the apparatus may have a central axis, and preferably each of
   the inlet apertures has a plane that defines a front face of its opening, and wherein the plane of
   one of the inlet apertures preferably is not co-planar with the plane of the other of the inlet
   apertures.
            Preferably, the respective planes of each of the apertures are not perpendicular to the
20 central axis in order that the face of each inlet aperture points away from the central axis and not
   directly downwards in the direction of the central axis.
            Preferably, the multiple inlet apertures are able, in use, to each draw in part of any
   incoming airflow in a lateral direction relative to the central axis.
            Preferably, the inlet includes two inlet apertures that draw in the incoming airflow
25 laterally from the right hand side and left hand side of the central axis.
            According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human-activity
   environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity
   environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
30 into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
            a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;

                                                         4
             wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a three-dimensional filter structure
   comprising air-filter-surfaces that define a filter interior region therein and encompassed by the
   air-filter-surfaces of the filter structure, the encompassed filter interior region, in use, positioned
   in connection with the inlet so that airflow entering the inlet is dispersed into the housing interior
 5 chamber in multiple directions exclusively through the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional
   filter structure.
             The three-dimensional filter structure may be formed as a container or a box with one
   side fully opened
             The air-filter-surfaces may include wall-structure and ceiling-structure.
10           The air-filter-surfaces may comprise a non-flat surface structure.
             The air-filter-surfaces may comprise a multi-faceted surface structure having a pleated or
   corrugated structure.
             The air-filter-surfaces may comprise multiple layers of different filter material, and
   wherein the multiple layers of the air-filter-surfaces may comprise a sequence of layers from
15 nearest to the filter interior region to furthest from the filter interior region as follows:
             i)       a germ-killing filter layer that carries germ-killing-substance; and
             ii)      a germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts or substantially
   intercepts the germ-killing-substance.
             The sequence of layers from nearest to the filter interior region to furthest from the filter
20 interior region may comprise:
             i)       said germ-killing filter layer that carries germ-killing-substance; and
             ii)      said germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts or
   substantially intercepts the germ-killing-substance, and
             iii)     a material entrapment layer that entraps at least any filter material that come from
25 said germ-killing filter layer and said germ-killing-substance interception filter layer.
             The germ-killing-substance interception filter layer may include charcoal or carbon.
             The material entrapment layer may include anti-fibre-migration filter material that is able
   to entrap material that has potential to cause nasal irritation or allergies in humans.
             The airflow-germ-killing-system may comprise germ-killing-substance positioner that is
30 able to position one or more sources of one or more air-diffusible germ-killing-substances inside
   the filter interior region that air-diffuse the germ-killing-substances upon engagement with any
   airflow in the filter interior region.
             Each of the one or more sources before air-diffusion occurs may be initially in the form
   of a solid or gel.

                                                        5
            The airflow-germ-killing-system may include a wick-delivery-system that includes a
   wick mechanism able to effuse into the airflow within the apparatus a germ-killing-liquid
   substance stored in a replaceable container.
            The wick-delivery-system may include a filter holder that is able to support the wick
 5 mechanism and also a further germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts the
   germ-killing-liquid-substance that effuses from the wick mechanism.
            The filter holder may also be able to support a further material entrapment layer that
   entraps at least any filter material that comes from said further germ-killing-substance
   interception filter layer.
10          The filter holder may include one or more side apertures adapted to allow, in use, a
   portion of the airflow to enter the filter holder through the one or more side apertures so as to pass
   across a face of the further filter layer while, in use, another portion of the airflow enters through
   the further filter layer, such that the passage of airflow through the one or more side apertures
   serves to draw the airflow through the further filter layer.
15          The apparatus may include airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement that enables
   adjustment of the size of at least part of a path that the airflow takes within the apparatus.
            The airflow-generator may include a fan in a fan-housing and may also includes a motor
   in a motor-housing, said part of the path that the airflow takes includes a gap between the fan
   housing and the motor-housing, and wherein the airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement may be
20 able to allow adjustment of the gap in order to alter any airflow through the gap.
            The airflow-germ-killing-system may include a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that
   sprays germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow at a location where, in use, the germ-killing
   liquid-substance does not coat onto surfaces of the apparatus itself.
            The germ-killing-substance-sprayer may be arranged to spray the germ-killing-liquid
25 substance into the airflow at a point where, in use, the airflow has already exited the apparatus so
   as not to coat onto surfaces of the apparatus itself.
            The germ-killing-substance-sprayer may have a spray-outlet in the form of an
   arrangement of several atomizer spray ducts which are arranged on a duct-support, each of the
   spray ducts arranged to spray liquid in a different direction.
30          The duct-support may be able to be rotated as spray is emitted from its spray ducts.
            The duct-support may have a direction of rotation that is able to be intermittently and
   periodically changed from clockwise to anti-clockwise.

                                                         6
             According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided use of an apparatus,
   according to the 2nd aspect of the invention, wherein an anti-germ substance used in or inside the
   three-dimensional filter structure is substantially toxic to humans, and any anti-germ substance
   used elsewhere in the filter interior region, airflow path and outside of the three-dimensional filter
 5 structure is substantially non-toxic to humans.
             According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of using
   an apparatus according to 2nd aspect, wherein an anti-germ substance used in or inside the three
   dimensional filter structure is substantially toxic to humans, and any anti-germ substance used
10 elsewhere in the filter interior region, airflow path and outside of the three-dimensional filter
   structure is substantially non-toxic to humans.
             According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an airflow-germ
   killing-system-filter adapted to be used in a human-activity-environment air-purifying apparatus
15 that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow
   within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the human-activity-environment,
   the apparatus comprising:
             a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
20           an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
             an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
             wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system-filter comprises a three-dimensional filter
   structure having air-filter-surfaces that define a filter interior region therein and encompassed by
   the air-filter-surfaces of the filter structure, the encompassed filter interior region, in use,
25 positioned in connection with the inlet so that airflow entering the inlet is dispersed into the
   housing interior chamber in multiple directions exclusively through the air-filter-surfaces of the
   three-dimensional filter structure.
             The three-dimensional filter structure may be formed as a container or a box with one
30 side fully opened.
             The air-filter-surfaces may include wall-structure and ceiling-structure.
             The air-filter-surfaces may comprise a non-flat surface structure.
             The air-filter-surfaces may comprise a multi-faceted surface structure having a pleated or
   corrugated structure.

                                                         7
            The air-filter-surfaces may comprise multiple layers of different filter material, and
   wherein the multiple layers of the air-filter-surfaces may comprise a sequence of layers from
   nearest to the filter interior region to furthest from the filter interior region as follows:
            i)        a germ-killing filter layer that carries germ-killing-substance; and
 5          ii)       a germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts or substantially
   intercepts the germ-killing-substance.
            The sequence of layers from nearest to the filter interior region to furthest from the filter
   interior region may comprise:
            i)        said germ-killing filter layer that carries germ-killing-substance; and
10          ii)       said germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts or
   substantially intercepts the germ-killing-substance, and
            iii)      a material entrapment layer that entraps at least any filter material that come from
   said germ-killing filter layer and said germ-killing-substance interception filter layer.
            The germ-killing-substance interception filter layer may include charcoal or carbon.
15
            According to a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human-activity
   environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity
   environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
   into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
20          a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
   wherein the apparatus has an underside and a base-mounting adapted to be attached to a wall, and
25 wherein both the inlet and the outlet are on the underside of the apparatus such that the inlet is not
   between the outlet and the base-mounting.
            The inlet and outlet may be arranged on the underside generally in a row or sequence
   where the direction of the row or sequence is generally alongside the base-mounting.
30          On the surface where the outlet and inlet are positioned, the inlet may occupy a very
   substantial portion of said surface that is outside the outgoing-airflow-protected-surface-region.
            According to a seventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided a vacuum
   cleaner air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity-

                                                        8
   environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
   into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
             a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
 5           an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
             an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
             wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a three-dimensional filter structure
   comprising air-filter-surfaces that define a filter interior region therein and encompassed by the
   air-filter-surfaces of the filter structure, the encompassed filter interior region, in use, positioned
10 in connection with a path of the airflow inside the vacuum cleaner so that airflow entering the
   inlet is dispersed into the housing interior chamber in multiple directions exclusively through the
   air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional filter structure.
             According to an eighth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human
15 activity-environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human
   activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow
   purified back into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
             a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
20           an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
             an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
             wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a wick-delivery-system that includes a
   wick mechanism able to effuse into the airflow within the apparatus a germ-killing-liquid
   substance stored in a replaceable container.
25
             The wick-delivery-system may include a filter holder that is able to support the wick
   mechanism and also a further germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that intercepts the
   germ-killing-liquid-substance that effuses from the wick mechanism.
30           The filter holder may also be able to support a further material entrapment layer that
   entraps at least any filter material that comes from said further germ-killing-substance
   interception filter layer.
             The filter holder may include one or more side apertures adapted to allow, in use, a
   portion of the airflow to enter the filter holder through the one or more side apertures so as to pass

                                                        9
   across a face of the further filter layer while, in use, another portion of the airflow may enter
   through the further filter layer, such that the passage of airflow through the one or more side
   apertures serves to draw the airflow through the further filter layer.
 5          According to a ninth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human-activity
   environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity
   environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
   into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
            a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
10 from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the apparatus includes airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement that enables
   adjustment of the size of at least part of a path that the airflow takes within the apparatus.
15
            The airflow-generator may include a fan in a fan-housing and also may include a motor in
   a motor-housing, said part of the path that the airflow takes includes a gap between the fan
   housing and the motor-housing, and wherein the airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement may be
   able to allow adjustment of the gap in order to alter any airflow through the gap.
20
            According to a tenth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human-activity
   environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity
   environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back
   into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
25          a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that is
30 able to spray germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow at a location where, in use, the germ
   killing-liquid-substance does not coat onto surfaces of the apparatus itself.

                                                     10
            The germ-killing-substance-sprayer may be arranged to spray the germ-killing-liquid
   substance into the airflow at a point where, in use, the airflow has already exited the apparatus so
   as not to coat onto surfaces of the apparatus itself.
            The germ-killing-substance-sprayer may have a spray-outlet in the form of an
 5 arrangement of several atomizer spray ducts which are arranged on a duct-support, each of the
   spray ducts arranged to spray liquid in a different direction.
            The duct-support may be able to be rotated as spray is emitted from its spray ducts.
            The duct-support may have a direction of rotation that is able to be intermittently and
   periodically changed from clockwise to anti-clockwise.
10
            According to an eleventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided a human
   activity-environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human
   activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow
   purified back into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
15          a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that
20 sprays germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,
            and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
   and a disperser.
            The at least one antimicrobial agent may be a quaternary ammonium salt and the
25 disperser may be an alkyl glucoside.
            The at least one antimicrobial agent may include a first anti microbial agent comprising
   alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride and a second anti microbial agent comprising didecyl
   dimethyl ammonium chloride.
            The ratio between the first and the second antimicrobial agent may be approximately 4:6.
30          The disperser may include one or more of decylglucoside and octylglucoside.
            The disperser may include decylglucoside and octylglucoside in the ratio of
   approximately 6:5.
            The at least one antimicrobial agent may include a third antimicrobial a biguanide.
            The biguanide may be a poly-hexamethylene biguanide.

                                                     11
            In exemplary embodiments that have a third antimicrobial agent, the ratio of the
   combination of the first and second antimicrobial agents to the third antimicrobial agent may be
   approximately 1:1.
            The airflow-germ-killing-system may include a three-dimensional filter structure as
 5 described above in other aspects of the invention.
            According to a twelfth aspect of the present invention, there is provided use of a germ
   killing-liquid-substance in a human-activity-environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an
   airflow from an ambient human-activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow within the
10 apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus
   comprising:
            a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
            an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
15          an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that is
   able to spray germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,
            and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
   and a disperser.
20
            According to a thirteenth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   spraying at least one antimicrobial agent onto and spreading the agent over a user's hands, the
   method comprising:
            spraying a germ-killing-liquid-substance using a human-activity-environment air
25 purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity-environment, kills
   germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the human
   activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
            a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
   from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
30          an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
            an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
            wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that is
   used to spray the germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,

                                                     12
            and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
   and a disperser,
            and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
   and a disperser, and the method includes using the airflow and the disperser to spread the least
 5 one antimicrobial agent across the user's skin of the hands.
   Drawings
            In order that the present invention might be more fully understood, embodiments of each
10 of the aspects of the invention will be described, by way of example only, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 is a bottom perspective view of an embodiment of an air purifying apparatus in
   the form of a hand dryer, where the dryer is viewed at an angle from below when the unit is
   mounted on an upright surface, such as a wall;
15          Figure 2 is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 1 showing the apparatus with the
   housing in a closed arrangement;
            Figure 3 is an end view or underside of the embodiment of Figure 1 viewed from beneath
   when the apparatus is mounted on a wall or upright surface;
            Figure 4 is a partial perspective view of the embodiment of Figure 1 shown with its hood
20 in an opened arrangement; the drawing of Figure 4 is regarded as a partial view in the sense that
   certain components, relating to a spraying apparatus, have been omitted from the drawing of the
   dryer in Figure 4, in order to show the tapered passageway that would otherwise be partially
   hidden by the presence of the spraying apparatus;
            Figure 5 is a front view of the embodiment shown in Figure 4, with the hood detached
25 from the base plate. In this drawing of Figure 5, in comparison to the partial Figure 4, the
   spraying apparatus is shown in front of the tapered passageway;
            Figure 6A is a perspective view of a three-dimensional filter used in the embodiment in
   Figures 4 and 5;
            Figure 6B is an exploded perspective view of the three-dimensional filter of Figure 6A
30 and its tray supporting assembly;
            Figure 6C is a cross-section of a cut-away portion of the three-dimensional filter of
   Figure 6A;
            Figure 6D is another cut-away, perspective view of the three-dimensional filter of Figure
   6A;

                                                     13
            Figure 6E is a cross-sectional plan view of the three-dimensional filter of Figure 6A, with
   a sub-view showing an enlarged portion;
            Figure 6F is a perspective view of a modified alternative three-dimensional filter that is
   larger in size compared to the filter of Figure 6A;
 5          Figure 6G is a perspective view of a modification to the three-dimensional filter of Figure
   6A in which the filter structure is provided with an external rack for carrying pieces of material to
   be effused into the airflow;
            Figure 7 is a perspective view of an assembly of a fan housing with an attached tapered
   passageway, and also shows, attached to this assembly, a filter holder that mounts a filter, and a
10 liquid container support that supports a container of liquid;
            Figure 8A is an exploded view of components that make up the filter holder and the
   liquid container support shown in Figure 7;
            Figure 8B shows a modification of the filter holder of Figure 8A in which multiple fluid
   reservoirs with wicks are provided;
15          Figure 9A is a side view of a first exemplary variant of a pump mechanism used in the
   embodiment shown in Figure 5;
            Figure 9B is a perspective view of the variant of Figure 9A;
            Figure 9C is an underside view of the variant of Figure 9A;
            Figure 9D is an exploded perspective view of the variant of Figure 9A;
20          Figure 10 is a cut-away perspective view showing an example of a modification of the
   spray pump mechanism;
            Figures 11 A and 11 B show side views of part of the modified spray pump mechanism of
   Figure 10;
            Figure 12A to 12D show a sequence of diagrams indicating movement of the modified
25 spray pump mechanism of Figure 10;
            Figure 12E shows a modification to the modified spray pump mechanism of Figure 10;
            Figure 13A is a perspective view of the pump-spray motor and rocking arm used in the
   embodiment of Figure 10;
            Figure 13A is a side view of the rocking arm of Figure 10;
30          Figure 14A is a partial perspective end view of a further embodiment viewed from
   beneath when the apparatus is mounted on a wall or upright surface 3, where the modified
   external casing relates to the modifications shown in Figure 10 to 12F;
            Figure 14B is a similar viewpoint to Figure 14A but showing another embodiment in
   which the nozzle is fixed in place and does not, in use, reciprocate back and forth;

                                                    14
           Figure 14C is a side view of the modified embodiment of Figure 14B, where Figure 14C
   has cut-away portions to reveal internal components of the modified pump mechanism;
           Figure 15A is a side view, and Figures 15B and 15C are perspective view of a further
   embodiment;
 5         and the following drawings relate to a further modified embodiment of an air purifying
   apparatus in the form of a hand dryer which has two air intakes, where:
           Figure 16A is a bottom perspective view of yet another embodiment of an air purifying
   apparatus in the form of a hand cleaner-dryer, where the cleaner-dryer is viewed at an angle from
   below when the unit is mounted on an upright surface, such as a wall;
10         Figure 16B is another perspective view of the embodiment of Figure 16A, shown
   notionally mounted on a wall, with its cover opened to reveal internal components;
           Figure 16C is an exploded perspective view of the embodiment of Figure 16A; and
           Figure 16D is a front partial view of the embodiment of Figure 16A shown with the cover
   removed to allow a view of parts of the internal components;
15
           Figure 17A is a front partial view of a further embodiment which is a modification of the
   embodiment of Figures 1 and 16A in that the present embodiment of Figure 17A is provided with
   angled inlet apertures;
           Figure 17B is a bottom perspective view of the embodiment of Figure 17A;
20         Figure 18 is an variation of the invention embodied in a vacuum cleaner; and
           Figure 19A and 19B both relate to prior art, and are schematic diagrams of end or
   underside views a prior art hand dryer or air purifier viewed from beneath when the apparatus is
   mounted on a wall or upright surface (with these views corresponding to the view in the
   embodiment of Figure 3 of the present invention).
25
           In the embodiments, like components are labeled with like reference numerals merely for
   the sake of ease of understanding the different embodiments and modifications of the various
   aspects of the invention.
           In the description, the reference numeral 200 refers to the airflow, and this numeral with
30 various suffixes 200A, 200B, 200C etc, refer to earlier or later portions of the same airflow that
   moves through the apparatus, and are not intended to refer to separate independent airflows.
           Some of the further embodiments, described below, may comprise a partial modification
   in only some, but not all, of the components illustrated in an earlier-described embodiment of the
   invention in this specification.

                                                      15
   Description of Embodiments
            Referring to the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 shows an embodiment of an air
 5 purifying apparatus in the form of a hand dryer 1.
            In Figure 1, the dryer 1, in use, draws in an airflow 200A from a human-activity ambient
   environment that is frequented by people, and then to expel that purified airflow 200C back into
   the ambient environment. The airflow 200A is drawn in through an inlet in the form of an inlet
   aperture 101. The airflow 200C exits the dryer through an outlet in the form of an exit-aperture
10 14.
            The invention is not limited to a particular visual appearance of an inlet aperture and
   outlet aperture, and may be varied in accordance with other embodiments and modifications.
            Examples of human-activity ambient environments, that are frequented by people,
   include toilets, doctors' waiting rooms, washrooms, rooms in a hospital, rooms for children,
15 rooms for invalids, rooms in homes, to name but a few non-limiting examples.
            Such human-activity ambient environments can also include closed environments that
   experience a high throughput of people such as waiting rooms, elevators, and in public transport
   such as trains and buses. Different embodiments of the invention are not limited to hand dryers,
   but may include apparatus of different varieties that can incorporate an air purifying function for a
20 range of human-activity ambient environments.
            In Figure 1, the hand dryer 1 is adapted to expel from the dryer 1 an airflow of
   substantially sterilised air 200C that can be used, for example, for drying hands. In the exemplary
   embodiment, the operational range of the heated air may be around 55 to 65 degrees Centigrade,
   although other embodiments may use whatever temperature is suited for that particular
25 environment. For example, winter climates may require airflows 200C of higher temperatures,
   while in warmer or tropical climates it may suffice for the dryer 1 to expel an airflow of lower or
   cooler temperature for drying hands in such warmer climates. The temperature of the airflow may
   be adjusted to achieve a comfort-level, relative to the ambient temperature, for the user whose
   hands are exposed to the airflow. In other embodiments that are solely intended to function as air
30 purifiers, no specific heating of the airflow is required.
            The hand dryer 1 has a housing. The housing includes a main hood 10 and a base
   mounting in the form of a baseplate 11. The baseplate 11 is visible when the dryer 1 is in an open,
   partial view of Figure 4. The baseplate 11 is partly visible when the dryer 1 is in a closed
   arrangement in the side view of Figure 2.

                                                       16
            In Figure 2 and Figure 4, the hood 10 is mounted to the baseplate 11 by hinges 12. When
   the dryer 1 is installed in place for use, the baseplate 11 is secured to a wall or upright surface
   with screws, bolts or other appropriate fastening mechanism.
            Figure 1 shows the hood 10 arranged in a closed arrangement, which is the arrangement
 5 of the dryer 1 when installed in location.
            Figure 4 shows the hood 10 arranged in an opened arrangement.
            In the embodiment, the hood 10 and the baseplate 11 of the housing define therein an
   interior chamber in the form of inner chamber 13. The inner chamber 13 is the interior space that
   is enclosed by the hood 10 and baseplate 11. Figure 5 shows a range of components installed
10 within the inner chamber 13.
            Further embodiments are not limited to the shape, configuration or size of the housing 1
   shown in Figure 1, and the housings of other embodiments may vary in shape and configuration
   and many be greater or smaller in size.
            During use, when the dryer 1 is operated to dry a user's hands, air from the ambient
15 human-activity environment, in the form of an airflow 200A, is drawn into the inner chamber 13
   of the housing 1 where the airflow is purified, and may be heated. The airflow is subsequently
   expelled onto the user's hands in the outgoing stream 200C of the airflow.
            The dryer 1 has two kinds of users of the apparatus: firstly the users who rely on the dryer
   1 to dry their hands and to kill germs in order to purify the air in the ambient environment, and
20 secondly the users who maintain the dryer by installing and replacing consumables inside the
   dryer 1. It is believed that the context of each situation will make it clear as to which user is being
   described.
            In the embodiment of Figure 1, the incoming airflow 200A is sucked into the hand dryer
   1 through the inlet aperture 101.
25          When the hand dryer 1 is closed, as in Figures 1 and 2, the interface of the hood 10 and
   baseplate 11 is sealed to prevent ingress of airflow, other than through the inlet aperture 101. The
   air-proof seal between the contact surfaces of the hood and baseplate may be created by a rubber
   gasket material, resilient polymer, or other form of material that is capable of providing such an
   air-tight seal.
30          In Figures 1 and 10, the inlet aperture 101 includes a grille structure 102. The grille
   structure 102 comprises a grid-like arrangement of rods or strips.
            When the dryer is closed and in operation, the incoming airflow 200A enters the hand
   dryer 1 through the inlet aperture 101. For the purpose of illustration only, however, Figures 4
   and 5, which show an opened arrangement, nevertheless indicate the incoming 200A and

                                                      17
   outgoing 200C airflow as if the dryer 1 were notionally closed and in use. Also, in actual use, the
   airflow that occurs inside and through the dryer 1 has a degree of turbulence.
   Fan
 5
            In Figures 4 and 5, the airflow 200A, 200B, 200C through the dryer 1 is created by
   airflow-generator in the form of a fan having a rotating fan-blade (not shown). The fan-blade
   revolves inside a fan-casing 400. Rotation of the fan-blade generates the airflow 200. The rotation
   of the fan-blade is operated by a fan-motor 405. The fan causes the airflow to flow from the inlet
10 to the outlet. The invention is not limited to a particular shape of fan-blade.
            In the embodiment, the fan, which is housed inside the fan-casing 400, is preferably a
   dual-fan comprising two fan-halves which together are adapted to draw airflow into the fan
   casing 400 from two opposite directions.
            In Figure 5, the dual-intake fan draws airflow into the fan-casing 400 from either side of
15 the casing. Having two inlet apertures into the fan-casing 400 provides for a greater rate of
   airflow into the fan-casing 400, than would be the case with a single aperture.
            Hence, in Figure 5, part of the airflow enters the fan-casing 400 through an aperture
   located in one side 401A of the casing. Another part of the airflow enters through another
   aperture in the other side 401B of the casing 400.
20          The fan is rotated by a fan-motor 405 that is at least partially housed in a motor-housing
   403.
            Part of the airflow, entering the other side 401B of the fan-casing 400, makes its way to
   the fan through a number of holes 402 located in the motor-housing 403. As the air enters through
   the holes 402, the air comes into contact or into proximity with parts of the fan-motor 405, and
25 the airflow is heated to an extent by heat generated from the fan-motor 405.
            Another part of the airflow, entering the other side 401B of the fan-casing 400, makes its
   way to the fan through a gap 407A between an adjacent outer surface of the fan-casing 400 and
   the motor-housing 403.
30 Air Heater
            In Figure 1, the dryer 1 may be provided with heating-apparatus in the form of a heating
   element. In Figure 4, the heating element is located in a vicinity 20 downstream of where the

                                                      18
   airflow leaves the fan-casing 400. The heating element includes a grid of wires or plates adapted
   to be heated electrically when the dryer 1 is required to emit a heated airflow.
            The heating element heats up the airstream 200B so that the expelled airflow 200C is
   sufficiently warm to dry the user's hands.
 5          In other modified embodiments, there may be no need for a separate heating-apparatus.
   For instance, when the dryer 1 is used in countries with warmer or tropical climates, an airflow
   that has been warmed merely by heat from the fan-motor 405 may be sufficient to dry the hands
   comfortably for the user. Alternatively, where the hand dryer 1 is used in colder climates or
   where the ambient temperature is colder, a separate heating-apparatus, in addition to the heat
10 from the fan-motor, may be provided.
            Moreover, in other embodiments, which are not designed as hand dryers, but rather
   designed to function primarily or solely as air purifiers, in such embodiments there may be no
   requirement for a separate heating-apparatus over and above whatever heating may occur as the
   airflow passes through or proximate the fan-motor 405.
15
                                            Germ-Killing System
            In the embodiment of Figure 1, the hand dryer 1 is provided with airflow-germ-killing
   system. The airflow-germ-killing-system is in a form that includes one or more germ-killing sub
20 systems. These airflow-germ-killing-system sub-systems, either individually, or preferably in
   combination or combinations, serve the purpose of killing germs in the airflow. Description of
   embodiments of these one or more sub-systems of the airflow-germ-killing-system are provided
   below, by way of example only.
            In the embodiments, various sub-systems of the airflow-germ-killing-system preferably
25 are adapted to enhance airflow through the dryer 1.
   THREE-DIMENSIONAL FILTER
            In the embodiment of Figures 1, 4 and 5, a sub-system of the airflow-germ-killing-system
30 comprises a three-dimensional filter structure in the form of a three-dimensional filter 410A. The
   phrase "three-dimensional filter structure" is used to distinguish it from another type of filter that
   consists of a generally two-dimensional, flat, planar sheet of filter material.
            In this specification, the term "three-dimensional filter structure" excludes and should not
   be construed to refer to microscopic features of the filter, for example, such as would require a

                                                      19
   microscope to readily discern. For example, the term "three-dimensional filter structure" does not
   cover microscopic gaps between individual strands or threads in the filter fibre. Hence, in this
   specification, the term "three-dimensional filter structure" is intended to relate to engineering
   design characteristics of a part of the apparatus, such as shown in the non-limiting examples in
 5 the drawings.
            In the embodiment of Figures 4, 5, and 6A to 6E, as an example, the three-dimensional
   filter 410A comprises air-filter-surfaces that define an encompassed filter interior region in the
   form of a filter interior 411 that is encompassed by the three-dimensional surfaces of the filter
   41 GA.
10          In the embodiment, by way of example, the three-dimensional filter 41 GA is shaped as a
   container or a box having an opening 412 at one side. The three-dimensional filter 410A has
   semi-circular ends 413. In the embodiment, the filter interior 411 is an encompassed space or
   region which is bounded by the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional filter 410A, and which
   has the opening 412 at one side.
15          The sectional cut-out view of Figure 6D shows that the three-dimensional filter 410A is
   formed as a container or a box with one side 412 fully opened.
            In this embodiment of the filter of Figures 6A to 6E, one entire side of the filter 410A is
   an opening 412, but in other modifications, the extent of the opening can be varied in terms of
   how much of the side is left open. For instance, in other modifications, merely part of a side may
20 be opened, or portions or more than one side may be opened. In other words, other embodiments
   are not limited to a configuration where only one complete side is fully open.
            In use, the three-dimensional filter 410A in Figure 4 is positioned in connection with the
   inlet aperture, which inlet aperture 101 is seen in Figures 1 and 3. In the embodiment, the filter
   410A is positioned over the inlet aperture 101 so that all of the airflow 200A, that enters into the
25 dryer 1 through the inlet aperture 101, first enters through the open side 412 and into the filter
   interior 411, and then passes through the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional filter 410A,
   and then is dispersed into the of inner chamber 13 of the hand dryer 1. It is through the open side
   412 that the airflow 200A, from the inlet aperture 101, is able to flow into the filter interior 411 of
   the three-dimensional filter 410A.
30          In other modifications, there may be an internal passageway that connects the three
   dimensional filter 410A to the inlet aperture 101, however, such internal passageways are not
   open to the main chamber 13, since the airflow can only enter the main chamber 13 after it has
   passed through the three-dimensional filter 410A.

                                                       20
             In Figures 6A and 6E, the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional filter 410A are in a
   form that comprise wall-structure. In Figures 6A and 6E, the wall-structure is in the form that
   comprises upright, side filter walls 414.
             The air-filter-surfaces are in a form that also comprise ceiling-structure. In Figure 6A, the
 5 ceiling-structure is in the form of a filter ceiling 415. The filter ceiling 415 has semi-circular ends.
   The side filter walls 414 depend from the rim of the filter ceiling 415. Hence the semi-circular
   ends of the ceiling 415 correspond in shape to the semi-circular ends 413 of the walls 414.
             Referring to Figure 6A, the filter ceiling 415 has a ceiling-frame 415A. The side filter
   walls 414 also have a wall-frame 414A. In manufacture, the ceiling-frame 415A may be
10 connected to the wall-frame 414A by any suitable joining mechanism, such as through sonic
   welding or by the use of adhesives to bond the frames 415A, 414A together, or through the use of
   mechanical connections.
             In the embodiment of Figure 6D, the opening 412 has generally the same structural shape
   as the filter ceiling 415.
15           In the embodiment of Figure 6D, the side filter walls 414 are generally perpendicular to
   the plane of the filter ceiling 415.
             In Figure 6A and 6E, the side filter walls 414 and the filter ceiling 415 combine to define
   therein the filter interior 411 that is encompassed by the three-dimensional surfaces of the filter
   41 OA.
20           In the embodiment, the three-dimensional nature of the filter 41 OA means that it has an
   encompassed internal volume, having height, length and breadth, which together define the filter
   interior 411 within the body of the filter 410A. The height of the filter walls 414 determine the
   height of the filter 41 OA. The filter interior 411 has a three-dimensional encompassed volume.
   This is distinguished from a generally flat sheet of filter material which, in this specification, is
25 not regarded as three-dimensional, having no encompassed interior space defined by height,
   length and breadth.
             In other modifications, the three-dimensional nature of the filter may be such that the
   wall-structure and ceiling-structure are part of a seamless, contiguous structure, such as a dome or
   mound. In even further modifications, the three-dimensional nature of the filter may be such that
30 the wall-structure and ceiling-structure are also a contiguous structure, such as a pyramid, cubic,
   or tent-shaped structure, even having rectangular sides, for example. In all these modifications,
   the modified three-dimensional filter would include an encompassed filter interior that has a
   three-dimensional volume. In other modifications, the open side 412 may alternatively be
   circular, square-shaped, rectangular, oval, or any suitable regular or irregular shape.

                                                        21
             In use of the embodiment of Figure 6D, the airflow 200A enters the dryer 1 through its
   inlet aperture 101, and then the airflow passes through the opening 412 of the three-dimensional
   filter 41 0A and into the filter interior 411. The air in the filter interior 411 is drawn through both
   the filter ceiling 415 and the upright filter walls 414. Thus, the airflow is dispersed in multiple
 5 directions exclusively through the wall and ceiling parts of the air-filter-surfaces of the three
   dimensional filter 410A. The airflow 200A is dispersed in multiple directions, for example in the
   embodiment, by being dispersed straight through the ceiling 415 portions, and also dispersed
   laterally through the upright, side filter walls 414.
             In modified embodiments where the three-dimensional filter structure is in the form of,
10 for example, a dome, pyramid or tent, whether regular or irregular-shaped in each case, the air
   filter-surfaces, that are arranged in substantially different orientations, enable the airflow to be
   dispersed in multiple directions. This is in contrast to airflow that disperses through a flat, sheet
   like planar filter in a generally consistent uni-direction.
             Compared to a scenario of using a flat, two-dimensional filter to span the inlet aperture
15 101, in contrast, the three-dimensional filter 410A of the present embodiment has a total
   combined surface area of the air-filter-surfaces, comprising the ceiling 415 portions and the
   upright filter walls 414, that provides a substantially and significantly larger surface area for the
   airflow 200A to enter the dryer 1. The larger effective surface area of walls and ceiling of the
   three-dimensional filter 410A enables a larger volume of airflow to pass through the filter 410A.
20           A greater filter surface area offers a larger air-transmission area through which the
   airflow 200A can pass through the three-dimensional filter 410A.
             Without being limited by theory, it is believed that the provision of a greater air
   transmission surface area equates to less resistance to the airflow. It is believed that, for a given
   amount of air that needs to pass through the filter, a filter provided with a greater air-transmission
25 surface area would offer less resistance to the airflow.
             Without being limited by theory, it is believe that having less resistance to the airflow
   may allow a less powerful fan-motor to be used to achieve the required rate of airflow through the
   hand dryer 1. Less powerful fan-motors, that drive the internal fan, may be linked to a lower
   degree of noise during use.
30           Alternatively, the lesser resistance to airflow may be utilized in a different manner, which
   is to use a more powerful fan-motor to achieve faster rates of airflow than would be possible
   without such a three-dimensional filter. In this regard, in the example of the hand dryer 1, the fan
   motor is preferably a universal motor with a rated speed of 13,000 to 14,000 rpm, which is
   generally suited for intermittent, stop-start operation. In the example, this higher speed motor

                                                         22
   configuration provides a very fast throughput of airflow which reduces the time needed for a user
   to dry his hands. Drying times of less than 11 seconds have been achieved in experimental
   embodiments, whereas in the marketplace drying times of double that, around 20 seconds, are
   often considered acceptable.
 5            Another advantage of the provision of greater surface area of such a three-dimensional
   filter is that it is able to last longer in use before needing replacement, compared to a filter that
   had less surface area. A filter with greater surface area would tend to take longer to reach a point
   of being clogged up and needing to be replaced.
              Another advantage is that the three-dimensional filter, with its larger surface area
10 compared to a flat two-dimensional filter, may offer a greater surface area that can potentially
   carry a larger amount of anti-germ substance.
              Another advantage is that, if all other factors were equal, a filter with greater surface area
   results in lesser resistance to airflow, which may tend to increase the lifespan of the fan-motor.
15 Filter Surface Structure
              In the embodiment of Figure 6D, the air-filter-surfaces may comprise a three-dimensional
   surface structure that is non-flat. In this specification, the phrase "non-flat" is not intended, and
   should not be construed, to refer to the microscope thread or strand filter structure that would be
20 discernible by a microscope. For instance, a piece of paper is regard as having a flat surface
   structure, even though under a microscope it would not. Hence, in this specification, the term
   "non-flat" is to be construed from the same perspective as viewing all the engineering design
   components as shown in the non-limiting exemplary drawings.
              In the embodiment, the non-flat surface structure may be a multi-faceted surface
25 structure. The multi-faceted surface structure further provides a larger effective surface area
   compared to a totally flat, sheet-like surface. A larger surface area offers a greater surface area
   through which airflow can pass through the filter.
              In the embodiment of the filter in Figures 4, 5 and 6A to 6E, the multi-faceted surface
   structure of the air-filter surfaces may be an undulating structure. The undulating structure may be
30 in a form that has a pleated, corrugated, rippled or zig-zag-shaped structure, any of which would
   distinguish the undulating surface structure from totally flat sheet material. The undulations may
   have sharp edges, as shown in example of Figure 6C, or the undulations may have curved or
   gently-contoured edges. In other words, the term multi-faceted in this specification includes, but
   is not limited to, a case where each of the facets is flat, as in the analogy of diamond facets.

                                                       23
             In Figure 6C, the multi-faceted surface structure comprises a corrugated or pleated
   structure, which are two alternative descriptive terms to describe the same structure shown in
   Figure 6C.
             In other modifications, the multi-faceted surface structure may comprise either a random
 5 or orderly, regular or irregular, pattern of three-dimensional bumps or protrusions on the surface
   of the three-dimensional filter structure. Such three-dimensional bumps or protrusions would
   likewise have an effect of increasing the available surface area of the filter through which air can
   flow, compared to the surface area of a flat, sheet-like surface of similar length and breadth.
             In the embodiment of Figure 6C, the cross-section of both the ceiling 415 portions and
10 the upright filter walls 414 have a corrugated or pleated structure consisting of alternating ridges
   416 and grooves 417. The ridges 416 have sharp edges along the length of the ridges. In other
   modifications, the ridges may have more gently-contoured, curved or rounded edges. For
   example, in other alternative embodiments, the multi-faceted, three-dimensional surface structure
   may include a corrugated structure where ridges and grooves are less pronounced, with the
15 structure resembling an undulating wave-like structure.
             Although the embodiments of surface structure shown in the illustrated embodiments
   comprise a regular three-dimensional surface structure, other modifications may comprise an
   irregular three-dimensional surface structure.
             Figure 10 shows a cross-sectional, cut-away view of the three-dimensional filter 41 GA of
20 Figure 5. A difference between the apparatus in each of Figure 5 and Figure 10 is that the former
   incorporates a first embodiment of a pump spray apparatus 700A, while the latter incorporates a
   second embodiment of a modified pump spray apparatus 700B (the pumps described below).
             In other modifications, the overall shape and size of the three-dimensional filter structure
   can be varied. For example, a modified embodiment in Figure 6F shows a larger three
25 dimensional filter 410B that has a modified overall shape that is different to the filter used in the
   earlier embodiment in Figure 4. In the modification in Figure 6F, the three-dimensional filter
   41GB has corrugated walls 414B and ceiling 415B that have a somewhat more orthogonal three
   dimensional structure, without the pronounced semi-circular ends 413 of the earlier embodiment
   of the filter of Figures 4, 5, and 6A to 6E.
30           For the sake of clarification, although the microscopic structure of the filter material may
   comprise interwoven fibres that, in other contexts, are regarded as three-dimensional, instead, in
   this specification, the three-dimensional nature of the filter, and also the nature of its filter surface
   structure, are regard here as being three-dimensional by having with regard to its overall design
   macrostructure as shown in the appended drawings, rather than its microstructure.

                                                      24
   Filter Insertion
            In the embodiment of Figures 4, 5 and 6B, and in the filter shown in Figure 10, the three
 5 dimensional filter 410A is able to be seated on a tray-structure. The tray-structure is in the form
   of a tray-frame 424 that has semi-circular ends 425, such that the shape of the tray-frame
   correlates with the cross-section shape of the three-dimensional filter 41 0A that is able to be
   seated on the tray-frame 424. The shape of the plan view of the tray-frame 424 corresponds to the
   shape of the base of the three-dimensional filter 41 GA.
10          In Figure 6B and Figure 10, the tray-frame 424 has an open central region 428. The open
   central region 428 is traversed by a grille structure 426. The grille structure 426 comprises an
   arrangement of crisscrossed rods that span from one side of the frame to the other in a grid-like
   arrangement. In Figure 6B, the ends of the rods, of the grille structure 426, are supported by the
   tray-frame 424. In the cross-sectional view of Figure 10, a sectional view of the tray-frame 424 is
15 shown with the three-dimensional filter 410A seated thereon.
            In Figure 6B, the tray-frame 424 has a peripheral rim 429. When the filter 410A is seated
   on the tray-frame 242, the rim 429 prevents the filter 410A from moving from side to side when
   the airflow 200A passes through the filter 410A.
            In the embodiments of Figures 5 and 10, the tray-frame 424 is able to slide into place in
20 the hand dryer 1, with the base of the three-dimensional filter 410A attached to the tray-frame
   424.
            In Figure 10, the tray-frame 424 has a base portion. The base portion has lateral sides that
   are each provided with a pair of elongated, outwardly projecting strips 427 that, in use, are able to
   slide in corresponding elongated grooves in the hand dryer 1. Slotting of the strips 427 into the
25 grooves serves to anchor the three-dimensional filter 41 0A in order to provide resistance to the
   force of the airflow that flows through the filter 41 0A during operation of the hand dryer 1.
            When the filter 410A needs to be replaced, the tray-frame 424 is slid out of place, a
   replacement filter attached to the tray-frame 424, and the tray-frame slid back into place in the
   hand dryer 1. Thus, the three-dimensional filter 41 GA, 41GB in its various embodiments, which is
30 seated on the tray-frame 424, is able to be replaceably slid into position.
   MULTI-LAYER FILTER

                                                          25
              In the embodiment in Figure 6D, a further sub-system, of the overall airflow-germ
   killing-system, relates to the air-filter-surfaces that comprise multiple layers of different filter
   material. The multiple layers of the air-filter-surfaces are seen in the cross-sectional view of
   Figure 6C.
 5            The cut-away, cross-sectional drawings of Figures 6C and 6D show that the ceiling 415
   portions and the upright filter walls 414 are each made up of multiple layers. Each of these layers
   comprises a different filter material with distinguishing characteristics. Each of the different
   layers of filter material perform a different function.
              In the embodiment, the layers of different filter material are ordered in a certain
10 sequence, because adjoining layers perform roles that depend on the order of the layers in the
   sequence of layers.
              In the embodiment in Figure 6D, in the upright filter walls 414 and in the ceiling 415
   portion, there is a first layer 418, a second layer 419, and there may be at least a further third layer
   420. The layer-sequence will be described, starting with a description of the filter that is nearest
15 to the filter interior 411, and then proceeding to the filter that is next furthest away from the filter
   interior 411. The first 418, second 419 and the preferred third filter layers 420 are shown in the
   cut-away drawing in Figure 6C.
              The filters are described in that sequential order because, in the embodiment, the filter
   interior 411 is where the airflow 200A first enters the hand dryer 1 apparatus. Therefore, as the
20 airflow 200A passes through the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional filter 410A, it is the
   first filter layer 418, of the layer-sequence, that makes initial contact with the airflow 200A.
   First Layer
25            In the sequence of layers, the first filter layer 418 comprises: a germ-killing filter layer in
   the form of germ-killing filter 418.
              The expression, first layer, is used to describe the germ-killing filter 418 because this is
   the first layer of the three-dimensional filter 41 GA that, in use, initially encounters the incoming
   airflow 200A.
30            The incoming airflow 200A, which is drawn from a human-activity ambient environment,
   contains germs.
              The first filter, the germ-killing filter 418, carries germ-killing substance. As the
   incoming airflow 200A passes through the first filter 418, germs in the airflow are killed in the
   first germ-killing filter 418.

                                                      26
             The germ-killing substance, carried by the first germ-killing filter 418, can be any
   suitable substance that is adapted to kill germs in the airflow 200A. Examples of suitable germ
   killing substances are as follows: Nano-TiO 2, nano SiO 2 and nano ZnO 2. An example of a filter
   material used for the first germ-killing filter 418 consists of: 77% polyester and 19%
 5 polypropylene fibres, together with 2.6% nano-TiO 2, 0.7% nano SiO 2 and 0.7% nano ZnO 2. The
   embodiment is not limited to this particular type of filter, and other appropriate antibacterial filter
   material may be used.
             It is appreciated, however, that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any
   particular germ-killing substances being carried in the germ-killing filter layer, and can be varied
10 and adapted depending on the nature of germs that are encountered in a particular ambient
   environment.
   Second Layer
15           The second layer 419 of the three-dimensional filter 410A is the second in the layer
   sequence that the incoming airflow 200A encounters as it moves through the three-dimensional
   filter 410A.
             The second layer 419 comprises a germ-killing-substance interception filter layer that
   intercepts or substantially intercepts the germ-killing-substance that come from the first layer 418.
20           In the embodiment in Figure 6D, the germ-killing-substance interception filter layer
   comprises a filter layer that is impregnated with charcoal or carbon.
             An example of a filter material used for the second layer 419 consists of a nonwoven mix
   of functional polyester and bonding bicomponent fibers with polyester core and co-polyester
   sheath, impregnated with ethylacrylate-vinylchloride-copolymer, polyfosfate flame retardant,
25 activated carbon powder and black pigment. The embodiment is not limited to this particular type
   of filter, and other appropriate carbon or charcoal-impregnated filter material may be used.
             When the airflow 200A moves through the air-filter-surfaces of the three-dimensional
   filter 41 0A, a portion of the germ-killing-substance may come off the first filter 418 and thus
   enter the airflow. Some germ-killing-substance, which are deadly to germs, may likewise be
30 harmful to humans. Hence, the carbon or charcoal in the second layer 419 intercepts any germ
   killing substance that comes from the first layer 418. As a consequence, the second layer 419
   prevents, or at least minimises, the amount of germ-killing-substance that is allowed to be carried
   by the airflow into the inner chamber 13 of the hand dryer 1.

                                                      27
            The impregnated carbon or charcoal in the second layer 419 is also able to remove smells
   and odors from the airflow. For example, some germ-killing substance, that are needed to kill
   highly toxic germs, may themselves have malodors or smells. Hence, the charcoal may also
   remove or at least minimise the extent of those smells in the airflow that enters the inner chamber
 5 13 of the hand dryer 1. Thus, as a result of the second layer 419, the airflow that enters the inner
   chamber 13 is able to be substantially free of malodours.
   Third Layer
10          In the embodiment, the three-dimensional filter 41 GA may be provided with a third layer
   420 which comprises: a material entrapment layer that entraps at least any filter material that
   come from or is released from the first filter layer 418 or from the second filter layer 419.
            In the embodiment, as the airflow 200A flows through the first two filter layers 418, 419,
   microscopic fibers or particles, originating from the material from which the first 418 and second
15 419 filter layers are made from, may be released into the airflow 200A. If these microscopic
   fibers or particles in the airflow were to be released in the outgoing airflow 200C that exits from
   the hand dryer 1, then, once these are released into the ambient environment, these minute objects
   may cause irritation, for instance, in the nasal passages or eyes of people in the human activity
   environment. Such microscopic fibers or particles may be particularly irritating to people that
20 suffer from allergies.
            In the embodiment, in this third layer 420, the material entrapment layer includes anti
   fiber-migration filter material. The material entrapment layer includes a fiber material that is able
   to entrap the said material that may emanate from the first 418 and second 419 filters.
            An example of an anti-fiber-migration filter material comprises a polyester fabric of
25 greater than 85% polyester component, and less than 15% binder resin. The third layer 420 of the
   embodiment is not limited to this particular filter material, and other suitable materials may be
   used based on their ability to intercept said material that may emanate from the first 418 and
   second 419 filters.
30 Layers: Modifications
            In other modified embodiments, the first, second and third layers may be embodied, not
   merely as discrete layers, but alternatively may be in the form of functional layer-regions. For
   instance, a modified embodiment may have two or more initial sub-layers that both perform the

                                                      28
   function of killing germs. In this example, the two germ-killing sub-layers combine to form a first
   functional layer-regions. Each of the sub-layers, in this first functional layer-regions, may carry a
   different germ-killing substance for killing different variety of germs. In other words, the first
   layer-region is not restricted to being just one layer, but may have two or more layers having
 5 similar functional characteristics.
            Likewise, the second layer-region may have two or more layers each sharing similar
   functions.
            Likewise, the preferred third layer-region may have two or more layers each sharing
   similar functions.
10
   INTERCHANGEABLE ANTI-GERM MATERIAL
            In Figure 6B, the airflow-germ-killing-system of the hand dryer 1 may optionally
   includes a further germ-killing sub-system that comprises germ-killing-substance positioner in the
15 form of a mounting structure 421, 422, 423. This germ-killing-substance positioner is a preferred
   feature that is not necessarily present in all embodiments.
            The mounting structure is able to position one or more sources of one or more air
   diffusible germ-killing-substances inside the filter interior 411.
            The air-diffusible germ-killing-substances are characterised in their ability to air-diffuse
20 upon engagement with any airflow in the filter interior 411. Before air diffusion occurs, each of
   the one or more sources is initially in the form of a solid or gel. Then, when the airflow 200A
   flows over the air-diffusible germ-killing-substances, the substances are diffused into the airflow,
   mostly by an evaporation mechanism.
            The mounting structure includes tablets 421 that have an outer frame 422. In the
25 embodiment, the air-diffusible germ-killing-substances is in the form of a block of gel that is
   carried inside the frame 422. The frame 422 has an internal mesh (not shown) that acts as a web
   that transverses the region within the frame 422. The gel is formed around this mesh. The mesh
   prevents the gel from falling off the frame 422.
            In the embodiment, the mounting structure also includes clasping mechanisms 423
30 located on the rods of the grille structure 426. The frames 422 are mounted on the grille structure
   426 by engaging with the clasping mechanisms 423.
            Figure 6B shows, for example, three such sources of air-diffusible germ-killing
   substances in the form of air-diffusible anti-bacteria tablets 421A, 421B, 421C.

                                                       29
             In the embodiment of Figure 6B, the active germ-killing-substance may be in the form of
   an air-diffusible gel. In use, as the airflow 200A rushes over the tablets 421, the germ-killing
   substance on each tablet progressively diffuses in the stream of airflow 200A that rushes over the
   tablets, thus infusing the airflow with the germ-killing-substance to kill the associated germs in
 5 the airflow.
             Optionally, there may be multiple sources where each of the tablets 421A, 421B, 421C is
   provided with a different germ-killing-substance that kills different types of germs.
             A range of available air-diffusible germ-killing-substances may be used for the tablets
   421A, 421B 421C, and their selection depends on their known properties for killing the type of
10 germs in a particular ambient human-activity environment.
             For example, in Figure 6B, there are shown three such tablets 421A, 421B, 421C, and
   these three tablets may each be carrying the same germ-killing-substance, or alternatively each of
   the tablets may each carry a different substance each designed to combat different type of germs.
             In the embodiment of Figure 6B, there is a synergy between the germ-killing first filter
15 418 of the three-dimensional filter 410A which, in this embodiment, acts in tandem with the
   optional air-diffusible anti-bacteria tablets 421A, 421B, 421C.
             On one hand, the first germ-killing filter 418 of the three-dimensional filter may be suited
   for carrying germ-killing-substance for killing germs that are of a ubiquitous variety, which are
   encountered week in week out. The germ-killing-substance on the first layer, the germ-killing
20 filter 418, is capable of lasting for a long time, such that the three-dimensional filter 410A tends
   not to have to be replaced frequently.
             On the other hand, the optional mounting structure 421, 422, 423 enables tablets to be
   interchanged and replaced as often as needed. This interchangeability also provides a degree of
   customization, which enables different germ-killing-substance to be placed in position, or later
25 replaced with other different substances. For example, epidemic-level germs, such as the SARS
   or HiNi virus, can tend to prevalent for a limited season. Hence, administrative operators of the
   hand dryer 1 can insert customized tablets 421, as the need arises, to adapt and respond to newly
   discovered threats of emerging viruses.
             Moreover, in a preferred embodiment, the ability to optionally mount the tablets 42 1A,
30 421B, 421C, each having different germ-killing substances thereon, enables the administrative
   operators of the hand dryer 1 to utilize tablets carrying two or more different germ-killing
   substances so as to combat several types of major prevailing viruses at the same time, rather than
   being limited to using only one type of germ-killing substance at a time.

                                                       30
            Also, it is observed that the germ-killing substances, often needed to combat highly
   virulent viruses, such as the HIN1 virus, may also be toxic to humans. Hence, the ability to
   position these human-toxic anti-bacteria tablets 421A, 421B, 421C inside the internal filter
   interior 411 of the three-dimensional filter 410A means that any human-toxic substances, diffused
 5 off the tablets 421 into the airflow 200A, may be intercepted by the second layer 419 of the three
   dimensional filter 410A.
            It is noted that these tablets 421A, 421B, 421C ideally would not be used to carry
   fragrance or perfume since these substances would be trapped or intercepted by the charcoal layer
   in the second filter 419, thus nullifying the influence of the fragrance in the airflow 200C emitted
10 from the dryer 1 back into the human activity environment.
            Figure 6G is a perspective view of a modification to the three-dimensional filter of Figure
   6A in which the filter structure is provided with an external rack 430 for carrying pieces of
   preferably fragrance-effusing material 431 to be effused into the airflow. The fragrance material
   is placed outside of the three-dimensional filter 410A so that the fragrance material is not
15 intercepted by any of the layers of that filter 410A, particularly the second layer which is
   impregnated with carbon or charcoal.
   Wick
20          In the embodiment of Figure 7, the airflow-germ-killing-system of the hand dryer 1 may
   optionally include a further germ-killing sub-system that comprises a wick-delivery-system.
            In the embodiment of Figure 7, the wick-delivery-system is in a form of a wick filter
   arrangement 612 that includes an air wick 600. The air wick 600 is able to effuse an anti
   bacterial, germ-killing liquid that is stored in a replaceable container. The replaceable container is
25 in the form of one or more replaceable bottles 610.
            In Figure 7, part of the airflow enters the fan-casing 400 through the aperture that is
   located in the one side 401A of the casing which is located further away from the motor-housing
   403. The air wick 600 is positioned in front of the aperture in the side 401A of the fan-casing 400
   which is located further away from the motor-housing 403.
30          The air wick 600 is arranged so as to be dipped in the liquid that is inside the bottle 610.
   As airflow 200 in the inner chamber 13 flows past the wick 600 as it enters the fan-casing 400,
   the liquid in the bottle 610 is drawn up through the wick and is dispersed into the airflow as it
   enters the fan-casing 400.

                                                       31
             In the embodiment of Figure 7, the wick filter arrangement 612 also includes a filter
   holder 611 that is able to support a further germ-killing-substance interception filter layer in the
   form of wick filter arrangement 612.
             The wick filter arrangement 612 may comprise one or more layers of filter that performs
 5 a similar role to the second layer 419 of the three-dimensional filter 410, namely to intercept or
   substantially intercept the germ-killing-substance in the airflow that comes from the wick 600,
   before the airflow enters the fan-casing 400. For a non-limiting example of a filter material
   useable with this filter holder 611 for interception of germ-killing substances, see the example
   given above use with for the second layer 419 of the three-dimensional filter 410A, since the
10 function of both of these filters is to intercept germ-killing substances.
             Figure 8A shows an exploded view of the wick filter arrangement 612, comprising the
   wick 600 that is attached to the bottle 610, the filter 613, and the filter holder 611. The filter
   holder 611 has a pair of resilient pincers 614 that are adapted to hold the neck of the bottle 610.
   The filter 613 is provided with a slot 615 that fits over the pincers 614. When assembled, the
15 bottle 610 is held by the pincers, and the filter is held by the pincers.
             The wick filter 613 is also able to intercept moisture in the airflow, for instance any
   moisture emanating from the wick 600, so as to minimise the likelihood of moisture being in the
   air by the time the airflow reaches the optional heating element. In the embodiment, as
   mentioned, the optional heating element is located in the vicinity 20 downstream of where the
20 airflow exits the fan-casing 400.
             In other modifications, the filter holder 611 may also support a further material
   entrapment layer that performs a similar role to the third layer 420 of the three-dimensional filter
   410, namely to entrap at least any filter material that come from the material of the wick filter
   613. For a non-limiting example of a filter material useable with this further material entrapment
25 layer, see the example given above use with for the third layer 420 of the three-dimensional filter
   41 GA.
             Figure 8B shows a further modification where multiple fluid reservoirs 610 with wicks
   600 are provided. Having multiple reservoirs enables a user to infuse a wider range of materials
   into the airflow. For instance, one bottle may contain an anti-germ or anti-bacteria fluid, while the
30 other bottle may contain a fragrance liquid.
             In a further possible modification, the wick 600 and bottle 610 may be placed inside the
   filter interior 411 that is within the three-dimensional surfaces of the filter 410A, 410B. In such a
   modification, the three-dimensional filter 41 GA, 41 GB is made of sufficient size to accommodate
   the wick and bottle within. An advantage of such an embodiment is that any harmful substances,

                                                     32
   distributed by the wick, can be subsequently intercepted by the charcoal filter material in the
   second layer 419 of the three-dimensional filter 410A.
            The embodiment in Figure 5, in contrast to the modification in Figure 7, omits the wick
   600 and bottle 610, indicating that the wick mechanism is a preferred feature that is not
 5 necessarily present in all embodiments.
            Examples of germ-killing-substance in liquid form that can be delivered by the wick
   mechanism, include known available anti-bacterial liquids that can be effused into the air to kill
   germs, and the embodiment is not intended to be limited to any one type of substance for this
   purpose.
10
   Selection of Different Options Of Delivery
            In the exemplary embodiments, the air wick 600 in Figure 7 and the tablets in Figure 6B
   are preferred features.
15          The wick filter arrangement 612 in the exemplary embodiment of Figure 7 is useful for
   delivering substances that are ideally delivered from a liquid source, such that the liquid
   substance is stored in the bottle 610 for delivery into the airflow via the wick.
            The tablet system in the exemplary embodiment of Figure 6B is useful for delivering
   substances that are ideally delivered from a solid source, such as a gel.
20          Hence, in various embodiments, the decision on whether to include a wick or tablet
   system may be influenced by the nature of substance that needs to be delivered into the airflow,
   and/or depending perhaps on the nature of germs that need to be killed in a particular ambient
   human-activity environment.
25 SPRAY
            In Figure 5, the airflow-germ-killing-system of the hand dryer 1 may optionally includes
   a further germ-killing sub-system in a form that may include germ-killing-substance-sprayer.
   Several exemplary, non-limiting variants of germ-killing-substance-sprayer will be described
30 below by way of example only.
   Spray Pump Variant 1

                                                      33
             Figure 5 shows a germ-killing-substance-sprayer in the form of a pump spraying
   apparatus 700A.
             A function of the pump spraying apparatus is to emit a brief burst of spray of anti
   bacterial liquid into the airflow 200C that exits the dryer 1.
 5           Although several embodiments are described below, the embodiments of the invention
   are not limited to any one of these exemplary spray mechanisms, since other variations can be
   proposed to achieve a similar pumping spray action. (In the partial illustration of Figure 4, the
   pump spraying apparatus 700A has been omitted from the cut-away diagram in order to show, in
   the illustration, the tapered passageway 16 which are located behind the pump spraying apparatus
10 700A when all assembled).
             In Figure 5, the pump spray apparatus 700A introduces yet further germ-killing
   substance, in the form of a liquid anti-germ substance, to the airflow by spraying the germ-killing
   substance into the airflow. The spray liquid comprises an anti-bacterial germ-killing liquid, and
   may also include a fragrance liquid provided that there is no chemical reaction between the anti
15 bacterial liquid and the fragrance substance.
             Preferably, this further germ-killing-substance is sprayed into the airflow at a location
   where the germ-killing-substance does not become coated on surfaces of the apparatus itself. In
   the embodiment of Figure 5, the pump spray apparatus 700A is arranged to spray the liquid anti
   germ substance into the airflow at a point where the airflow has already exited the hand dryer 1.
20           In the embodiment, the liquid anti-germ substance is sprayed in such a way that the anti
   germ substance from the spray apparatus 700A emerges through a spray-outlet in the form of
   spray aperture 758, and enters the airflow where the airflow is already outside the dryer 1
   mingling with the ambient human-activity environment. The spray apparatus 700A sprays the
   anti-germ substance into the airflow that is already outside of the apparatus 1 so that the force of
25 the airflow carries the substance onto the user's hands when the users expose their hands to the
   exiting airflow 200C.
             In other words, the anti-germ substance from the spray apparatus 700A is preferably not
   sprayed inside the apparatus 1 itself. This is to minimise the likelihood of build-up of the sprayed
   anti-germ substance on internal surfaces of the dryer 1, which could otherwise occur if the anti
30 germ substance were to be sprayed into the airflow while the airflow is still inside the dryer 1.
             Alternatively, in a yet further embodiment, the spray apparatus 700A may spray the
   liquid anti-germ substance directly onto the user's hands, however, even in such a modified
   embodiment, the substance is sprayed in such a manner that it avoids or substantially minimises
   the substance reaching and coating surfaces of the apparatus 1 itself.

                                                       34
             In the embodiment, the liquid anti-germ substance may be a non-alcohol-based liquid,
   since it is found that the airflow around the person's hands, as the liquid is blown onto the hands,
   is sufficient to dry the liquid without the added effect of alcohol evaporation.
             In other embodiments, if desired, the liquid anti-germ substance may be an alcohol-based
 5 liquid which is able to rely on alcohol evaporation to expedite drying of the liquid on the user's
   hands.
             The liquid anti-germ substance, that the spray apparatus 700A sprays onto the user's
   hands, may be a mild antiseptic substance, and not a powerful toxic anti-germ substance which
   could inadvertently be toxic or irritating to humans.
10           In the embodiment of Figure 5, the pump spray apparatus 700A includes a pumping
   mechanism that is able to be activated to emit a brief burst of spray.
             In this first exemplary variant of the pumping mechanism, in Figure 5 and Figures 9A to
   9D, the pumping mechanism includes a solenoid-driven pump mechanism. The hand dryer 1 is
   provided with a microprocessor and electrical circuit that is programmed to determine when to
15 instruct and activate the solenoid 750A, 750B to drive the pump.
             In Figure 9A, the pump spray apparatus 700A includes a reservoir container 751
   supported on a circular holder 752. The reservoir container 751 is able to hold a quantity of liquid
   such as an anti-germ substance in liquid form. In other modifications, the anti-germ liquid
   substance may also include a fragrance mixed into the anti-germ liquid.
20           In Figure 9D, the container 751 is provided with an exit nipple 753 which engages with a
   corresponding hole 754 in a nozzle cap 755. The nozzle cap 755 presses on an internal spring
   loaded pump tube, whereby pressing on the nozzle cap 755 causes a pumping action. Each
   depression of the cap 755 draws out an amount of liquid from the container 751. To emit several
   bursts of spray, the nozzle cap 755 is pressed several times for as many times as are required.
25           The hole 754 in the nozzle cap is connected via an internal channel to an exit nipple 756.
   A thin tube 757 connects the exit nipple 756 to the spray aperture 758.
             In Figure 9D, the solenoid includes two reciprocable components 750A, 750B. Activation
   of the solenoid causes the outer one of these two components 750B to move so as to press against
   the nozzle cap 755. This pressing action causes an amount of liquid to be pumped out of the
30 container 751, through the internal channel, then through the thin tube 757, and finally to be
   sprayed out through the spray aperture 758. The spray aperture 758 is shaped to cause the liquid
   to be emitted as a fine mist of droplets of the liquid.
             In Figure 9C, the exit-facia plate 15 is provided with a circular hole 759. The liquid
   sprays from the spray aperture 758 through this circular hole 759.

                                                      35
            In Figure 9C, the exit-facia plate 15 is provided with an aperture 19 that enables sensors
   17 to have a clear line of sight to the region where the user's hands would be placed when using
   the hand dryer 1. In various modifications, the number of sensors 17 can be varied. In the variant
   in Figure 3 there are three sensors 17, while in the variant of Figure 9C there are two sensors,
 5 although the number of sensors may be modified.
   Spray Pump Variant 2
            In Figure 10, a second exemplary variant of a pumping mechanism makes use of an
10 eccentric drive to perform the act of intermittently pressing against a modified nozzle cap 755A to
   activate a burst of spray.
            Figures 11 A and 11B show the eccentric drive 760 that moves a rocking arm 763 that
   intermittently presses on the nozzle cap 755A to emit a spray.
            The sequence of diagrams in Figures 12A to 12D illustrate the movement of the rocking
15 arm 763 that enables the arm to intermittently press against the nozzle cap 755A.
            In the embodiment of Figures 11 A and 1IB, the nozzle cap 755A is provided with a
   spray-outlet in the form of an atomizer spray duct 758A. When the rocking arm 763 presses on
   the nozzle cap 755A, a small burst of liquid is emitted from the spray duct 758A. The liquid is
   drawn from an internal reservoir container that resides inside the reservoir shell 701 of the
20 modified pump spray apparatus 700B.
            As the rocking arm 763 presses on and lifts off the nozzle cap 755A, the spray duct 758A
   reciprocates back and forth. Hence, in the embodiment of Figure 14A, the exit-facia plate 15, of
   that particular modification, is provided with an elongated aperture 759A to reveal the spray duct
   758A. The aperture 759A is elongated so as to reveal the spray duct 758A throughout the range of
25 its reciprocal motion.
            Consequently, in the modification in Figure 12E, the nozzle cap 755A is provided with a
   semi-cylindrical shield 755B. The shield 755B fits across whatever portion of the elongated
   aperture 759A that is not taken up by the spray duct 758A. The shield 755B seals the aperture
   759A to prevent ambient air entering from the aperture 759A into the inner chamber 13. The seal,
30 created by the shield 755B and the elongated aperture 759A, may be enhanced by a resilient
   gasket material or other suitable methods of enhancing seals to prevent ingress of air.
            In Figure 12A to 12E, and Figure 13A and 13B, the eccentric drive 760 is formed around
   an axial shaft 761 of a spray-pump motor 762. The eccentricity of the drive 760 imparts a rocking

                                                      36
   motion to the pivotal rocking arm 763 that has a lower end 764. The lower end 764 is adapted to
   press against the nozzle cap 755A.
             Figure 11 A shows an arrangement where the nozzle cap 755A is not depressed by the end
   764 of the rocking arm 763.
 5           Figure 11 B shows the same arrangement with the nozzle cap 755A is depressed by the
   end 764 of the rocking arm 763 that causes liquid to be sprayed through the atomizer spray duct
   758A.
             In use, when a user places his hands underneath the hand dryer 1 to dry his wet hands, the
   sensor or sensors 17 detect the presence of the hands. An electrical control circuit instigates the
10 pump spray apparatus 700B to emit one or more bursts of sprayed liquid.
             In the embodiment, electrical control circuit includes a spray-stop-start system
   comprising a combination of components, as described below:
             In the rotational sequence in Figures 12A to 12D, the shaft 761 rotates around its axis.
   The circular cross-section of the eccentric drive 760 is not concentric with the axis of the shaft
15 761. Rather, the circular cross-section is biased towards one lateral side of the axial shaft 761.
   Therefore, as the shaft 761 rotates axially, the biased portion of the body of the eccentric drive
   760 moves around the axis of the shaft 761.
             (For illustration sake only, in Figure 12A the body of the eccentric drive 760 generally
   points around 3 o'clock; in Figure 12B the eccentric drive 760 generally points around 6 o'clock;
20 in Figure 12C the eccentric drive 760 generally points around 9 o'clock; in Figure 12D the
   eccentric drive 760 generally points around 11 o'clock; which brings the eccentric drive 760 back
   to its starting position generally around 3 o'clock in Figure 12A.)
             In order to communicate to the spray-stop-start system that a burst of spray has been
   emitted, the shaft 761 is provided with a laterally projecting tab 765. The end of the tab carries a
25 small magnet, and this magnet rotates in a circular path as the tab 765 rotates with the axial shaft
   761. In the embodiment, the magnet is a rare earth magnet.
             In Figures 11 B and 12B, a Hall-sensor 766 is positioned in front of a window 767 that is
   positioned on a portion of the circular path of the magnet. The Hall-sensor 766 is part of an
   electrical circuit on a printed circuit board 768 of the electrical control circuit that is housed in the
30 body of an internal component of the apparatus.
             The Hall-sensor 766 is able to detect the magnetic field from the magnet on the tab 765,
   each time the tab rotates past the window. In Figure 12C, the arrangement is such that the tab 765
   passes the Hall-sensor 766 at or proximate the point when the rocking arm 763 presses on the
   nozzle cap 755A to emit the spray. Thus, each passing of the tab 765 over the Hall-sensor

                                                      37
   communicates to the control mechanism of the electrical circuit that a single burst of spray has
   been emitted.
            Each 360 degree rotation of the eccentric drive 760 equates to one rocking motion of the
   lower end 764 of the rocking arm 763, which equates to one press of the pump, which equates to
 5 a single spray emitted from the spray duct 753A.
            Thus, each single full rotation of the shaft 761 corresponds to one pump action that emits
   one burst of spray. Hence, the rotation of the tab 765 tells the control mechanism that one pump
   action has been effected, and thus the motor can stop gradually rotating.
            Thus, Figure 12A shows the rocking arm 764 in its rest position. When a user places his
10 hands beneath the hand dryer 1, the spray-stop-start system instructs the spray-pump motor 762 to
   start rotating, and it does so according to the rotational sequence of Figures 12B to 12D. When
   the tab 765 rotates past the Hall-sensor 766, the spray-stop-start system instructs the spray-pump
   motor 762 to gradually stop rotating such that it comes to back to its rest position shown in Figure
   12A. In the embodiment, this is achieved by the electrical control circuit gradually decreasing the
15 electrical current to the spray-pump motor 762 such that decelerates to a halt in its resting
   position of Figure 12A.
            In the embodiment of Figure 1, each time the user places his hands under the hand dryer
   1, either one or preferably two bursts of spray are emitted. In other embodiments, any number of
   bursts may be emitted as is considered desirable under the prevailing conditions.
20          In the embodiment, electrical control circuit instructs the spray-stop-start system
   instigates the emission of two bursts of spray, and the timing is such that a period of a few
   seconds elapses between the two bursts, for instance, five seconds in between each burst of spray.
            The spray can be activated at various times, depending on the intended outcome for the
   spray for each embodiment and modification. For example, in one scenario example, the spray
25 may be required merely to be sprayed into the airflow to cover a user's hands with the liquid anti
   germ substance. In such a scenario, the embodiment can includes the sensors 17 which identify
   when a user's hands are placed beneath. The embodiment includes an electronic circuit that
   connects the sensors 17 to the activation mechanisms of the pump spray apparatus 700A, so that
   the pumping mechanism is activated periodically during the timeframe that the sensors 17 detect
30 that the user's hands remain under the hand dryer while the user is drying his or her hands.
            In another scenario example, the apparatus 1 is embodied merely as an air purifier, for
   instance, that is designed to purify the ambient air in a living room or a public area. In such a
   scenario, the embodiment can includes an electronic timing circuit that periodically and
   simultaneously activates, firstly, the fan-motor 405 that drives the fan inside the fan-casing 400

                                                     38
   and, secondly, also activates the pump spray apparatus 700A to add the liquid substance into the
   outgoing airflow 200C. In various such embodiments, the sprayed liquid substance may be an
   anti-germ substance or a fragrance substance.
            In a preferred further embodiment of Figure 12E, the spray duct 758A is preferably
 5 positioned at the distal end of a protrusion 754. In the embodiment, the length of the protrusion
   754 allows the spray duct 758A to be positioned slightly away from internal regions of the hand
   dryer 1. Within the internal regions of the hand dryer 1, air is sucked into the fan-casing 400, and
   this movement of air towards the fan in the fan-casing 400 is experienced, to varying degrees,
   throughout the internal regions of the hand dryer 1 that are in communication with the inner
10 chamber 13. Therefore, the preferred protrusion 754 is able to position the spray duct 758A
   slightly away from the main inner regions of the hand dryer 1. Even though, in the further
   embodiment, the protrusion 743 is only about 2 mm, it is found that such a small extra distance
   aids to minimise the likelihood of sprayed substance being substantially sucked back inside the
   hand dryer 1.
15          In other embodiments, the position of the printed circuit board 768 may be re-arranged in
   other locations inside the inner chamber 13. In other embodiments, preferably the printed circuit
   board 768 is located in a position inside the chamber 13 where it is not directly underneath a
   potential source of liquid, such as directly beneath the replaceable bottles 610, or the internal
   reservoir container that resides inside the reservoir shell 701. In normal usage, it is not anticipated
20 that there would be any leakage from such sources of liquid, however, as a precaution again un
   intended failure of such liquid containers or liquid sources, the printed circuit board 768 is
   preferably located away from directly under these liquid sources, should any leakage occur, so as
   to avoid damage to the electrical circuitry.
25 Spray Pump Variant 3
            In Figure 14B, a third exemplary variant of a pumping mechanism is a modification
   which is provided with a stationary spray duct 758C that slightly protrudes from the undersurface
   of the exit-facia plate 15. The stationary spray duct 758C is arranged to spray its liquid into the
30 outgoing airflow 200C.
            Figure 14C shows cut-away portions of the variant of Figure 14B. A rocking arm 763
   rocks backwards and forwards in a manner described for the earlier embodiment. The lower end
   764 of the rocking arm 763 intermittently presses on a head of a plunger assembly 755C. Such
   depression of the plunger assembly 755C causes a burst of liquid to be emitted from the

                                                        39
   stationary spray duct 758C. The liquid is drawn from an internal reservoir container that resides
   inside the reservoir shell 701 into the plunger assembly 755C. A thin tube 757 connects the
   plunger assembly 755C to the stationary spray duct 758C.
 5 Placement of Anti-Germ Material and Substances
            Preferably, any anti-germ substance used in the first layer 418 of the three-dimensional
   filter 410, or in the filter interior 411 of the three-dimensional filter 410, for example the tablets
   421, is able to be substantially toxic to humans. This is because any such toxic materials are
10 entrapped by the second layer 419 of the filter 410.
            In contrast, preferably, any anti-germ substance used elsewhere in the filter interior 411,
   the airflow path and outside of the three-dimensional filter 410, is substantially non-toxic to
   humans. For example, any anti-germ material effused off the air wick 600 would be substantially
   non-toxic. Also, any anti-germ liquid sprayed by the pump spraying apparatus 700A onto a user's
15 hands would consist of substantially non-toxic material. There reference to "substantially non
   toxic" means that the materials are regarded as non-toxic when used according to prescribed
   guidelines, since such non-toxic substances may become toxic when used outside of guidelines
   for that particular material.
20 Exit of Airflow
            In partial Figure 4, and in partial Figure 5, after the airflow 200A emerges from the top
   and lateral sides of the three-dimensional filter 410, the airflow 200B moves within the inner
   chamber 13 until the airflow is sucked and drawn into the fan-casing 400.
25          In Figure 7, after the airflow is drawn into the fan-casing 400, the airflow 200C travels
   through the elongated, tapered passageway 16 until the air is exits the hand dryer 1 through the
   exit-aperture 14 which is located at the end of an elongated, tapered passageway 16.
            The tapered passageway 16 is shown in partial Figure 4 and Figure 7, and partially
   obstructed from view in Figure 5. The exist-aperture 14 is located in an exit-facia plate 15. The
30 exit-facia plate 15 is snap-fastened to the hood 10 by resilient claws 18.
            Note that Figure 4 is, in a sense, a cut-away or partial drawing because, in Figure 4, parts
   of the embodiment have been omitted from the drawing merely in order to show the tapered
   passageway 16, whereas Figure 5 provides a normal view in which the tapered passageway 16 is
   partly obstructed from view by the components.

                                                       40
   Air Freshener
            In other embodiments, the air purifying apparatus may be embodied, instead of a hand
 5 dryer 1, but rather as an air purifier or air freshener.
            In an embodiment of an air purifying apparatus, which is in the form an air purifier or air
   freshener, the apparatus and its components are substantially represented by the example given in
   the hand dryer 1, with the following preferred modifications:
            1)       An induction motor is used since the activity of an air purifier or air freshener can
10 require the apparatus to purify airflow for considerably longer time periods than an embodiment
   in the form of a hand dryer. An induction motor is more suited to this manner of operation than a
   universal motor. For instance, where a hand dryer might operate for less than a minute while the
   user dries his hands, an embodiment in the form of an air purifier or air freshener may operate, for
   instance, for an hour or so or longer, to continuously purify the ambient atmosphere of the
15 human-activity environment.
            2)       The motion sensor 17 may be arranged to detect motion in the wider vicinity
   around the apparatus, for instance, a person entering the room in which the air purifier or air
   freshener is installed, as compared to a hand dryer 1 where its motion sensor system is intended to
   detect the presence of a user's hands directly under the hand dryer.
20
   Alteration of Airflow Path Size
            In operation of the hand dryer 1, the fan, which is housed in the fan-casing 400, generates
25 an internal airflow 200B that is instrumental in transferring the anti-bacteria substances from
   various components of embodiments of the germ-killing system: such as the germ-killing filter
   418 of the three-dimensional filter 410A, the anti-bacteria tablets 421A, 421B, 421C, and the air
   wick 600.
            Without being limited by theory, in the exemplary embodiments, it is found that the
30 speed or rate of airflow over or through these components can influence the efficiency with which
   the anti-bacteria substances are transferred from the components into the airflow. Moreover, each
   type of component, from which the anti-bacteria substances emanate, may have an optimum
   airflow that differs for each components. Also, the rate of airflow throughput, and the speed of the
   airflow over each of the components, are influenced by a number of parameters, including such

                                                      41
   as: the power of the fan-motor, the shape of the spaces through which the airflow passes, the total
   volumetric size of the inner chamber 13, to name a few such parameters. Another relevant factor
   may be the level of noise which is generated by the fan-motor for any given rate of airflow
   throughput, with a tendency of higher noise levels being associated with faster motor speed.
 5          Hence, in each exemplary embodiments and in further modifications, there may be
   required some degree of experimentation to identify an achievable rate of airflow that is judged to
   be an optimum, having regard for the performance of each of the anti-bacteria-emitting
   components operating with that one rate of airflow throughput through the apparatus, as well as
   regard for the noise-level of the fan-motor.
10          Therefore, the embodiment may be provided with an airflow-path-size-alterable
   arrangement which enables adjustment of the size of the path through which the airflow passes.
            The embodiment of Figure 4 and Figure 5, and the embodiment in Figures 15A-C, is
   provided with airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement that enables adjustment of the size of at
   least part of the airflow path within the dryer 1.
15          In the embodiment, the airflow-path-size-alterable arrangement is in a form that includes
   a gap-adjustment plate 404 that enables adjustment of the size of the gap 407A. Adjustment of the
   size of the gap 407A either increases or decreases the size of the path through which airflow
   passes to reach the fan.
            The fan-motor 405 and motor-housing 403 are supported on the gap-adjustment plate
20 404.
            The plate 404 has one or more apertures through which parts of the fan-motor 405
   connect to the fan that is inside the fan-casing 400. For example, the fan-motor 405 has a rotating
   shaft that imparts rotation to the fan. The shaft passes through an aperture in the gap-adjustment
   plate 404. Part of the airflow passes through the holes 402 of the motor-housing, and then through
25 the aperture or apertures in the plate 404, en route to the fan in the fan-casing 400.
            The gap-adjustment plate 404 is attached to the fan-casing 400 by a number of supporting
   posts 406. In the embodiment, there are four such posts 406, but the number can vary in other
   modifications, for example, there may be three or four posts or other forms of support.
            In the embodied examples of Figure 4, 5, 7, 15A, 15B, the airflow-path-size- alterable
30 arrangement may be in the form of, or may include, an arrangement that facilitates adjustment of
   the gap-adjustment plate 404. The embodiment is not restricted to one particular mechanism for
   enabling adjustment of the size of the gap 407A. In the embodiment of Figure 5, and the
   embodiment in Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, adjustment of the gap 407A may be achieved by the
   selection of varying thickness of ring-like gaskets 408. The ends of the posts 406, have narrowed

                                                        42
   ends which receive the ring-like gaskets 408. The gap-adjustment plate 404 is provided holes that
   each correspond with the location of one of the posts 406. The gap-adjustment plate 404 is seated
   on the set of posts 406, with the gaskets 408 sandwiched in between. Selection of thicker gaskets
   causes the gap 407A to be wider, while selection of thinner gaskets causes the gap 407A to be
 5 thinner.
             In the embodiment, the gaskets 408 are preferably made of a resilient material such as
   natural rubber, artificial rubber, or a resilient polymer suitable for use as a resilient gasket. The
   resilient gaskets are able to at least partially absorb vibrations from the fan-motor 405.
             In the embodiment, the gap 407A is about 10 mm, and in the example it is found that
10 adjustments in the gap size in the order of around 10 to 20 mm, for example, may result in a
   noticeable change in the rate of airflow inside the inner chamber 13. This example of a 10 mm
   gap size, however, is not prescriptive for every other embodiment because experimentation is
   required in each configuration.
             In a further example, in the modification of Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, the airflow-path
15 size-alterable arrangement may also include, or may be in the form of a modified filter holder
   61 1A that is provided with slits 407B which act as pathways for the airflow to pass through en
   route to the fan that is inside the fan-casing 400. In the arrangement, the airflow-path-size is
   alterable by interchanging the filter holder 61 1A with a replacement holder that has a different
   sized flow path. The difference in flow path size can be achieved by modifying the replacement
20 holder to have larger slits and/or an increased number of slits.
             In the embodiment of Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, airflow passes through the two slits
   407B en route to the fan in the fan-casing 400.
             As the airflow passes through the slits 407B into the fan-casing, that airflow passes across
   the inner face of the filter 613 that is carried by the modified filter holder 61 1A.
25           Thus, at the filter holder 61 1A, part of the airflow passes directly through the filter 613,
   and another part of the airflow enters through the side slits 407B to pass across the rear face of the
   filter 613. Without being limited by theory, it is believed that movement of airflow, across the
   inner or rear face of the filter 613, partially contributes to the drawing of airflow through the front
   of the filter. (In Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, the inner or rear face of the filter is that portion that is
30 closer to the fan-casing).
             The one or more side slits 407B are adapted to allow, in use, a portion of the airflow to
   enter the filter holder through the one or more side slits 407B so as to pass across a rear face of
   the filter 613 while, in use, another portion of the airflow enters through the filter 613, such that

                                                       43
   the passage of airflow through the one or more side slits 407B serves to draw the airflow through
   the filter 613.
             In the embodiment of Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, preferably there are two side slits
   407B.
 5           In other modifications, preferably there are two slits 407B, but the number of slits 407B
   in the modified filter holder 611 A may vary from having one slit to having several slits.
             Preferably, as shown in Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, the two side slits 407B are provided
   only on one hemispherical half of the modified filter holder 61 1A, and not around the entire
   circumference or rim. Without being limited by theory, it is believed that having slits only on one
10 side contributes to a smoother airflow behind the inner face of the filter, thus avoiding a tendency
   for greater turbulence if the airflow were to enter through slits at opposing sides, for example.
             In referring to the provision of slits 407B only on one hemispherical side, it is understood
   that, in use, the one hemispherical side may be positioned at any location on the rim of the filter
   holder. In Figures 15A, 15B and 15C, the slits are positioned on a lateral side of the filter holder,
15 but in other modifications the slits may be positioned at a lateral top or bottom of the filter holder.
             In the embodiment, the combined flow paths, firstly provided by the gap 407A between
   the plate 404 and the fan-casing 400, and secondly provided by the slits 407B in the modified
   filter holder 61 1A, can be adjusted to achieve a desired rate of airflow through the dryer 1.
             The inner chamber 13 is a sealed enclosure, with the inlet aperture 101 being the only air
20 inlet aperture and the exit-aperture 14 being the only air exit. Therefore, preferably, the rate of
   airflow through the dryer 1 is set such that the amount of airflow 200A entering the apparatus is
   roughly equivalent to the amount of airflow 200C exiting the apparatus, in order to avoid
   fluctuations in pressure in the inner chamber 13 of the hand dryer 1.
25 Water-less Hand Washing
             Figure 16A shows yet another embodiment of an air purifying apparatus in the form of a
   hand cleaner-dryer 1A. The hand cleaner-dryer is adapted to be used in a method of water-less
   washing of hands, however, there are some spheres of activity where washing of hands with water
30 brings with it a set of disadvantages.
             Bacteria and germs breed and live in water. Without being limited by theory, it is
   believed that, when users wash their hands with water and do not properly dry their hands, a
   result is that the bacteria can be carried particularly in the moisture that remains on the hands.

                                                    44
   Even the drying of hands with paper towels can leave amounts of moisture on hands that can
   encourage bacteria growth on the hands.
            Normally, a user washes his hands with water, and then may use a hand drying apparatus
   to dry the hands in the stream of air.
 5          In contrast, in the embodiment of Figure 16A, a method of waterless washing of hands
   involves dousing the user's unwashed hands with a large quantity of anti-germ liquid, and using a
   high-speed stream of substantially germ-free air to dry the hands rapidly.
            The hand cleaner-dryer 1A has a baseplate 11 A that is able to be mounted on a wall
   during installation.
10          The embodiment of Figure 16A is provided with two sets of components of an airflow
   germ-killing-system both working in parallel in order to deliver the large quantities of anti-germ
   liquid and germ-free airflow onto the hands when implementing a system of water-less washing
   of hands.
            Large quantities of anti-germ liquid are stored in two large internal reservoir containers
15 701A.
            In use, airflow 200A enters the hand cleaner-dryer 1A through an inlet in the form of two
   inlet apertures 101A, and each stream of airflow immediately enters one of the larger three
   dimensional filter 4 1OB, described above in relation to Figure 6F.
            In an analogous manner to the operation of the embodiment shown in Figure 1, 4 and 5,
20 the present embodiment of Figure 16B operating on the basis of the airflow being purified by
   passing through the larger three-dimensional filter 4 1OB, and then entering into the inner chamber
   13A of the hand cleaner-dryer lA, and then bring drawn into a pair of fan-casings 400A, and then
   being expelled as an airflow 200C of substantially germ-free air from the cleaner-dryer lA
   through a pair of tapered passageway 17A. The outgoing airflow 200C is directed onto the user's
25 hands.
            In the example embodiment of Figure 16A, the hand cleaner-dryer lA is provided with
   modified embodiments of an airflow-germ-killing-system which have been described by way
   examples with reference to the earlier embodiment of Figure 1.
            For example, in the embodiment of Figure 16A, the intakes to the fan-casings 400A may
30 be provided with a wick-delivery-system such as in the examples described with reference to
   Figures 8A and 8B.
   Rotary Spray

                                                      45
            In the embodiment of Figure 16A, the hand cleaner-dryer 1A is provided with germ
   killing-substance-sprayer in a form that has a spray-outlet. The spray-outlet is in a form of an
   arrangement of several atomizer spray ducts 758B. In Figure 16A, five spray ducts 758B are
   arranged on a duct-support 749. Each of the spray ducts 758 are shaped to spray liquid in a
 5 roughly cone-shaped trajectory. On the duct-support 749, each of the spray ducts 758 is arranged
   to spray liquid in a different direction in order to allow the liquid to hit the user's hands in a range
   of varied directions.
            In a modified embodiment, the duct-support 749 may be rotated as spray is emitted from
   its spray ducts 758. In other modifications, the direction of rotation of the duct-support 749 may
10 be intermittently and periodically changed, for example, from clockwise to anti-clockwise.
            In Figure 16B, the several atomizer spray ducts 758B receive anti-germ fluid from the
   two large reservoirs via thin tubes 757A (which are not shown, for the sake of clarity, in the
   exploded view of Figure 16C or the partial view of Figure 16D).
            For the embodiment of Figure 16A, in use, when a user places unwashed hands
15 underneath the hand cleaner-dryer 1A, a large quantity of anti-germ liquid is expelled on the
   user's hands via the several atomizer spray ducts 758B. The outgoing airflow 200C of
   substantially germ-free air is used to dry the user's hands. In such a manner, the user's hands are
   able to be washed and dried without the use of water.
            In Figure 16D, each of the inlet apertures 101A, 101AA has a plane B-B1, B-B2 that
20 defines the front face of its opening. For each of the apertures 101A, 101AA their respective
   planes B-B 1, B-B2 are perpendicular to the central axis A-A, such that the face of each inlet
   apertures points directly downwards in the direction of the central axis A-A. In other words, in
   Figure 16D, the plane B-B1 of one of the inlet apertures is co-planar with the plane B-B2 of the
   other of the inlet apertures.
25
   Dual Direction Inlet Apertures
            Figure 17A shows another embodiment of an air purifying apparatus in the form of
   another hand dryer lB.
30          In the embodiment of Figure 17A, the incoming stream 200AA of the airflow is sucked
   into the hand dryer 1B through an inlet.
            In Figure 17A, the inlet is in the form of two inlet apertures 101A, 101AA. The two inlet
   apertures 101A, 101AA each draw in part of any incoming airflow 200AA in a lateral direction
   relative to a central axis AA of the housing of the hand dryer lB.

                                                      46
            Each of the inlet apertures 101A, 101AA draws in part of any incoming airflow 200AA
   from a different direction relative to other of the inlet apertures. Thus, in Figure 17A, one 101A
   of the inlet apertures draws in airflow from the left side of the axis A-A, while the other 101AA
   of the inlet apertures draws in airflow from the right side of the axis A-A.
 5          The two inlet apertures 101A draw in the incoming airflow laterally from the right hand
   side and left hand side of the central axis of the housing when mounted on a wall.
            In this embodiment, the inlet apertures 101A are arranged so as to receive air from either
   side of the hand dryer lB when mounted on a wall, in contrast to the embodiment of Figure 1
   which is arranged to receive air generally from directly beneath the apparatus.
10          Each of the inlet apertures 101A, 1O1AA has a plane B-B 1, B-B2 that defines the front
   face of its opening. For each of the apertures 101A, 101AA their respective planes B-B1, B-B2
   are not perpendicular to the central axis A-A, in order that the face of each inlet aperture points,
   to a degree, away from the central axis, and not directly downwards in the direction of the central
   axis A-A. In other words, in Figure 17A, the plane B-B1 of one of the inlet apertures is not co
15 planar with the plane B-B2 of the other of the inlet apertures. This is in order to maximise the
   area from which air can be actively drawn into the apparatus from the ambient human-activity
   environment.
            In further modifications, the number inlet apertures may be increased beyond two
   apertures. For instance, a modified unit may have four inlet apertures, with the faces of the inlet
20 apertures all pointing in a variety of directions to maximise the area from which air can be
   actively drawn into the apparatus from the ambient human-activity-environment.
            In other embodiments the angle of the plane B-B can be varied from just a few degrees
   from being perpendicular to the axis A-A, all the way to the plane B-B being parallel to the axis
   A-A.
25          An advantage of having an inlet, in the form of multiple inlet apertures which point in
   different directions relative to the axis A-A, is that the inlet apertures are thus able to draw in
   contaminated air from a wider region of the ambient human activity environment so as to be more
   efficient at purifying the ambient atmosphere of germs.
30 Arrangement Of Inlet & Outlet
            Prior art Figures 19A and 19B are schematic diagrams of end views a prior art hand dryer
   or air purifier viewed from beneath when the apparatus is mounted on a wall 3 or other upright
   surface. In each case, in the known hand dryers 805A, 805B in Figures 19A and 19B, when the

                                                      47
   apparatus is installed on the wall for use, the arrangement of the apparatus is such that the inlet
   801A is in between the wall 3 and the outlet 814. Without being limited to theory, it has been
   found that such an arrangement, resulting from the design of the known hand dryers 805A, 805B,
   tends to result in a significant build-up of dirt and grime on the exterior parts of the hand dryers
 5 805A, 805B.
            In contrast, in embodiments of the present invention in Figures 3, 16A and 17B, when the
   hand dryers and other air purifiers 1, 1A, 1B are mounted on a wall 3 or other upright surface, the
   arrangement of each of the apparatus is such that the respective inlet apertures 101, 101A, 101AA
   are not in between the wall 3 and the outlet 14 or whatever form of outlet each embodiment
10 provides.
            Rather, in Figures 3, 16A and 17B, in each embodiment, the inlet is alongside the outlet.
            In the embodiments of Figures 3, 16A and 17B, each apparatus has a baseplate 11, 11A.
   In each embodiment, the respective inlet apertures 101, 101A, 101AA are not in between the
   baseplate and the outlet 14 or whatever form of outlet each embodiment provides.
15          In Figures 1, 2 and 3, the inlet 101 is not between the outlet 14 and the baseplate 11. Both
   the inlet and the outlet are on the underside of the apparatus.
            In Figure 16A, the two inlets 101A are not between the outlets 14A and the baseplate
   11A.
            In Figure 16B, the two inlets lOlA, 101AA are not between the outlets 14B and the
20 baseplate of the embodiment of Figure 16B.
            Another way of describing the arrangements in Figures 3, 16A and 17B is that each inlet
   and outlet is arranged on the underside generally in a row or sequence where the direction of the
   row or sequence is generally alongside the base-mounting.
            For example, in Figure 3, the general direction of the row or sequence is shown as dotted
25 line R-R. This direction R-R is generally alongside the baseplate 11 that is also alongside the wall
   3.
            For example, in Figure 17B, the general direction of the row or sequence is also shown as
   another dotted line R-R. This direction R-R is generally alongside the baseplate 11 that is also
   alongside the wall 3.
30
   Substantial Size of Inlet
            By way of background, the airflow 200C that exits each air purifier 1, 1A, lB has been
   purified, and so the exiting airflow 200C will not contribute substantially or at all to build-up of

                                                      48
   dirt on the underside of the dryer 1, 1A, lB. Indeed, in use, the strength of the outgoing airflow
   200C deters un-purified air of the incoming airflow 200A from contacting a region of the
   underside that is proximate the outlet apertures 14B. In this specification, this general region that
   is, in effect, largely shielded from any incoming airflow 200A by the force and flow of the
 5 outgoing airflow 200C, is referred to by definition as an outgoing-airflow-protected-surface
   region.
             In the example of Figure 3, the approximate region of the outgoing-airflow-protected
   surface-region is regarded as being the entire half of the underside of the hood 10 indicated by the
   arrow I0A and dotted line S-S.
10           In another example of Figure 17B, the approximate region of the outgoing-airflow
   protected-surface-region is regarded as being around the central portion of the underside of the
   hood 10 indicated by the arrow 10AA and the dotted lines S-S.
             Build-up of dirt and grime occurs as the un-purified incoming airflow 200A passes across
   surface area of the hood 10 and its underside, over a period of time, resulting in a build-up of dirt
15 on these surfaces that are in regular contact with the un-purified incoming airflow 200A.
             In this regard, in the exemplary embodiments in Figures 3, 16A and 17B, on the surface
   where the outlet and inlet are positioned, it is preferable that the inlet aperture or apertures 101,
   101A occupy a very substantial portion of the surface that is outside the outgoing-airflow
   protected-surface-region. The effect is to minimise the amount of exposure to the incoming
20 airflow 200A experienced by the underside surface that is outside the outgoing-airflow-protected
   surface-region. In other words, it is a minimisation of the amount of surface area on which dirt
   can accumulate.
   Germ-killing-liquid-substance Modified Embodiment
25
             In a modified embodiment, a variant of the germ-killing-substance-sprayer of the dryer is
   provided with, and is thus able to spray, a germ-killing-liquid-substance. The germ-killing-liquid
   substance is sprayed into the outgoing airflow 200C in order for the germ-killing-liquid-substance
   to reach and sufficiently coat the user's hands.
30           In the modification, the germ-killing-liquid-substance preferably contains a disperser. In
   the modification, the disperser plays a role in enhancing the dispersal of at least one or more
   antimicrobial agents on the skin of the user's hands.
             Without being limited by theory, it is believed that the disperser acts as a carrier for at
   least one or more germ-killing components of the germ-killing-liquid-substance. As the disperser

                                                                                49
   is carried by the airflow 200C onto and dispersed over the user's hands, the disperser effectively
   aids in the dispersal of one or more germ-killing components over the skin of the user's hands.
             Preferably, the disperser comprises one or more surfactants, optionally including one or
   more super surfactants. The disperser may include an alkyl glucoside. Preferably, the disperser
 5 includes one or more glucosides, such as Decyl Glucoside and/or Octyl Glucoside.
             The mixture further includes at least one antimicrobial or biocide substance. The biocide
   may include one or more quaternary ammonium compounds. Preferably, the mixture includes a
   first biocide substance in the form of a quaternary ammonium salt of the formula:
                                   R               +
                           RI-N- R1                 X
                                    I
                                   R2
                   Ar is an optionally substituted aryl or heteroaryl group
                   Preferably, Ar is selected from optionally substituted phenyl, benzyl, napthyl and pyridyl
                   groups. Most preferably, Ar is an optionally substituted aryl group. Most preferably Ar is an
                   optionally substituted benzyl group.
                   Risany 6 or above unsubstituted branched or linear alkyl group
                   Preferably, R is any CS or above unsubstituted branched or linear alkyl group. More preferably, R is any C12
                   to C20 unsubstituted branched or linear alkyl group. Most preferably, Risany C12to C20 unsubstituted
                   lin ear alkyl group. Particularly preferred, R is an unbranch ed unsubstituted C18alkyl group.
                    Eachgroup Ri is ind ependently selected from any Ci to C4 branch ed or unbranched unsubstituted alkyl
                    Preferably, Riare each independently selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl and isopropyl. More preferably, RI
                    are each methyl groups.
                    X isa halideanion
10                  Preferably, X is a chlorid e, bromid e or iodide anion. Most preferably, X is a chlorid e anion.
             Still more preferably, the mixture includes a quaternary ammonium salt of the formula:
                                                                         CH               R2           +
                                                                RI-N-CH 2 -- t
                                                                         CH,
                                                       R1 is C, CO, C12, C14, C16, C18,
                                                       preferably C12, C14
                                                       R2 is H or CI - C5, preferably H
                                                       X is Br, Cl or F,preferably Cl
15           Most preferably, the first biocide substance is an Alkyl Dimethyl Benzyl Ammonium
   Chloride (BAC).

                                                      50
           The mixture preferably further comprises a second biocide substance. The second biocide
   substance may be a cationic biocidally active surfactant. The second biocide substance is
   optionally taken from the group including alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium (C8-C1 8), dialkyl
   dimethyl ammonium (C8-Cl2) and didecyl methyl polyethoxyethyl ammonium and trimethyl
 5 ammonium. Most preferably, the second biocidal substance is in the form of Didecyl Dimethyl
   Ammonium Chloride (DDQ) having the formula:
                                                     CH,       +
                                              H2 ,C~-N-C 0H2 1 C
                                                     CH,
10         The ratio of the first biocide substance and the second biocide substance may be between
   1:2 and 2:1, more preferably 1:1, and most preferably is 4:6.
           Advantageously, the germ-killing-liquid-substance, including the disperser, includes a
   precise mixture of 3 active biocide substances.
           Accordingly, in a preferred form of the invention, the mixture includes a first biocide
15 substance in the form of Alkyl Dimethyl Benzyl Ammonium Chloride (BAC), and a second
   biocide substance in the form of Didecyl Dimethyl Ammonium Chloride (DDQ).
           Preferably, the ratio of the first biocide substance and the second biocide substance may
   be between 1:2 and 2:1, more preferably 1:1, and most preferably is about 4:6..
           Preferably, the third biocide substance is a biguanide.
20         The third biocide substance may comprise a substance of the formula:
                                                  NH        NH,
                                                   I
                                            N-C-N-C-N-
                                                            I
                                            H          H         H
   where n is 1 or 2.
25         The third biocide substance more preferably comprises a guanide having the formula:
                                                NH;    NH
                                       - NH-C-N H-C-N H-(CH2). -t- Cl,.

                                                      51
   where n is the number of monomers consistent with stablised micelles in the range of 1 - 100 nm,
   preferably 5 - 10 nm.
            Preferably the third biocide substance is therefore poly-hexamethylene biguanide. The
   ratio of the third biocide to the combination of the first two biocidal substances may be between
 5 1:2 and 2:1, more preferably between 2:3 and 3:2 and most preferably is about 1:1.
            The disperser may also include at least one inactive ingredient. The inactive ingredient
   may be a surfactants. The surfactant is preferably an alkyl glucoside. Still more preferably, the
   inactive ingredient includes one or more of DecylGlucoside and OctylGlucoside. This or these
   inactive ingredients are preferably effective to stabilize the mixture. Preferably, the ratio of
10 DecylGlucoside to OctylGlucoside is between 1:2 and 2:1, more preferably between 7:5 and 5:7,
   and most preferably about 6:5.
            The inactive ingredients, for example DecylGlucoside (DG) and OctylGlucoside (OG),
   are effective to stabilize the mixture of the one, two or three biocide substancesApplicants believe
   that the inactive ingredients, such as DG and OG, act as the carrier and disperser to spread the
15 biocide substances mixture effectively.
            The inventive formulation preferably results in stablised micelles in the 5-10 nanometer
   (nm) range. This allows the germ-killing-liquid-substance (such as the exemplary mixture of 3
   biocide substances) to achieve a higher germ-killing efficiency at lower concentrations, than
   would an unstabilised mixture of the one or more biocide substances.
20          Accordingly, with respect to the preferred germ-killing-liquid-substance, the combined
   mixture of the first biocide substance, the second biocide substance, and the disperser, all three
   acting together, mean that lesser quantities of the first and second biocide substances are required
   to achieve the same kill-rate of germs on the user's hands, compared to a case if the disperser is
   not present.
25          More particularly, the combined mixture of the three active biocide substances, and the
   disperser, the one or more components interacting and/or acting together, mean that lesser
   quantities of the included biocide substances are required to achieve the same kill-rate of germs
   on the user's hands, compared to a case where the disperser was not present.
            Without being limited by theory it is believed that, when the germ-killing-liquid
30 substance reaches the user's hands, the actual biocides do not bond effectively to the user's skin.
   However, according to the preferred mixture containing the disperser, it is believed that the
   biocides can effectively bond to the disperser which, in turn, is able to effectively bond to the
   user's skin. Thus, it is believed that the preferred mixture works because the disperser aids in
   effectively bonding the biocide to the user's hands.

                                                       52
            Advantageously, the apparatus is able to coat the user's hands with a very thin layer of
   germ-killing-liquid-substance that contains far less active germ-killing agent, than would be the
   case if the disperser, that is in the germ-killing-liquid-substance, were not used.
            Furthermore, in a further modified embodiment, without being limited by theory, a reason
 5 as to why far less germ-killing active ingredient is required on the hands is believed to be the
   result of a synergy between (i) the usage of the three-dimensional filter 41 OA, and (ii) the
   preferred presence of the disperser in the modified germ-killing-liquid-substance.
            According to the theory, this synergy is a result of the air being cleaner due to the
   operation of the three-dimensional filter 410A. A consequence of that operation is that fewer
10 germs are blown onto the user's hands from the airflow 200C. Therefore, a smaller amount of
   germ-killing-liquid-substance is required to be transmitted onto the user's hands. It will be
   understood by the skilled person that a sufficient amount of the biocide substance is required
   mostly to focus on killing germs on the user's hands, and since the airflow 200C itself has already
   been purified inside the apparatus, it is believed that less germs make it onto the user's hands and
15 hence a smaller amount of germ-killing agent is required.
            However, it is notionally more difficult to evenly spread such a smaller amount of germ
   killing-liquid-substance over the surface of the user's hands. Therefore, an advantage of the
   disperser is believed to be that it aids in the dispersal of this smaller quantity of substance over
   the user's skin.
20          It is further postulated that the synergy also is a result of the faster airflow afforded by the
   three-dimensional filter 410A. The faster airflow, from the three-dimensional filter 410A,
   provides more physical force to spread the disperser across the user's hands while the user
   exposes his hands to the airflow. This may explain why less germ-killing-liquid-substance is
   required to sufficiently coat the user's hands with an adequate, thin layer of germ-killing
25 substance.
            Moreover, another result of the observed advantageous results of the apparent synergy is
   that the sufficient coating of the user's hands can be achieved by a shorter burst of spray of the
   germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow 200C.
            Furthermore, in the modified embodiment, a smaller amount of active germ-killing
30 liquid-substance is required. Therefore, in terms of the sensation that the user feels on his hands
   in practice, the user may feel that his hands have less material coating. Subjectively, this smaller
   amount of material on the user's hands may cause the user to perceive that his hands feel less
   sticky after the anti-bacteria material is applied to the hands.

                                                       53
             In this specification, the references to airflow are understood to be when the respective
   embodiments are installed and in operation. It is also understood that an embodiment is capable
   of generating an airflow, but would not be ready to do so until it is installed and put into
   operation.
 5           Embodiments of the present invention relates particularly, but not exclusively, to hand
   dryers and air purifiers, and can be embodied in other apparatus, that involve air-purifying, that
   draw in air from a human-activity environment, and expel that air purified back into the ambient
   environment, for example: hair dryers, vacuum cleaners, air fans, air conditioners, refrigerators,
   vacuum cleaners and clothing tumble dryers, to name a few non-limiting examples. Figure 18
10 shows a schematic diagram of an arrangement of use of an embodiment of the three-dimensional
   filter structure in a vacuum cleaner IC. The vacuum cleaner has a motor and fan 400, 405 that
   draws an airflow into the apparatus through a pipe 801. The air enters a main collection chamber
   800 where the dirt is collected, and then enters into a three-dimensional filter structure in the form
   of a three-dimensional filter 410C. The filter 410C is in connection with the inlet aperture 101 of
15 the vacuum cleaner via the main collection chamber 800. Thus, the main chamber 800 filters out
   filters out large particulate, and then the three-dimensional filter 41 OC is used to remove germs
   and odours, as per the description of the three-dimensional filter 410A in relation to earlier
   embodiments. Furthermore, embodiments may have one or more inlet apertures, and one or more
   outlet apertures. The phrases "an inlet" and "an outlet" includes modifications also may have
20 multiple inlet apertures and/or multiple outlet apertures.
             In this specification, the word germ is used as a generic umbrella term that includes both
   bacteria and viruses.
             The embodiments have been advanced by way of example only, and modifications are
   possible within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
25           In this specification, where the words comprise or comprises or derivatives thereof are
   used in relation to elements, integers, steps or features, this is to indicate that those elements,
   integers, steps or features are present but it is not to be taken to preclude the possibility of other
   elements, integers, steps or features being present.

                                                54
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A human-activity-environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an
ambient human-activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels
the airflow purified back into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
         a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
         an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
         an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
         wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that
sprays germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,
         and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
and a disperser.
2.       An apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one antimicrobial agent is a quaternary
ammonium salt and the disperser is an alkyl glucoside.
3.       An apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the at least one antimicrobial agent includes a first
anti microbial agent comprising alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride and a second anti
microbial agent comprising didecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride.
4.       An apparatus of claim 3, wherein the ratio between the first and the second antimicrobial
agent is approximately 4:6.
5.       An apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the disperser includes one or more of
decylglucoside and octylglucoside.
6.       An apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the disperser includes decylglucoside
and octylglucoside in the ratio of approximately 6:5.
7.       An apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the at least one antimicrobial agent
includes a third antimicrobial a biguanide.
8.       An apparatus of claim 7, wherein the biguanide is poly-hexamethylene biguanide.

                                                 55
9.       An apparatus of claim 7 or 8 when dependent on any one of claims 56 to 59, wherein the
ratio of the combination of the first and second antimicrobial agents to the third antimicrobial
agent is approximately 1:1.
10.      Use of a germ-killing-liquid-substance in a human-activity-environment air-purifying
apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity-environment, kills germs in
the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the human-activity
environment, the apparatus comprising:
         a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
         an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
         an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
         wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that is
able to spray germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,
         and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
and a disperser.
11.      Use of a germ-killing-liquid-substance of claim 10, wherein the at least one antimicrobial
agent is a quaternary ammonium salt and the disperser is an alkyl glucoside.
12.      Use of a germ-killing-liquid-substance of claim 10 or 11, wherein the at least one
antimicrobial agent includes a first anti microbial agent comprising alkyl dimethyl benzyl
ammonium chloride and a second anti microbial agent comprising didecyl dimethyl ammonium
chloride.
13.      A method of spraying at least one antimicrobial agent onto and spreading the agent over a
user's hands, the method comprising:
         spraying a germ-killing-liquid-substance using a human-activity-environment air
purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an ambient human-activity-environment, kills
germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels the airflow purified back into the human
activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
         a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;

                                                  56
         an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
         an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
         wherein the airflow-germ-killing-system includes a germ-killing-substance-sprayer that is
used to spray the germ-killing-liquid-substance into the airflow,
         and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
and a disperser,
         and wherein the germ-killing-liquid-substance comprises at least one antimicrobial agent
and a disperser, and the method includes using the airflow and the disperser to spread the least
one antimicrobial agent across the user's skin of the hands.
14.      A human-activity-environment air-purifying apparatus that draws in an airflow from an
ambient human-activity-environment, kills germs in the airflow within the apparatus and expels
the airflow purified back into the human-activity-environment, the apparatus comprising:
         a housing having an interior chamber into which an airflow enters through an inlet and
from which interior chamber the airflow is expelled through an outlet;
         an airflow-germ-killing-system adapted to kill germs in the airflow;
         an airflow-generator which causes the airflow to flow from the inlet to the outlet;
wherein the apparatus has an underside and a base-mounting adapted to be attached to a wall, and
wherein both the inlet and the outlet are on the underside of the apparatus such that the inlet is not
between the outlet and the base-mounting.
15.      An apparatus of claim 14 wherein the inlet and outlet are arranged on the underside
generally in a row or sequence where the direction of the row or sequence is generally alongside
the base-mounting.
16.      An apparatus of either claim 14 or 15 where, on the surface where the outlet and inlet are
positioned, the inlet occupies a very substantial portion of said surface that is outside the
outgoing-airflow-protected-surface-region.

                      1 / 38
<removed-date>                           1
<removed-apn>                                 10
              102
                                     15
                                            14
              101
               200A                 200C
                         Figure 1

                             2 / 38
<removed-date>
                    1
<removed-apn>
                                                11
              10
               15
                        14
                                           12
                                Figure 2

                        3 / 38
<removed-date>
                                      758
<removed-apn>
                                 S
                                                  1
               10
                                                  10
                R                                       R
                                                  14
                                                       15
              101
                                                  17
                                 S
                    3
                           Figure 3         10A

                                    4 / 38
<removed-date>                   404
                                                  13
                     406
                                                             1
<removed-apn>
              400
                                                       405
              611
                                                         10
               600
               610                                               200A
                                                                  200A
                    20
                                                                    410A
                    200C                                         424
                                                                       12
                    16
                                                                         11
                         12
                                       Figure 4

                                              5 / 38
<removed-date>                                                    402
                                       404
                                                                      1
<removed-apn>
                           407A
                                                                          403
                 400
                                                                           405
              401B
              401A                                                         10
                     406
                                                                           13
              751
                                                                                200A
              700A
                                                                            415
                                                                            200A
                    16
                                                                          410A
                           750
                                             200A
                                  12                                       424
                                                                 12
                                                    Figure 5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                          8 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                   417
<removed-apn>
                                                           415
                        414
                                                                 416
                       417
                 416                                     413
                418
                                                                       410A
              420
                419
                                                                        415
                        Figure 6C
                                                                               413
                              414
                                    411
                                                                         414
                                                         412
                                            Figure 6D

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                            10 / 38
<removed-date>
                                      410B
<removed-apn>
                     415B
                                             414B
              414B
                     424B
                              Figure 6F

              11 / 38
<removed-date>
              430
                            431
<removed-apn>
                                  430
                                        410A
                Figure 6G

                                    12 / 38
<removed-date>
                             401B         403
                                                                  405
                     400
<removed-apn>
                      401A
              612
                                                                        406
              600
                                                                       404
              610
                                                                 611
                                                  16
                                                       18
                15
                                                            15
                              18
                                       Figure 7

                                13 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          614
                                                    611
                    615
              600
                                              613
              610
                                  Figure 8A

                      14 / 38
<removed-date>                         612
                600
<removed-apn>
                                          600
                                                    611
              610
                                                  613
                                            610
                        Figure 8B

                                          15 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                    700A
                                                                   751
                                                                   752
              18                     18
                                                           753
                                                           750B
                   15
                                                              18
                        757               14
                                               Figure 9A

                         16 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                       751
                                              752
                                             700A
              757
                                       750B
              14           Figure 9B
                    15

                     17 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              19
                                        758
               759
                                   15
                                   14
                       Figure 9C

                                     18 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                                751
<removed-apn>
                          753
                                                                  752
                          754
                                                          755
                    756
                                                           750B
              757
                                                   750A
                                14
                                       Figure 9D

                                      19 / 38
<removed-date>
                      414A                              701
                                      410A
<removed-apn>
                                                              700B
              429
              427
                    101
                                                427
              424         102
                                426
                                                      760
                                         Figure 10

                                   20 / 38
                                       760
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              761
                     755A
                            758A
                                     Figure 11A
                    766
                                     Figure 11B

                                       21 / 38
<removed-date>
                                 760
              765
<removed-apn>
                    761
                                                            768
                     763
                           764           Figure 12A
                                                      766
                                                                  767
                       761
               760
                                         Figure 12B

                            22 / 38
<removed-date>
                761
<removed-apn>
              760
                              Figure 12C
                      760
               761
                              Figure 12D

                    23 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          701
              763                        755A
                       755B        754
                      Figure 12E

                                             24 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                              762
<removed-apn>
                                       761
                                             761                                 763
              761
                                                                          764
                                                       763          Figure 13A
                    761
                                                        764
                          Figure 13B

                           25 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                   15
                                                  14
                                                 759A
              101
                                                 17
                    758A
                                          200C
                             Figure 14A

                           26 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          15
              101
                    758C                       200C
                             Figure 14B

                                     27 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                    701
               761
                     763
              764
                       755     757
                                       Figure 14C
                             758C

                                          28 / 38
<removed-date>
                                    406              408
                              400                                403
              407B
<removed-apn>
                                                                        405
              612
                                                                        407A
              610
                                                                       404
                     611A                                  404
                       407B
                                                           16
                                            Figure 15A

                             29 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                   404
                           406
                     400
                                                         403
              611A
                                                               405
<removed-apn>
               612
              407B
              610
              407B
                                              16
                                 Figure 15B

                                30 / 38
<removed-date>
                          400
                                                    404
                 611A
<removed-apn>
                                                            405
              407B
               612
               407B
                        406
                                                      404
                                               16
                                  Figure 15C

                                              31 / 38
<removed-date>
                                  1A
<removed-apn>
                     749
                                                                           14A
              758B
                                                                    101A
                 14A
                           101A
                                                                      200A
                           200A                              200C
                                       200C     Figure 16A

                            32 / 38
<removed-date>
                     1A
                                           757A
<removed-apn>
                                                  701
              757A
                                                  410B
                                                         16A
               701
                                                  11A
                     410B
                              Figure 16B

                            33 / 38
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                     701A
              410B
                                                  701A
                                           410B
                                  16A
                              Figure 16C

                                            34 / 38
<removed-date>     400A
                                  1A
                                                               400A
<removed-apn>
              13A
               B                       B1                  B            B2
              101A
                                                                             101AA
                            16A                                16A
                     200C                                        200C
                                              Figure 16D

                              35 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                 1B
<removed-apn>
                                   A
                B                                            B2
                101A            B1           B
                                                           101AA
                                  A
                                                         200AA
                       200C                       200C
              200AA
                                Figure 17A

                                         36 / 38
<removed-date>
                                    1B
<removed-apn>
                        14B
              14B
                                                                             R
                                S
                        S
                                                                         101AA
                                                                S
                                                        S
                    R                                                 10AA
                         101A
                                                               200C
                                                        200C
                                           Figure 17B

                           37 / 38
<removed-date>
                                                     1C
                    410C
<removed-apn>
                                                          800
                                                                      801
              415
                                                                101
                    414                   400, 405
              13
                              Figure 18

                      38 / 38
<removed-date>
                                     814
                                                        805A
<removed-apn>
                                                   801A
              3                            811
                        Figure 19A
                                     814
                                                 805B
                                                  801A
                        Figure 19B
                  3                         811

