                                         ABSTRACT
        Weight loss agents include compounds defined by Formula I or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, compositions containing the same, and methods of use
thereof are described herein. In some embodiments, the compound is Withaferin A. In other
embodiments, the compound is Michael addition product of Withaferin A. The compounds
can be administered to induce weight loss in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient,
reduce body fat in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, reduce food intake in a pre
obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, improve glucose homeostasis in a pre-obese, obese,
or morbidly obese patient, or combinations thereof.

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
                  COMPOUNDS FOR THE TREATMENT OF OBESITY
                             AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                 This invention is in the field of compounds to treat obesity, and
    5    methods of making and using thereof.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                 Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has
         accumulated to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health,
         leading to reduced life expectancy and/or increased health problems. Body
  10     mass index (BMI), a measurement which compares weight and height,
         defines people as overweight (or pre-obese) if their BMI is between 25 and
         30 kg/m 2, and obese when it is greater than 30 kg/m 2. Obesity is a leading
         preventable cause of death worldwide, with increasing prevalence in adults
         and children, and authorities view it as one of the most serious public health
  15     problems of the 21st century.
                 Obesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions.
         Excessive body weight is associated with various diseases, particularly
         cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus type 2, obstructive sleep apnea,
         certain types of cancer, and osteoarthritis. As a result, obesity has been
  20     found to reduce life expectancy. These diseases are either directly caused by
         obesity or indirectly related through mechanisms sharing a common cause
         such as a poor diet or a sedentary lifestyle. One of the strongest links is with
         type 2 diabetes. Excess body fat underlies 64% of cases of diabetes in men
         and 77% of cases in women. Increases in body fat alter the body's response
  25     to insulin, potentially leading to insulin resistance.
                 Obesity is one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide.
         Obesity is most commonly caused by a combination of excessive energy
         intake, lack of physical activity, and genetic susceptibility, although a few
         cases are caused primarily by genes, endocrine disorders, medications or
  30     psychiatric illness. Increasing rates of obesity at a societal level are felt to be
         due to an easily accessible and palatable diet, increased reliance on cars, and
         mechanized manufacturing. Since the discovery of leptin in 1994, many
         other hormonal mechanisms have been elucidated that participate in the
                                                  1

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         regulation of appetite and food intake, storage patterns of adipose tissue, and
         development of insulin resistance, including ghrelin, insulin, orexin, PYY 3
         36, cholecystokinin, and adiponectin.
                  Adipokines are metabolic signal mediators produced by adipose
    5    tissue; their action is important in the context of many obesity-related
         diseases. Leptin and ghrelin are considered to be complementary in their
         influence on appetite, with ghrelin produced by the stomach modulating
         short-term appetitive control (i.e., to eat when the stomach is empty and to
         stop when the stomach is stretched). Leptin is produced by adipose tissue as
  10     a signal of fat storage levels in the body, and mediates long-term appetitive
         controls (i.e., to eat more when fat storages are low and less when fat
         storages are high). Although administration of leptin may be effective in a
         small subset of obese individuals who are leptin deficient, most obese
         individuals are thought to be leptin resistant and have been found to have
  15     high levels of leptin. This resistance is thought to explain in part why
         administration of leptin has not been shown to be effective in suppressing
         appetite in most obese people.
                  While leptin and ghrelin are produced peripherally, they control
         appetite through their actions on the central nervous system. In particular,
  20     they and other appetite-related hormones act on the hypothalamus, a region
         of the brain central to the regulation of food intake and energy expenditure.
         There are several circuits within the hypothalamus that contribute to its role
         in integrating appetite, the melanocortin pathway being the best understood.
         The circuit begins with the arcuate nucleus, an area of the hypothalamus that
  25     has outputs to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and ventromedial hypothalamus
         (VMH), the brain's feeding and satiety centers, respectively.
                  The arcuate nucleus contains two distinct groups of neurons. The first
         group co-expresses neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide
         (AgRP) and has stimulatory inputs to the LH and inhibitory inputs to the
  30     VMH. The second group co-expresses pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and
         cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and has stimulatory
         inputs to the VMH and inhibitory inputs to the LH. Consequently,
        NPY/AgRP neurons stimulate feeding and inhibit satiety, while
                                                  2

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         POMC/CART neurons stimulate satiety and inhibit feeding. Both groups of
         arcuate nucleus neurons are regulated in part by leptin. Leptin inhibits the
        NPY/AgRP group while stimulating the POMC/CART group. Thus a
         deficiency in leptin signaling, either via leptin deficiency or leptin resistance,
    5    leads to overfeeding. This may account for some genetic and acquired forms
         of obesity.
                  Dieting and physical exercise are the mainstays of treatment for
         obesity. To supplement this, or in case of failure, anti-obesity drugs may be
         taken to reduce appetite or inhibit fat absorption. In severe cases, surgery is
  10     performed or an intragastric balloon is placed to reduce stomach volume
         and/or bowel length, leading to earlier satiation and reduced ability to absorb
         nutrients from food. Maintaining this weight loss is frequently difficult and
         often requires making exercise and a low calorie diet a permanent part of a
         person's lifestyle. Success rates of long-term weight loss maintenance with
  15     lifestyle changes are low, ranging from 2-20%.
                  A limited number of medications are available for the treatment of
         obesity. Concerns about side effects have diminished enthusiasm for
         appetite-suppressant drugs, particularly fenfluramine, sibutramine, and
         phentermine, which carry serious risks and have been withdrawn from the
  20     market. Phentermine is approved only for short-term use. Orlistat (Xenical)
         is a medication that blocks the absorption of dietary fat and is also approved
         for longer-term use. However, it causes unpleasant side effects (greasy
         stool), and requires supplementation with fat-soluble vitamins.
                  Although surgery (such as gastric bypass) is the last resort for the
  25     treatment of obesity, it can be extremely effective. However, it should be
         performed at an experienced surgical center, because such operations can
         carry significant risks, especially in the post-operative period. Consensus
         recommendations are to limit surgical therapies to patients with morbid
         obesity (BMI > 40, BMI > 35 plus co-morbidities, or BMI > 30 with
  30     uncontrollable diabetes).
                  A number of weight-loss pills are available at local drugstores,
         supermarkets or health food stores. Even more options are available online.
         Most have not been proved effective, and some may be downright
                                                  3

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         dangerous. Table 1 (below) shows common weight-loss pills and what the
         research shows about their effectiveness and safety.
                   Herbal extracts are often impure and contain so many different
         substances, that it is difficult to assess if the mixture as a whole is
    5    efficacious, much less what constitutes an effective dosage. With hundreds
         or more different compounds in the mixture, it could be more than one
         compound required for activity, or one compound inhibiting activity of
         another compound, so the source and processing of the original source
         material may result in an inactive or even dangerous product.
  10     Table 1: Anecdotal Products for Weight Loss. Sources: U.S. Food and Drug
         Administration, 2010; Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database, 2010
               Product                Claim              Effectiveness           Safety
         Alli -   OTC          Decreases              Effective; weight-  FDA investigating
         version of            absorption of          loss amounts        reports of liver
         prescription drug     dietary fat            typically less for  injury
         orlistat (Xenical)                           OTC versus
                                                      prescription
         Bitter orange         Increases calories     Insufficient        Possibly unsafe
                               burned                 reliable evidence
                                                      to rate
         Chitosan              Blocks absorption      Insufficient        Possibly safe
                               of dietary fat         reliable evidence
                                                      to rate
         Chromium              Increases calories     Insufficient        Likely safe
                               burned, decreases      reliable evidence
                               appetite and           to rate
                               builds muscle
         Conjugated            Reduces body fat       Possibly effective  Possibly safe
         linoleic acid         and builds muscle
         (CLA)
                                                    4

  Country          Decreases appetite and     Insufficient      Likely unsafe
  mallow           increases calories         reliable evidence and banned by
  (heartleaf)      burned                     to rate           FDA
  Ephedra          Decreases appetite         Possibly          Likely unsafe
                                              effective         and banned by
                                                                FDA
  Green tea        Increases calorie and fat  Insufficient      Possibly safe
  extract          metabolism and             reliable evidence
                   decreases appetite         to rate
  Guar gum         Blocks absorption of       Possibly          Likely safe
                   dietary fat and increases  ineffective
                   feeling of fullness
  Hoodia           Decreases appetite         Insufficient      Insufficient
                                              reliable evidence information
                                              to rate
                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          Active agents for the promotion of weight loss, as well as
5 formulations containing these active agents and methods of using thereof, are
  described herein.
                                            5

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
                  Exemplary weight loss agents include compounds defined by
         Formula I
                                                                        R6
                                                         H                      R7
                                         R4E                              '
                                                                  0
                                                          10
          R3
                     |A              B     AH       H
                                                        R5
          R2
                             0
                        OR1
    5             wherein R 1 -R 7 are independently hydrogen, carboxylic acid
         (-COOH), formyl, acyl, primary amide (e.g., -CONH 2), secondary amide
         (e.g., -CONHRs), tertiary amide (e.g., -CONRsRs), secondary carbamate
         (e.g., -OCONHRs; -NHCOORs), tertiary carbamate (e.g., -OCONRsRs;
         -NRsCOOR 7), urea (e.g., -NHCONHRs; -NRsCONHRs; -NHCONRsRs,
  10     -NR8CONR8 R 8 ), carbinol (e.g., -CH 2OH; -CHR 8 OH, -CR 8R 8 OH), ether
         (e.g., -ORs), ester (e.g., -COORs), alcohol (-OH), thiol (-SH), primary amine
         (-NH 2), secondary amine (e.g., -NHRs), tertiary amine (e.g., -NRsRs),
         thioether (e.g., -SRs), sulfinyl group (e.g., -SORs), sulfonyl group (e.g.,
         -SOORs), sulfino group, halogen, nitrile, or CF 3 ; or an alkyl, cycloalkyl,
  15     heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl group
         optionally substituted with between one and five substituents individually
         selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine, halogen, hydroxyl,
         ether, nitrile, CF 3, ester, amide, urea, carbamate, thioether, carboxylic acid,
         and aryl;
  20             Rs, when present, is individually for each occurrence an alkyl,
         cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl
         group, optionally substituted with between one and five substituents
                                                    6

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         individually selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine,
         halogen, hydroxyl, ether, nitrile, CF 3 , ester, amide, urea, carbamate,
         thioether, carboxylic acid, and aryl;
                  wherein the dotted line represents a single or double bond;
    5             or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.
                  In some embodiments, the compound is Withaferin A. In other
         embodiments, the compound is Michael addition product of Withaferin A.
         The Michael addition reaction can occur on ring A and/or ring E. In still
         other embodiments, the compound is selected from 2,3-dihydrowithaferin A;
  10     2,3-dihydro-27-deoxywithaferin A; 2,3,24,25-tetrahydro-27-deoxywithaferin
         A, 4-Dehydrowithaferin Al; withaferin A diacetate; 155-Hydroxywithaferin
         A; 120-Hydroxywithaferin Al; UN-R 1 (metabolite of R. simplex); UN-R 2
         (metabolite of R. simplex).
                  Also provided are pharmaceutical formulations containing a
  15     therapeutically effective amount of a weight loss agent, or a
         pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, in combination with one
         or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The pharmaceutical
         formulations can be administered to induce weight loss in a pre-obese, obese,
         or morbidly obese patient, reduce body fat in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
  20     obese patient, reduce food intake in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese
         patient, improve glucose homeostasis in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient, or combinations thereof.
                  In particular embodiments, the weight loss agent is co-administered
         with leptin or a leptin analog, such as r-metHuLeptin (A-100,
  25     METRELEPTIN@), available from Amylin Pharmaceuticals (San Diego,
         Calif.).
                  In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to induce weight loss,
  30     preferably in a therapeutically effective amount and time of administration to
         decrease body mass or body fat by at least 10%, more preferably by at least
         15%, most preferably by at least 20%, or higher.
                                                   7

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
                 In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to reduce food intake,
         appetite, or combinations thereof, preferably in a therapeutically effective
    5    amount to reduce average daily food intake (in terms of calories) by at least
         15%, more preferably by at least 25%, most preferably by at least 35%, or
         higher.
                 In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
  10     obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to improve glucose
         homeostasis, preferably in a therapeutically effective amount to reduce
         average fasting plasma blood glucose by at least 10%, more preferably by at
         least 15%, most preferably by at least 20%, or higher. In cases where the
         pharmaceutical formulations are administered to normalize blood sugar, the
  15     formulations are preferably administered in an amount effective to lower
         blood glucose levels to less than about 180, 160, 140, 120, or 100 mg/dL.
         The formulations can be co-administered with other anti-diabetic therapies, if
         necessary, to improve glucose homeostasis.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  20              Figure 1A is a line graph showing the effect of Withaferin A (2
         mg/kg, i.p.) on body weight (grams) over time (days) when administered to
         C57BL/6 mice fed HFD for 16 weeks. Figure 1B is a graph showing the
         percent decrease in body weight after Withaferin A administration (2
         mg/kg/day) over time (days). Figure IC is a graph showing 24hr food intake
  25     (g/day) during Withaferin A administration. Figure ID is a graph showing
         6hr fasting blood glucose (mg/dl) of HFD-fed mice measured three weeks
         after Withaferin A administration. n= 5 mice per group. *, p<0.05; *,
         p<0.01; ***, p<0.001 by Student's t-test.
                 Figure 2A is a graph showing the effect of Withaferin A
  30     administration (2 mg/kg i.p. once a day) on body weight (g) when
         administered to C57BL/6 mice fed a chow diet. Figure 2B is a graph
         showing 24hr food intake (g) during Withaferin A administration. Figure 2C
         is graph showing 6hr fasting blood glucose (mg/dl) of lean mice measured
                                                 8

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         three weeks after Withaferin A administration. n= 5 mice per group. NS:
        Non-significant (p>0.05 by Student's t-test)
                  Figure 3A is graph showing the effect of Withaferin A administration
         (2 mg /kg i.p., once a day) on body weight (g) when administered to 8-week
    5    old db/db mice fed a chow diet. Figure 3B is a graph showing 24hr food
         intake (g) during Withaferin A administration. Figure 3C is a graph showing
         6hr fasting blood glucose (mg/dl) of db/db mice measured three weeks after
         Withaferin A administration. n= 5 mice per group. NS: Non-significant
         (p>0.05 by Student's t-test).
  10              Figure 4A is a graph showing overnight food intake (g) of HFD fed
         20-week old C57BL/6 mice after i.p. leptin injection. Figure 4B is a graph
         showing overnight food intake (g) of 8-week old C57BL/6 lean mice. n= 6
         mice per group.
                  Figures 5A and 5B are graphs showing the body composition of HFD
  15     fed mice receiving daily i.p. Withaferin A for 2 weeks was analyzed with
         DEXA to measure their lean mass (g) (Figure 5A), and fat percentage
         (Figure 5B).
                  Figures 6A-6D are graphs showing the results of glucose tolerance
         test (at day 7) (Figures 6A and 6B) and insulin tolerance test (at day 16)
  20     (Figures 6C and 6D) carried out on HFD fed mice receiving daily i.p.
         injections of Withaferin A or DMSO. (AUC: Area under the curve) n= 5
         mice per group. *, p<0.05; **, p<0.01; ***, p<0.001 by Student's t-test.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         I.       Definitions
  25              "Analog" and "Derivative", are used herein interchangeably, and
         refer to a compound that possesses the same steroidal lactone core as a
         parent compound, but differs from the parent compound in bond order, in the
         absence or presence of one or more atoms and/or groups of atoms, and
         combinations thereof. The derivative can differ from the parent compound,
  30     for example, in one or more substituents present on the steroidal lactone
         core, which may include one or more atoms, functional groups, or
         substructures. The derivative can also differ from the parent compound in
         the bond order between atoms within the steroidal lactone core. In general, a
                                                9

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         derivative can be imagined to be formed, at least theoretically, from the
         parent compound via chemical and/or physical processes. For example,
         derivatives of withaferin A include compounds possessing one or more
         substituents affixed to the steroidal lactone core.
    5             "Co-administration", as used herein, includes simultaneous and
         sequential administration. An appropriate time course for sequential
         administration may be chosen by the physician, according to such factors as
         the nature of a patient's illness, and the patient's condition.
                  "Pharmaceutically acceptable", as used herein, refers to those
  10     compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within
         the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the
         tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation,
         allergic response, or other problems or complications commensurate with a
         reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
  15              "Prodrug", as used herein, refers to a pharmacological substance
         (drug) that is administered to a subject in an inactive (or significantly less
         active) form. Once administered, the prodrug is metabolized in the body (in
         vivo) into a compound having the desired pharmacological activity.
                  "Alkyl", as used herein, refers to the radical of saturated or
  20     unsaturated aliphatic groups, including straight-chain alkyl, alkenyl, or
         alkynyl groups, branched-chain alkyl, alkenyl, or alkynyl groups, cycloalkyl,
         cycloalkenyl, or cycloalkynyl (alicyclic) groups, alkyl substituted cycloalkyl,
         cycloalkenyl, or cycloalkynyl groups, and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl,
         alkenyl, or alkynyl groups. Unless otherwise indicated, a straight chain or
  25     branched chain alkyl has 30 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone (e.g., Ci
         C3 0 for straight chain, C3 -C 3 0 for branched chain), more preferably 20 or
         fewer carbon atoms, more preferably 12 or fewer carbon atoms, and most
         preferably 8 or fewer carbon atoms. Likewise, preferred cycloalkyls have
         from 3-10 carbon atoms in their ring structure, and more preferably have 5, 6
  30     or 7 carbons in the ring structure. The ranges provided above are inclusive
         of all values between the minimum value and the maximum value.
                  The term "alkyl" includes both "unsubstituted alkyls" and
         "substituted alkyls", the latter of which refers to alkyl moieties having one or
                                                     10

WO 2015/081093                                                                   PCT/US2014/067393
         more substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the
         hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents include, but are not limited to,
         halogen, hydroxyl, carbonyl (such as a carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, formyl, or
         an acyl), thiocarbonyl (such as a thioester, a thioacetate, or a thioformate),
    5    alkoxyl, phosphoryl, phosphate, phosphonate, a phosphinate, amino, amido,
         amidine, imine, cyano, nitro, azido, sulfhydryl, alkylthio, sulfate, sulfonate,
         sulfamoyl, sulfonamido, sulfonyl, heterocyclyl, aralkyl, or an aromatic or
         heteroaromatic moiety.
                 Unless the number of carbons is otherwise specified, "lower alkyl" as
  10     used herein means an alkyl group, as defined above, but having from one to
         ten carbons, more preferably from one to six carbon atoms in its backbone
         structure. Likewise, "lower alkenyl" and "lower alkynyl" have similar chain
         lengths. Preferred alkyl groups are lower alkyls.
                 The alkyl groups may also contain one or more heteroatoms within
  15     the carbon backbone. Preferably the heteroatoms incorporated into the
         carbon backbone are oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and combinations thereof. In
         certain embodiments, the alkyl group contains between one and four
         heteroatoms.
                  "Alkenyl" and "Alkynyl", as used herein, refer to unsaturated
  20     aliphatic groups containing one or more double or triple bonds analogous in
         length (e.g., C 2 -C 3 0 ) and possible substitution to the alkyl groups described
         above.
                 "Aryl", as used herein, refers to 5-, 6- and 7-membered aromatic ring.
         The ring may be a carbocyclic, heterocyclic, fused carbocyclic, fused
  25     heterocyclic, bicarbocyclic, or biheterocyclic ring system, optionally
         substituted by halogens, alkyl-, alkenyl-, and alkynyl-groups. Broadly
         defined, "Ar", as used herein, includes 5-, 6- and 7-membered single-ring
         aromatic groups that may include from zero to four heteroatoms, for
         example, benzene, pyrrole, furan, thiophene, imidazole, oxazole, thiazole,
  30     triazole, pyrazole, pyridine, pyrazine, pyridazine and pyrimidine, and the
         like. Those aryl groups having heteroatoms in the ring structure may also be
         referred to as "heteroaryl", "aryl heterocycles", or "heteroaromatics". The
         aromatic ring can be substituted at one or more ring positions with such
                                                     11

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         substituents as described above, for example, halogen, azide, alkyl, aralkyl,
         alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyl, alkoxyl, amino, nitro, sulfhydryl,
         imino, amido, phosphonate, phosphinate, carbonyl, carboxyl, silyl, ether,
         alkylthio, sulfonyl, sulfonamido, ketone, aldehyde, ester, heterocyclyl,
    5    aromatic or heteroaromatic moieties, --CF3, --CN, or the like. The term "Ar"
         also includes polycyclic ring systems having two or more cyclic rings in
         which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings (the rings are
         "fused rings") wherein at least one of the rings is aromatic, e.g., the other
         cyclic rings can be cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or
  10     heterocycles. Examples of heterocyclic ring include, but are not limited to,
         benzimidazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiofuranyl, benzothiophenyl,
         benzoxazolyl, benzoxazolinyl, benzthiazolyl, benztriazolyl, benztetrazolyl,
         benzisoxazolyl, benzisothiazolyl, benzimidazolinyl, carbazolyl, 4aH
         carbazolyl, carbolinyl, chromanyl, chromenyl, cinnolinyl,
  15     decahydroquinolinyl, 2H,6H-1,5,2-dithiazinyl, dihydrofuro[2,3
         b]tetrahydrofuran, furanyl, furazanyl, imidazolidinyl, imidazolinyl,
         imidazolyl, 1H-indazolyl, indolenyl, indolinyl, indolizinyl, indolyl, 3H
         indolyl, isatinoyl, isobenzofuranyl, isochromanyl, isoindazolyl, isoindolinyl,
         isoindolyl, isoquinolinyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, methylenedioxyphenyl,
  20     morpholinyl, naphthyridinyl, octahydroisoquinolinyl, oxadiazolyl, 1,2,3
         oxadiazolyl, 1,2,4-oxadiazolyl, 1,2,5-oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl,
         oxazolidinyl, oxazolyl, oxindolyl, pyrimidinyl, phenanthridinyl,
         phenanthrolinyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxathinyl, phenoxazinyl,
         phthalazinyl, piperazinyl, piperidinyl, piperidonyl, 4-piperidonyl, piperonyl,
  25     pteridinyl, purinyl, pyranyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl, pyrazolyl,
         pyridazinyl, pyridooxazole, pyridoimidazole, pyridothiazole, pyridinyl,
         pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, 2H-pyrrolyl, pyrrolyl,
         quinazolinyl, quinolinyl, 4H-quinolizinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinuclidinyl,
         tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, tetrazolyl,
  30     6H-1,2,5-thiadiazinyl, 1,2,3-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,4-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,5
         thiadiazolyl, 1,3,4-thiadiazolyl, thianthrenyl, thiazolyl, thienyl,
         thienothiazolyl, thienooxazolyl, thienoimidazolyl, thiophenyl and xanthenyl.
                                                 12

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
                 "Alkylaryl", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group substituted with
         an aryl group (e.g., an aromatic or hetero aromatic group).
                 "Heterocycle" or "heterocyclic", as used herein, refers to a cyclic
         radical attached via a ring carbon or nitrogen of a monocyclic or bicyclic
    5    ring containing 3-10 ring atoms, and preferably from 5-6 ring atoms,
         consisting of carbon and one to four heteroatoms each selected from the
         group consisting of non-peroxide oxygen, sulfur, and N(Y) wherein Y is
         absent or is H, 0, (C1 4 ) alkyl, phenyl or benzyl, and optionally containing
         one or more double or triple bonds, and optionally substituted with one or
  10     more substituents. The term "heterocycle" also encompasses substituted and
         unsubstituted heteroaryl rings. Examples of heterocyclic ring include, but
         are not limited to, benzimidazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiofuranyl,
         benzothiophenyl, benzoxazolyl, benzoxazolinyl, benzthiazolyl, benztriazolyl,
         benztetrazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzisothiazolyl, benzimidazolinyl,
  15     carbazolyl, 4aH-carbazolyl, carbolinyl, chromanyl, chromenyl, cinnolinyl,
         decahydroquinolinyl, 2H,6H-1,5,2-dithiazinyl,
         dihydrofuro[2,3-b]tetrahydrofuran, furanyl, furazanyl, imidazolidinyl,
         imidazolinyl, imidazolyl, 1H-indazolyl, indolenyl, indolinyl, indolizinyl,
         indolyl, 3H-indolyl, isatinoyl, isobenzofuranyl, isochromanyl, isoindazolyl,
  20     isoindolinyl, isoindolyl, isoquinolinyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl,
         methylenedioxyphenyl, morpholinyl, naphthyridinyl,
         octahydroisoquinolinyl, oxadiazolyl, 1,2,3-oxadiazolyl, 1,2,4-oxadiazolyl,
         1,2,5-oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl, oxazolidinyl, oxazolyl, oxindolyl,
         pyrimidinyl, phenanthridinyl, phenanthrolinyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl,
  25     phenoxathinyl, phenoxazinyl, phthalazinyl, piperazinyl, piperidinyl,
         piperidonyl, 4-piperidonyl, piperonyl, pteridinyl, purinyl, pyranyl, pyrazinyl,
         pyrazolidinyl, pyrazolinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyridooxazole,
         pyridoimidazole, pyridothiazole, pyridinyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl,
         pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, 2H-pyrrolyl, pyrrolyl, quinazolinyl, quinolinyl, 4H
  30     quinolizinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinuclidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl,
         tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, tetrazolyl, 6H-1,2,5
         thiadiazinyl, 1,2,3-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,4-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,5-thiadiazolyl, 1,3,4
                                                  13

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         thiadiazolyl, thianthrenyl, thiazolyl, thienyl, thienothiazolyl, thienooxazolyl,
         thienoimidazolyl, thiophenyl and xanthenyl.
                  "Heteroaryl", as used herein, refers to a monocyclic aromatic ring
         containing five or six ring atoms consisting of carbon and 1, 2, 3, or 4
    5    heteroatoms each selected from the group consisting of non-peroxide
         oxygen, sulfur, and N(Y) where Y is absent or is H, 0, (CI-Cs) alkyl, phenyl
         or benzyl. Non-limiting examples of heteroaryl groups include furyl,
         imidazolyl, triazolyl, triazinyl, oxazoyl, isoxazoyl, thiazolyl, isothiazoyl,
         pyrazolyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazinyl, tetrazolyl, pyridyl, (or its N-oxide), thienyl,
  10     pyrimidinyl (or its N-oxide), indolyl, isoquinolyl (or its N-oxide), quinolyl
         (or its N-oxide) and the like. The term "heteroaryl" can include radicals of an
         ortho-fused bicyclic heterocycle of about eight to ten ring atoms derived
         therefrom, particularly a benz-derivative or one derived by fusing a
         propylene, trimethylene, or tetramethylene diradical thereto. Examples of
  15     heteroaryl can be furyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl, triazinyl, oxazoyl, isoxazoyl,
         thiazolyl, isothiazoyl, pyraxolyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazinyl, tetrazolyl, pyridyl (or its
        N-oxide), thientyl, pyrimidinyl (or its N-oxide), indolyl, isoquinolyl (or its
        N-oxide), quinolyl (or its N-oxide), and the like.
                  "Halogen", as used herein, refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or
  20     iodine.
                  The term "substituted" as used herein, refers to all permissible
         substituents of the compounds described herein. In the broadest sense, the
         permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic, branched and
         unbranched, carbocyclic and heterocyclic, aromatic and nonaromatic
  25     substituents of organic compounds. Illustrative substituents include, but are
         not limited to, halogens, hydroxyl groups, or any other organic groupings
         containing any number of carbon atoms, preferably 1-14 carbon atoms, and
         optionally include one or more heteroatoms such as oxygen, sulfur, or
         nitrogen grouping in linear, branched, or cyclic structural formats.
  30     Representative substituents include alkyl, substituted alkyl, alkenyl,
         substituted alkenyl, alkynyl, substituted alkynyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl,
         aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, halo, hydroxyl,
         alkoxy, substituted alkoxy, phenoxy, substituted phenoxy, aroxy, substituted
                                                  14

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         aroxy, alkylthio, substituted alkylthio, phenylthio, substituted phenylthio,
         arylthio, substituted arylthio, cyano, isocyano, substituted isocyano,
         carbonyl, substituted carbonyl, carboxyl, substituted carboxyl, amino,
         substituted amino, amido, substituted amido, sulfonyl, substituted sulfonyl,
    5    sulfonic acid, phosphoryl, substituted phosphoryl, phosphonyl, substituted
         phosphonyl, polyaryl, substituted polyaryl, C3 -C 20 cyclic, substituted C3 -C 20
         cyclic, heterocyclic, substituted heterocyclic, aminoacid, peptide, and
         polypeptide groups.
                  Heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or
  10     any permissible substituents of organic compounds described herein which
         satisfy the valences of the heteroatoms. It is understood that "substitution"
         or "substituted" includes the implicit proviso that such substitution is in
         accordance with permitted valence of the substituted atom and the
         substituent, and that the substitution results in a stable compound, i.e. a
  15     compound that does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by
         rearrangement, cyclization, elimination, etc.
                  "Obese," as used herein, refers to a patient having a body mass index
         of greater than 30 kg/m 2 . "Overweight" and "Pre-Obese," as used herein,
         refer to patients having a body mass index of greater than 25 kg/m 2.
  20     "Morbidly Obese," as used herein, refers to a patient having a body mass
         index of greater than 40 kg/m 2 , a body mass index of greater than 35 kg/m 2
         in combination with one or more co-morbidities, a body mass index of
         greater than 30 kg/m 2 in combination with uncontrollable diabetes, or
         combinations thereof.
  25              "Effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount", as used
         herein, refers to an amount of a weight loss agent that is effective to induce
         weight loss in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, reduce body fat
         in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, reduce food intake in a pre
         obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, improve glucose homeostasis in a
  30     pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, prevent weight gain and/or
         prevent an increase in body mass index in a normal, pre-obese, obese, or
         morbidly obese patient, or combinations thereof.
                                                 15

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
                  The weight loss agent can also be a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
         of any of the compounds described above. In some cases, it may be
         desirable to prepare the salt of a compound described above due to one or
         more of the salt's advantageous physical properties, such as enhanced
    5    stability or a desirable solubility or dissolution profile.
                  Generally, pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared by
         reaction of the free acid or base forms of a compound described above with a
         stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water, in an organic
         solvent, or in a mixture of the two. Generally, non-aqueous media including
  10     ether, ethyl acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists
         of suitable salts are found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 20th ed.,
         Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000, p. 704; and
         "Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts: Properties, Selection, and Use," P.
         Heinrich Stahl and Camille G. Wermuth, Eds., Wiley-VCH, Weinheim,
  15     2002.
                  Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those
         derived from inorganic acids, such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic,
         hydrofluoric, boric, fluoroboric, phosphoric, metaphosphoric, nitric,
         carbonic, sulfonic, and sulfuric acids, and organic acids such as acetic,
  20     benzenesulfonic, benzoic, citric, ethanesulfonic, fumaric, gluconic, glycolic,
         isothionic, lactic, lactobionic, maleic, malic, methanesulfonic,
         trifluoromethanesulfonic, succinic, toluenesulfonic, tartaric, and
         trifluoroacetic acids.
                  Suitable organic acids generally include, for example, aliphatic,
  25     cycloaliphatic, aromatic, araliphatic, heterocyclic, carboxylic, and sulfonic
         classes of organic acids. Specific examples of suitable organic acids include
         acetate, trifluoroacetate, formate, propionate, succinate, glycolate, gluconate,
         digluconate, lactate, malate, tartaric acid, citrate, ascorbate, glucuronate,
         maleate, fumarate, pyruvate, aspartate, glutamate, benzoate, anthranilic acid,
  30     mesylate, stearate, salicylate, p-hydroxybenzoate, phenylacetate, mandelate,
         embonate (pamoate), methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate,
         pantothenate, toluenesulfonate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, sufanilate,
         cyclohexylaminosulfonate, algenic acid,     p-hydroxybutyric acid, galactarate,
                                                  16

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         galacturonate, adipate, alginate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate,
         cyclopentanepropionate, dodecylsulfate, glycoheptanoate, glycerophosphate,
         heptanoate, hexanoate, nicotinate, 2-naphthalesulfonate, oxalate, palmoate,
         pectinate, 3-phenylpropionate, pirate, pivalate, thiocyanate, tosylate, and
    5    undecanoate.
                  In some cases, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt may include
         alkali metal salts, including sodium or potassium salts; alkaline earth metal
         salts, e.g., calcium or magnesium salts; and salts formed with suitable
         organic ligands, e.g., quaternary ammonium salts. Base salts can also be
  10     formed from bases which form non-toxic salts, including aluminum,
         arginine, benzathine, choline, diethylamine, diolamine, glycine, lysine,
         meglumine, olamine, tromethamine and zinc salts.
                  Organic salts may be made from secondary, tertiary or quaternary
         amine salts, such as tromethamine, diethylamine, N,N'
  15     dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine,
         ethylenediamine, meglumine (N-methylglucamine), and procaine. Basic
         nitrogen-containing groups may also be quaternized with agents such as
         lower alkyl (C 1 -C6 ) halides (e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl chlorides,
         bromides, and iodides), dialkyl sulfates (e.g., dimethyl, diethyl, dibuytl, and
  20     diamyl sulfates), long chain halides (e.g., decyl, lauryl, myristyl, and stearyl
         chlorides, bromides, and iodides), arylalkyl halides (e.g., benzyl and
         phenethyl bromides), and others.
                  The weight loss agent can also be a pharmaceutically acceptable
         prodrug of any of the compounds described above. Prodrugs are compounds
  25     that, when metabolized in vivo, undergo conversion to compounds having the
         desired pharmacological activity. Prodrugs can be prepared by replacing
         appropriate functionalities present in the compounds described above with
         "pro-moieties" as described, for example, in H. Bundgaar, Design of
         Prodrugs (1985). Examples of prodrugs include ester, ether or amide
  30     derivatives of the compounds described above, polyethylene glycol
         derivatives of the compounds described above, N-acyl amine derivatives,
         dihydropyridine pyridine derivatives, amino-containing derivatives
         conjugated to polypeptides, 2-hydroxybenzamide derivatives, carbamate
                                                   17

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         derivatives, N-oxides derivatives that are biologically reduced to the active
         amines, and N-mannich base derivatives. For further discussion of prodrugs,
         see, for example, Rautio, J. et al. Nature Reviews DrugDiscovery. 7:255-270
         (2008).
    5    11.     Weight-loss agents
                  Tetracyclic triterpenes that can be administered to promote weight
         loss, reduce body fat, reduce food intake, improve glucose homeostasis, or
         combinations thereof are provided herein.
                  In certain embodiments, the weight loss agent is a compound defined
  10     by Formula I
                                                                      R6
                                                          H                    Ry
                                        R4             ,E               '
                                                        MlllH               O
                                                                            0
          R3
                     |A             B     AH      H
                                                        R5
          R2
                             0
                       OR1
                  wherein R1 -R7 are independently hydrogen, carboxylic acid (
         COOH), formyl, acyl, primary amide (e.g., -CONH 2), secondary amide (e.g.,
  15     -CONHR 8 ), tertiary amide (e.g., -CONRsRs), secondary carbamate (e.g.,
         -OCONHR 8 ; -NHCOORs), tertiary carbamate (e.g., -OCONRsRs;
         -NRsCOOR 7), urea (e.g., -NHCONHRs; -NRsCONHRs; -NHCONRsRs,
         -NR8CONR8 R8 ), carbinol (e.g., -CH 2OH; -CHR 8 OH, -CR 8R8 OH), ether
         (e.g., -ORs), ester (e.g., -COORs), alcohol (-OH), thiol (-SH), primary amine
  20     (-NH 2), secondary amine (e.g., -NHRs), tertiary amine (e.g., -NRsRs),
         thioether (e.g., -SRs), sulfinyl group (e.g., -SORs), sulfonyl group (e.g.,
                                                  18

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         -SOORs), sulfino group, halogen, nitrile, or CF 3 ; or an alkyl, cycloalkyl,
         heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl group
         optionally substituted with between one and five substituents individually
         selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine, halogen, hydroxyl,
    5    ether, nitrile, CF 3, ester, amide, urea, carbamate, thioether, carboxylic acid,
         and aryl;
                 Rs, when present, is individually for each occurrence an alkyl,
         cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl
         group, optionally substituted with between one and five substituents
  10     individually selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine,
         halogen, hydroxyl, ether, nitrile, CF 3 , ester, amide, urea, carbamate,
         thioether, carboxylic acid, and aryl;
                 wherein the dotted line represents a single or double bond;
                 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.
  15             In some embodiments, the compound is Withaferin A. In other
         embodiments, the compound is Michael addition product of Withaferin A.
         The Michael addition reaction can occur on ring A and/or ring E. In still
         other embodiments, the compound is selected from 2,3-dihydrowithaferin A;
         2,3-dihydro-27-deoxywithaferin A; 2,3,24,25-tetrahydro-27-deoxywithaferin
  20     A, 4-Dehydrowithaferin Al; withaferin A diacetate; 155-Hydroxywithaferin
         A; 120-Hydroxywithaferin Al; UN-R 1 (metabolite of R. simplex); UN-R 2
         (metabolite of R. simplex).
                 The weight loss agents may have one or more chiral centers, and thus
         exist as one or more stereoisomers. Such stereoisomers can exist as a single
  25     enantiomer, a mixture of enantiomers, a mixture of diastereomers, or a
         racemic mixture.
                 As used herein, the term "stereoisomers" refers to compounds made
         up of the same atoms having the same bond order but having different three
         dimensional arrangements of atoms that are not interchangeable. The three
  30     dimensional structures are called configurations. As used herein, the term
         "enantiomers" refers to two stereoisomers that are non-superimposable
         mirror images of one another. As used herein, the term "optical isomer" is
         equivalent to the term "enantiomer". As used herein the term "diastereomer"
                                                   19

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         refers to two stereoisomers which are not mirror images but also not
         superimposable. The terms "racemate", "racemic mixture" or "racemic
         modification" refer to a mixture of equal parts of enantiomers. The term
         "chiral center" refers to a carbon atom to which four different groups are
    5    attached. Choice of the appropriate chiral column, eluent, and conditions
         necessary to effect separation of the pair of enantiomers is well known to one
         of ordinary skill in the art using standard techniques (see e.g. Jacques, J. et
         al., "Enantiomers, Racemates, and Resolutions", John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
         1981).
  10              The genus structure above shows a specific stereochemistry.
         However, other enantiomers and diastereomers, where the stereochemistry
         around one or more stereocenters is different, as described herein.
                  The weight loss agent can also be a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
         of any of the compounds described above. In some cases, it may be
  15     desirable to prepare the salt of a compound described above due to one or
         more of the salt's advantageous physical properties, such as enhanced
         stability or a desirable solubility or dissolution profile.
                  Generally, pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared by
         reaction of the free acid or base forms of a compound described above with a
  20     stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water, in an organic
         solvent, or in a mixture of the two. Generally, non-aqueous media including
         ether, ethyl acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists
         of suitable salts are found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 20th ed.,
         Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000, p. 704; and
  25     "Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts: Properties, Selection, and Use," P.
         Heinrich Stahl and Camille G. Wermuth, Eds., Wiley-VCH, Weinheim,
         2002.
                  Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those
         derived from inorganic acids, such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic,
  30     hydrofluoric, boric, fluoroboric, phosphoric, metaphosphoric, nitric,
         carbonic, sulfonic, and sulfuric acids, and organic acids such as acetic,
         benzenesulfonic, benzoic, citric, ethanesulfonic, fumaric, gluconic, glycolic,
         isothionic, lactic, lactobionic, maleic, malic, methanesulfonic,
                                                  20

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         trifluoromethanesulfonic, succinic, toluenesulfonic, tartaric, and
         trifluoroacetic acids.
                  Suitable organic acids generally include, for example, aliphatic,
         cycloaliphatic, aromatic, araliphatic, heterocyclic, carboxylic, and sulfonic
    5    classes of organic acids. Specific examples of suitable organic acids include
         acetate, trifluoroacetate, formate, propionate, succinate, glycolate, gluconate,
         digluconate, lactate, malate, tartaric acid, citrate, ascorbate, glucuronate,
         maleate, fumarate, pyruvate, aspartate, glutamate, benzoate, anthranilic acid,
         mesylate, stearate, salicylate, p-hydroxybenzoate, phenylacetate, mandelate,
  10     embonate (pamoate), methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate,
         pantothenate, toluenesulfonate, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate, sufanilate,
         cyclohexylaminosulfonate, algenic acid,     p-hydroxybutyric    acid, galactarate,
         galacturonate, adipate, alginate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate,
         cyclopentanepropionate, dodecylsulfate, glycoheptanoate, glycerophosphate,
  15     heptanoate, hexanoate, nicotinate, 2-naphthalesulfonate, oxalate, palmoate,
         pectinate, 3-phenylpropionate, pirate, pivalate, thiocyanate, tosylate, and
         undecanoate.
                  In some cases, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt may include
         alkali metal salts, including sodium or potassium salts; alkaline earth metal
  20     salts, e.g., calcium or magnesium salts; and salts formed with suitable
         organic ligands, e.g., quaternary ammonium salts. Base salts can also be
         formed from bases which form non-toxic salts, including aluminum,
         arginine, benzathine, choline, diethylamine, diolamine, glycine, lysine,
         meglumine, olamine, tromethamine and zinc salts.
  25              Organic salts may be made from secondary, tertiary or quaternary
         amine salts, such as tromethamine, diethylamine, N,N'
         dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine,
         ethylenediamine, meglumine (N-methylglucamine), and procaine. Basic
         nitrogen-containing groups may also be quaternized with agents such as
  30     lower alkyl (C1 -C6) halides (e.g., methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl chlorides,
         bromides, and iodides), dialkyl sulfates (e.g., dimethyl, diethyl, dibuytl, and
         diamyl sulfates), long chain halides (e.g., decyl, lauryl, myristyl, and stearyl
                                                 21

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         chlorides, bromides, and iodides), arylalkyl halides (e.g., benzyl and
         phenethyl bromides), and others.
                 The weight loss agent can also be a pharmaceutically acceptable
         prodrug of any of the compounds described above. Prodrugs are compounds
    5    that, when metabolized in vivo, undergo conversion to compounds having the
         desired pharmacological activity. Prodrugs can be prepared by replacing
         appropriate functionalities present in the compounds described above with
         "pro-moieties" as described, for example, in H. Bundgaar, Design of
         Prodrugs (1985). Examples of prodrugs include ester, ether or amide
  10     derivatives of the compounds described above, polyethylene glycol
         derivatives of the compounds described above, N-acyl amine derivatives,
         dihydropyridine pyridine derivatives, amino-containing derivatives
         conjugated to polypeptides, 2-hydroxybenzamide derivatives, carbamate
         derivatives, N-oxides derivatives that are biologically reduced to the active
  15     amines, and N-mannich base derivatives. For further discussion of prodrugs,
         see, for example, Rautio, J. et al. Nature Reviews Drug Discovery. 7:255-270
         (2008).
         III.    Methods of preparation
                 The weight loss agents described above can be prepared using
  20     methods known in the art. Representative methodologies for the preparation
         of certain active agents are described below. The appropriate route for
         synthesis of a given weight loss agent can be selected in view of the structure
         of the compound as a whole as it relates to compatibility of functional
         groups, protecting group strategies, and the presence of labile bonds.
  25     IV.     Pharmaceutical Formulations
                 Pharmaceutical formulations are provided containing a
         therapeutically effective amount of a weight loss agent described herein, or a
         pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof, in combination with one
         or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Representative excipients
  30     include solvents, diluents, pH modifying agents, preservatives, antioxidants,
         suspending agents, wetting agents, viscosity modifiers, tonicity agents,
         stabilizing agents, and combinations thereof. Suitable pharmaceutically
         acceptable excipients are preferably selected from materials that are
                                                22

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         generally recognized as safe (GRAS), and may be administered to an
         individual without causing undesirable biological side effects or unwanted
         interactions.
                 A.      Additional Therapeutics
    5            In some cases, the pharmaceutical formulation can further contain
         one or more additional active agents.
                 In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulations further
         contain leptin, a leptin analog, or combinations thereof.
                 Leptin is a peptide hormone that serves as the afferent signal in a
  10     negative feedback loop regulating food intake and body weight in vivo.
         Unprocessed human leptin is synthesized in vivo as a 167 amino acid, 16
         kDa protein prohormone. Unprocessed leptin includes an N-terminal 21
         amino acid signal sequence that is cleaved from the remainder of the
         polypeptide to generate mature, circulating, leptin (containing 146 amino
  15     acids).
                 The terms "leptin" and "leptin analog," as used herein, encompass
         naturally occurring human leptin, naturally occurring leptin produced by a
         non-human species such as a mouse or rat, recombinantly produced mature
         leptin, such as metreleptin (i.e., recombinant methionyl human leptin or r
  20     metHuLeptin, which is a 147 amino acid leptin analog generated by the
         genetically engineered N-terminal addition of a methionine to the N-terminal
         amino acid of the 146-amino acid, mature, circulating, human leptin), as well
         as leptin fragments, leptin variants, leptin fusion proteins, and other
         derivatives thereof known in the art to possess biological activity.
  25             Exemplary leptin analogs and derivatives include those described in
         International Patent Publication Nos. WO 96/05309, WO 96/40912; WO
         97/06816, WO 00/20872, WO 97/18833, WO 97/38014, WO 98/08512, WO
         98/12224, WO 98/28427, WO 98/46257, WO 98/55139, WO 00/09165, WO
         00/47741, WO 2004/039832, WO 97/02004, and WO 00/21574;
  30     International Patent Applicant Nos. PCT/US96/22308 and PCT/US96/01471;
         U.S. Patent Nos. 5,521,283, 5,532,336, 5,552,524, 5,552,523, 5,552,522,
         5,935,810, 6,001,968, 6,429,290, 6,350,730, 6,936,439, 6,420,339,
         6,541,033, 7,112,659, 7,183,254, and 7,208,577, and U.S. Patent Publication
                                                 23

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
        Nos. 2005/0176107, 2005/0163799. Exemplary leptin variants include those
         where the amino acid at position 43 is substituted with Asp or Glu; position
         48 is substituted Ala; position 49 is substituted with Glu, or absent; position
         75 is substituted with Ala; position 89 is substituted with Leu; position 93 is
    5    substituted with Asp or Glu; position 98 is substituted with Ala; position 117
         is substituted with Ser, position 139 is substituted with Leu, position 167 is
         substituted with Ser, and any combination thereof.
                 In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation includes r
         metHuLeptin (A-100, METRELEPTIN@), available from Amylin
  10     Pharmaceuticals (San Diego, Calif.).
                 Pharmaceutical formulations can also include one or more vitamins,
         minerals, dietary supplements, nutraceutical agents, such as proteins,
         carbohydrates, amino acids, fatty acids, antioxidants, and plant or animal
         extracts, or combinations thereof. Suitable vitamins, minerals, nutraceutical
  15     agents, and dietary supplements are known in the art, and disclosed, for
         example, in Roberts et al., (Nutriceuticals:The Complete Encyclopedia of
         Supplements, Herbs, Vitamins, and HealingFoods, American Nutriceutical
         Association, 2001). Nutraceutical agents and dietary supplements are also
         disclosed in Physicians'DeskReference for NutritionalSupplements, 1st Ed.
  20     (2001) and The Physicians'DeskReference for HerbalMedicines, 1st Ed.
         (2001).
                 In some embodiments, the formulation does not contain a compound
         with 5-HT6 receptor affinity in combination with the steroidal lactone.
                 B.       Enteral Formulations
  25             Suitable oral dosage forms include tablets, capsules, solutions,
         suspensions, syrups, and lozenges. Tablets can be made using compression
         or molding techniques well known in the art. Gelatin or non-gelatin capsules
         can prepared as hard or soft capsule shells, which can encapsulate liquid,
         solid, and semi-solid fill materials, using techniques well known in the art.
  30             Formulations may be prepared using one or more pharmaceutically
         acceptable excipients, including diluents, preservatives, binders, lubricants,
         disintegrators, swelling agents, fillers, stabilizers, and combinations thereof.
                                                 24

WO 2015/081093                                                                 PCT/US2014/067393
                  Excipients, including plasticizers, pigments, colorants, stabilizing
         agents, and glidants, may also be used to form coated compositions for
         enteral administration. Delayed release dosage formulations may be
         prepared as described in standard references such as "Pharmaceutical dosage
    5    form tablets", eds. Liberman et. al. (New York, Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1989),
         "Remington - The science and practice of pharmacy", 20th ed., Lippincott
         Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000, and "Pharmaceutical dosage
         forms and drug delivery systems", 6th Edition, Ansel et al., (Media, PA:
         Williams and Wilkins, 1995). These references provide information on
  10     excipients, materials, equipment and process for preparing tablets and
         capsules and delayed release dosage forms of tablets, capsules, and granules.
                  Examples of suitable coating materials include, but are not limited to,
         cellulose polymers such as cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropyl
         cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
  15     phthalate and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate; polyvinyl
         acetate phthalate, acrylic acid polymers and copolymers, and methacrylic
         resins that are commercially available under the trade name EUDRAGIT@
         (Roth Pharma, Westerstadt, Germany), zein, shellac, and polysaccharides.
                  Diluents, also referred to as "fillers," are typically necessary to
  20     increase the bulk of a solid dosage form so that a practical size is provided
         for compression of tablets or formation of beads and granules. Suitable
         diluents include, but are not limited to, dicalcium phosphate dihydrate,
         calcium sulfate, lactose, sucrose, mannitol, sorbitol, cellulose,
         microcrystalline cellulose, kaolin, sodium chloride, dry starch, hydrolyzed
  25     starches, pregelatinized starch, silicone dioxide, titanium oxide, magnesium
         aluminum silicate and powdered sugar.
                  Binders are used to impart cohesive qualities to a solid dosage
         formulation, and thus ensure that a tablet or bead or granule remains intact
         after the formation of the dosage forms. Suitable binder materials include,
  30     but are not limited to, starch, pregelatinized starch, gelatin, sugars (including
         sucrose, glucose, dextrose, lactose and sorbitol), polyethylene glycol, waxes,
         natural and synthetic gums such as acacia, tragacanth, sodium alginate,
         cellulose, including hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
                                                  25

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         ethylcellulose, and veegum, and synthetic polymers such as acrylic acid and
         methacrylic acid copolymers, methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl
         methacrylate copolymers, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymers, polyacrylic
         acid/polymethacrylic acid and polyvinylpyrrolidone.
    5             Lubricants are used to facilitate tablet manufacture. Examples of
         suitable lubricants include, but are not limited to, magnesium stearate,
         calcium stearate, stearic acid, glycerol behenate, polyethylene glycol, talc,
         and mineral oil.
                  Disintegrants are used to facilitate dosage form disintegration or
  10     "breakup" after administration, and generally include, but are not limited to,
         starch, sodium starch glycolate, sodium carboxymethyl starch, sodium
         carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, pregelatinized starch,
         clays, cellulose, alginine, gums or cross linked polymers, such as cross
         linked PVP (Polyplasdone@ XL from GAF Chemical Corp).
  15              Stabilizers are used to inhibit or retard drug decomposition reactions
         that include, by way of example, oxidative reactions. Suitable stabilizers
         include, but are not limited to, antioxidants, butylated hydroxytoluene
         (BHT); ascorbic acid, its salts and esters; Vitamin E, tocopherol and its salts;
         sulfites such as sodium metabisulphite; cysteine and its derivatives; citric
  20     acid; propyl gallate, and butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA).
                          1. Controlled release formulations
                  Oral dosage forms, such as capsules, tablets, solutions, and
         suspensions, can for formulated for controlled release. For example, the one
         or more compounds and optional one or more additional active agents can be
  25     formulated into nanoparticles, microparticles, and combinations thereof, and
         encapsulated in a soft or hard gelatin or non-gelatin capsule or dispersed in a
         dispersing medium to form an oral suspension or syrup. The particles can be
         formed of the drug and a controlled release polymer or matrix.
         Alternatively, the drug particles can be coated with one or more controlled
  30     release coatings prior to incorporation in to the finished dosage form.
                  In another embodiment, the one or more compounds and optional one
         or more additional active agents are dispersed in a matrix material, which
         gels or emulsifies upon contact with an aqueous medium, such as
                                                  26

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         physiological fluids. In the case of gels, the matrix swells entrapping the
         active agents, which are released slowly over time by diffusion and/or
         degradation of the matrix material. Such matrices can be formulated as
         tablets or as fill materials for hard and soft capsules.
    5            In still another embodiment, the one or more compounds, and
         optional one or more additional active agents are formulated into a sold oral
         dosage form, such as a tablet or capsule, and the solid dosage form is coated
         with one or more controlled release coatings, such as a delayed release
         coatings or extended release coatings. The coating or coatings may also
  10     contain the compounds and/or additional active agents.
                                  Extended releaseformulations
                 The extended release formulations are generally prepared as diffusion
         or osmotic systems, for example, as described in "Remington - The science
         and practice of pharmacy" (20th ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins,
  15     Baltimore, MD, 2000). A diffusion system typically consists of two types of
         devices, a reservoir and a matrix, and is well known and described in the art.
         The matrix devices are generally prepared by compressing the drug with a
         slowly dissolving polymer carrier into a tablet form. The three major types
         of materials used in the preparation of matrix devices are insoluble plastics,
  20     hydrophilic polymers, and fatty compounds. Plastic matrices include, but are
         not limited to, methyl acrylate-methyl methacrylate, polyvinyl chloride, and
         polyethylene. Hydrophilic polymers include, but are not limited to,
         cellulosic polymers such as methyl and ethyl cellulose,
         hydroxyalkylcelluloses such as hydroxypropyl-cellulose,
  25     hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and
         Carbopol@ 934, polyethylene oxides and mixtures thereof. Fatty compounds
         include, but are not limited to, various waxes such as carnauba wax and
         glyceryl tristearate and wax-type substances including hydrogenated castor
         oil or hydrogenated vegetable oil, or mixtures thereof.
  30             In certain embodiments, the plastic material is a pharmaceutically
         acceptable acrylic polymer, including but not limited to, acrylic acid and
         methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate
         copolymers, ethoxyethyl methacrylates, cyanoethyl methacrylate, aminoalkyl
                                                  27

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic acid),
         methacrylic acid alkylamine copolymer poly(methyl methacrylate),
         poly(methacrylic acid)(anhydride), polymethacrylate, polyacrylamide,
         poly(methacrylic acid anhydride), and glycidyl methacrylate copolymers. In
    5    certain embodiments, the acrylic polymer is comprised of one or more
         ammonio methacrylate copolymers. Ammonio methacrylate copolymers are
         well known in the art, and are described in NF XVII as fully polymerized
         copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters with a low content of
         quaternary ammonium groups.
  10             In one embodiment, the acrylic polymer is an acrylic resin lacquer
         such as that which is commercially available from Rohm Pharma under the
         tradename EUDRAGIT@ In further preferred embodiments, the acrylic
         polymer comprises a mixture of two acrylic resin lacquers commercially
         available from Rohm Pharma under the tradenames EUDRAGIT@ RL30D
  15     and EUDRAGIT @ RS30D, respectively. EUDRAGIT@ RL30D and
         EUDRAGIT@. RS30D are copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic esters with
         a low content of quaternary ammonium groups, the molar ratio of
         ammonium groups to the remaining neutral (meth)acrylic esters being 1:20
         in EUDRAGIT@ RL30D and 1:40 in EUDRAGIT@ RS30D. The mean
  20     molecular weight is about 150,000. EUDRAGIT @ S-100 and
         EUDRAGIT@ L-100 are also preferred. The code designations RL (high
         permeability) and RS (low permeability) refer to the permeability properties
         of these agents. EUDRAGIT@ RL/RS mixtures are insoluble in water and in
         digestive fluids. However, multiparticulate systems formed to include the
  25     same are swellable and permeable in aqueous solutions and digestive fluids.
                 The polymers described above such as EUDRAGIT@ RL/RS may be
         mixed together in any desired ratio in order to ultimately obtain a sustained
         release formulation having a desirable dissolution profile. Desirable
         sustained-release multiparticulate systems may be obtained, for instance,
  30     from 100% EUDRAGIT@RL, 50% EUDRAGIT@ RL and 50%
         EUDRAGIT@ RS, and 10% EUDRAGIT@ RL and 90% EUDRAGIT@ RS.
         One skilled in the art will recognize that other acrylic polymers may also be
         used, such as, for example, EUDRAGIT@L.
                                                28

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
                 Alternatively, extended release formulations can be prepared using
         osmotic systems or by applying a semi-permeable coating to the dosage
         form. In the latter case, the desired drug release profile can be achieved by
         combining low permeable and high permeable coating materials in suitable
    5    proportion.
                 The devices with different drug release mechanisms described above
         can be combined in a final dosage form comprising single or multiple units.
         Examples of multiple units include, but are not limited to, multilayer tablets
         and capsules containing tablets, beads, or granules. An immediate release
  10     portion can be added to the extended release system by means of either
         applying an immediate release layer on top of the extended release core
         using a coating or compression process or in a multiple unit system such as a
         capsule containing extended and immediate release beads.
                 Extended release tablets containing hydrophilic polymers are
  15     prepared by techniques commonly known in the art such as direct
         compression, wet granulation, or dry granulation. Their formulations usually
         incorporate polymers, diluents, binders, and lubricants as well as the active
         pharmaceutical ingredient. The usual diluents include inert powdered
         substances such as starches, powdered cellulose, especially crystalline and
  20     microcrystalline cellulose, sugars such as fructose, mannitol and sucrose,
         grain flours and similar edible powders. Typical diluents include, for
         example, various types of starch, lactose, mannitol, kaolin, calcium
         phosphate or sulfate, inorganic salts such as sodium chloride and powdered
         sugar. Powdered cellulose derivatives are also useful. Typical tablet binders
  25     include substances such as starch, gelatin and sugars such as lactose,
         fructose, and glucose. Natural and synthetic gums, including acacia,
         alginates, methylcellulose, and polyvinylpyrrolidone can also be used.
         Polyethylene glycol, hydrophilic polymers, ethylcellulose and waxes can
         also serve as binders. A lubricant is necessary in a tablet formulation to
  30     prevent the tablet and punches from sticking in the die. The lubricant is
         chosen from such slippery solids as talc, magnesium and calcium stearate,
         stearic acid and hydrogenated vegetable oils.
                                                29

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
                 Extended release tablets containing wax materials are generally
         prepared using methods known in the art such as a direct blend method, a
         congealing method, and an aqueous dispersion method. In the congealing
         method, the drug is mixed with a wax material and either spray- congealed or
    5    congealed and screened and processed.
                                  Delayed releaseformulations
                 Delayed release formulations can be created by coating a solid
         dosage form with a polymer film, which is insoluble in the acidic
         environment of the stomach, and soluble in the neutral environment of the
  10     small intestine.
                 The delayed release dosage units can be prepared, for example, by
         coating a drug or a drug-containing composition with a selected coating
         material. The drug-containing composition may be, e.g., a tablet for
         incorporation into a capsule, a tablet for use as an inner core in a "coated
  15     core" dosage form, or a plurality of drug-containing beads, particles or
         granules, for incorporation into either a tablet or capsule. Preferred coating
         materials include bioerodible, gradually hydrolyzable, gradually water
         soluble, and/or enzymatically degradable polymers, and may be conventional
         "enteric" polymers. Enteric polymers, as will be appreciated by those skilled
  20     in the art, become soluble in the higher pH environment of the lower
         gastrointestinal tract or slowly erode as the dosage form passes through the
         gastrointestinal tract, while enzymatically degradable polymers are degraded
         by bacterial enzymes present in the lower gastrointestinal tract, particularly
         in the colon. Suitable coating materials for effecting delayed release include,
  25     but are not limited to, cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose,
         hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl
         cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose acetate succinate,
         hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate, methylcellulose, ethyl cellulose,
         cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimellitate and
  30     carboxymethylcellulose sodium; acrylic acid polymers and copolymers,
         preferably formed from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, ethyl
         acrylate, methyl methacrylate and/or ethyl methacrylate, and other
         methacrylic resins that are commercially available under the tradename
                                                 30

WO 2015/081093                                                                  PCT/US2014/067393
         EUDRAGIT (Rohm Pharma; Westerstadt, Germany), including
         EUDRAGIT9 L30D-55 and L100-55 (soluble at pH 5.5 and above),
         EUDRAGIT L-100 (soluble at pH 6.0 and above), EUDRAGIT S
         (soluble at pH 7.0 and above, as a result of a higher degree of esterification),
    5    and EUDRAGITs NE, RL and RS (water-insoluble polymers having
         different degrees of permeability and expandability); vinyl polymers and
         copolymers such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone, vinyl acetate, vinylacetate
         phthalate, vinylacetate crotonic acid copolymer, and ethylene-vinyl acetate
         copolymer; enzymatically degradable polymers such as azo polymers, pectin,
  10     chitosan, amylose and guar gum; zein and shellac. Combinations of different
         coating materials may also be used. Multi-layer coatings using different
         polymers may also be applied.
                  The preferred coating weights for particular coating materials may be
         readily determined by those skilled in the art by evaluating individual release
  15     profiles for tablets, beads and granules prepared with different quantities of
         various coating materials. It is the combination of materials, method and
         form of application that produce the desired release characteristics, which
         one can determine only from the clinical studies.
                  The coating composition may include conventional additives, such as
  20     plasticizers, pigments, colorants, stabilizing agents, glidants, etc. A
         plasticizer is normally present to reduce the fragility of the coating, and will
         generally represent about 10 wt. % to 50 wt. % relative to the dry weight of
         the polymer. Examples of typical plasticizers include polyethylene glycol,
         propylene glycol, triacetin, dimethyl phthalate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl
  25     phthalate, dibutyl sebacate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, triethyl acetyl
         citrate, castor oil and acetylated monoglycerides. A stabilizing agent is
         preferably used to stabilize particles in the dispersion. Typical stabilizing
         agents are nonionic emulsifiers such as sorbitan esters, polysorbates and
         polyvinylpyrrolidone. Glidants are recommended to reduce sticking effects
  30     during film formation and drying, and will generally represent approximately
         25 wt. % to 100 wt. % of the polymer weight in the coating solution. One
         effective glidant is talc. Other glidants such as magnesium stearate and
         glycerol monostearates may also be used. Pigments such as titanium dioxide
                                                 31

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         may also be used. Small quantities of an anti-foaming agent, such as a
         silicone (e.g., simethicone), may also be added to the coating composition.
                                 PulsatileRelease
                 The formulation can provide pulsatile delivery of the one or more of
    5    the compounds disclosed herein. By "pulsatile" is meant that a plurality of
         drug doses are released at spaced apart intervals of time. Generally, upon
         ingestion of the dosage form, release of the initial dose is substantially
         immediate, i.e., the first drug release "pulse" occurs within about one hour of
         ingestion. This initial pulse is followed by a first time interval (lag time)
  10     during which very little or no drug is released from the dosage form, after
         which a second dose is then released. Similarly, a second nearly drug
         release-free interval between the second and third drug release pulses may be
         designed. The duration of the nearly drug release-free time interval will vary
         depending upon the dosage form design e.g., a twice daily dosing profile, a
  15     three times daily dosing profile, etc. For dosage forms providing a twice
         daily dosage profile, the nearly drug release-free interval has a duration of
         approximately 3 hours to 14 hours between the first and second dose. For
         dosage forms providing a three times daily profile, the nearly drug release
         free interval has a duration of approximately 2 hours to 8 hours between each
  20     of the three doses.
                 In one embodiment, the pulsatile release profile is achieved with
         dosage forms that are closed and preferably sealed capsules housing at least
         two drug-containing "dosage units" wherein each dosage unit within the
         capsule provides a different drug release profile. Control of the delayed
  25     release dosage unit(s) is accomplished by a controlled release polymer
         coating on the dosage unit, or by incorporation of the active agent in a
         controlled release polymer matrix. Each dosage unit may comprise a
         compressed or molded tablet, wherein each tablet within the capsule
         provides a different drug release profile. For dosage forms mimicking a
  30     twice a day dosing profile, a first tablet releases drug substantially
         immediately following ingestion of the dosage form, while a second tablet
         releases drug approximately 3 hours to less than 14 hours following
         ingestion of the dosage form. For dosage forms mimicking a three times
                                                 32

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         daily dosing profile, a first tablet releases drug substantially immediately
         following ingestion of the dosage form, a second tablet releases drug
         approximately 3 hours to less than 10 hours following ingestion of the
         dosage form, and the third tablet releases drug at least 5 hours to
    5    approximately 18 hours following ingestion of the dosage form. It is
         possible that the dosage form includes more than three tablets. While the
         dosage form will not generally include more than a third tablet, dosage forms
         housing more than three tablets can be utilized.
                 Alternatively, each dosage unit in the capsule may comprise a
  10     plurality of drug-containing beads, granules or particles. As is known in the
         art, drug-containing "beads" refer to beads made with drug and one or more
         excipients or polymers. Drug-containing beads can be produced by applying
         drug to an inert support, e.g., inert sugar beads coated with drug or by
         creating a "core" comprising both drug and one or more excipients. As is
  15     also known, drug-containing "granules" and "particles" comprise drug
         particles that may or may not include one or more additional excipients or
         polymers. In contrast to drug-containing beads, granules and particles do
         not contain an inert support. Granules generally comprise drug particles and
         require further processing. Generally, particles are smaller than granules, and
  20     are not further processed. Although beads, granules and particles may be
         formulated to provide immediate release, beads and granules are generally
         employed to provide delayed release.
                 C.      Parenteral Formulations
                 The compounds can be formulated for parenteral administration.
  25     "Parenteral administration", as used herein, means administration by any
         method other than through the digestive tract or non-invasive topical or
         regional routes. For example, parenteral administration may include
         administration to a patient intravenously, intradermally, intraperitoneally,
         intrapleurally, intratracheally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, by injection,
  30     and by infusion.
                 Parenteral formulations can be prepared as aqueous compositions
         using techniques is known in the art. Typically, such compositions can be
         prepared as injectable formulations, for example, solutions or suspensions;
                                                   33

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         solid forms suitable for using to prepare solutions or suspensions upon the
         addition of a reconstitution medium prior to injection; emulsions, such as
         water-in-oil (w/o) emulsions, oil-in-water (o/w) emulsions, and
         microemulsions thereof, liposomes, or emulsomes.
    5             The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for
         example, water, ethanol, one or more polyols (e.g., glycerol, propylene
         glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol), oils, such as vegetable oils (e.g.,
         peanut oil, corn oil, sesame oil, etc.), and combinations thereof. The proper
         fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating, such as
  10     lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
         dispersion and/or by the use of surfactants. In many cases, it will be
         preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride.
                  Solutions and dispersions of the active compounds as the free acid or
         base or pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof can be prepared in water
  15     or another solvent or dispersing medium suitably mixed with one or more
         pharmaceutically acceptable excipients including, but not limited to,
         surfactants, dispersants, emulsifiers, pH modifying agents, and combination
         thereof.
                  Suitable surfactants may be anionic, cationic, amphoteric or nonionic
  20     surface active agents. Suitable anionic surfactants include, but are not limited
         to, those containing carboxylate, sulfonate and sulfate ions. Examples of
         anionic surfactants include sodium, potassium, ammonium of long chain
         alkyl sulfonates and alkyl aryl sulfonates such as sodium dodecylbenzene
         sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium dodecylbenzene
  25     sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium bis-(2
         ethylthioxyl)-sulfosuccinate; and alkyl sulfates such as sodium lauryl sulfate.
         Cationic surfactants include, but are not limited to, quaternary ammonium
         compounds such as benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride,
         cetrimonium bromide, stearyl dimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride,
  30     polyoxyethylene and coconut amine. Examples of nonionic surfactants
         include ethylene glycol monostearate, propylene glycol myristate, glyceryl
         monostearate, glyceryl stearate, polyglyceryl-4-oleate, sorbitan acylate,
         sucrose acylate, PEG-150 laurate, PEG-400 monolaurate, polyoxyethylene
                                                  34

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         monolaurate, polysorbates, polyoxyethylene octylphenylether, PEG-1000
         cetyl ether, polyoxyethylene tridecyl ether, polypropylene glycol butyl ether,
         Poloxamer 401, stearoyl monoisopropanolamide, and polyoxyethylene
         hydrogenated tallow amide. Examples of amphoteric surfactants include
    5    sodium N-dodecyl-o-alanine, sodium N-lauryl--iminodipropionate,
         myristoamphoacetate, lauryl betaine and lauryl sulfobetaine.
                  The formulation can contain a preservative to prevent the growth of
         microorganisms. Suitable preservatives include, but are not limited to,
         parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and thimerosal. The
  10     formulation may also contain an antioxidant to prevent degradation of the
         active agent(s).
                  The formulation is typically buffered to a pH of 3-8 for parenteral
         administration upon reconstitution. Suitable buffers include, but are not
         limited to, phosphate buffers, acetate buffers, and citrate buffers.
  15              Water soluble polymers are often used in formulations for parenteral
         administration. Suitable water-soluble polymers include, but are not limited
         to, polyvinylpyrrolidone, dextran, carboxymethylcellulose, and polyethylene
         glycol.
                  Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the
  20     active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent or
         dispersion medium with one or more of the excipients listed above, as
         required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
         prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a
         sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required
  25     other ingredients from those listed above. In the case of sterile powders for
         the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of
         preparation are vacuum-drying and freeze-drying techniques which yield a
         powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a
         previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. The powders can be prepared in
  30     such a manner that the particles are porous in nature, which can increase
         dissolution of the particles. Methods for making porous particles are well
         known in the art.
                                                  35

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
                           1. Controlled release formulations
                 The parenteral formulations described herein can be formulated for
         controlled release including immediate release, delayed release, extended
         release, pulsatile release, and combinations thereof.
    5                            Nano- and microparticles
                 For parenteral administration, the compounds, and optionally one or
         more additional active agents, can be incorporated into microparticles,
         nanoparticles, or combinations thereof that provide controlled release. In
         embodiments wherein the formulations contains two or more drugs, the
  10     drugs can be formulated for the same type of controlled release (e.g.,
         delayed, extended, immediate, or pulsatile) or the drugs can be
         independently formulated for different types of release (e.g., immediate and
         delayed, immediate and extended, delayed and extended, delayed and
         pulsatile, etc.).
  15             For example, the compounds and/or one or more additional active
         agents can be incorporated into polymeric microparticles that provide
         controlled release of the drug(s). Release of the drug(s) is controlled by
         diffusion of the drug(s) out of the microparticles and/or degradation of the
         polymeric particles by hydrolysis and/or enzymatic degradation. Suitable
  20     polymers include ethylcellulose and other natural or synthetic cellulose
         derivatives.
                 Polymers that are slowly soluble and form a gel in an aqueous
         environment, such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose or polyethylene oxide
         may also be suitable as materials for drug containing microparticles. Other
  25     polymers include, but are not limited to, polyanhydrides, poly(ester
         anhydrides), polyhydroxy acids, such as polylactide (PLA), polyglycolide
         (PGA), poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA), poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB)
         and copolymers thereof, poly-4-hydroxybutyrate (P4HB) and copolymers
         thereof, polycaprolactone and copolymers thereof, and combinations thereof.
  30             Alternatively, the drug(s) can be incorporated into microparticles
         prepared from materials which are insoluble in aqueous solution or slowly
         soluble in aqueous solution, but are capable of degrading within the GI tract
         by means including enzymatic degradation, surfactant action of bile acids,
                                                  36

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         and/or mechanical erosion. As used herein, the term "slowly soluble in
         water" refers to materials that are not dissolved in water within a period of
         30 minutes. Preferred examples include fats, fatty substances, waxes, wax
         like substances and mixtures thereof. Suitable fats and fatty substances
    5    include fatty alcohols (such as lauryl, myristyl stearyl, cetyl or cetostearyl
         alcohol), fatty acids and derivatives, including, but not limited to, fatty acid
         esters, fatty acid glycerides (mono-, di- and tri-glycerides), and hydrogenated
         fats. Specific examples include, but are not limited to hydrogenated
         vegetable oil, hydrogenated cottonseed oil, hydrogenated castor oil,
  10     hydrogenated oils available under the trade name Sterotex@, stearic acid,
         cocoa butter, and stearyl alcohol. Suitable waxes and wax-like materials
         include natural or synthetic waxes, hydrocarbons, and normal waxes.
         Specific examples of waxes include beeswax, glycowax, castor wax,
         carnauba wax, paraffins and candelilla wax. As used herein, a wax-like
  15     material is defined as any material that is normally solid at room temperature
         and has a melting point of from about 30 to 300'C.
                  In some cases, it may be desirable to alter the rate of water
         penetration into the microparticles. To this end, rate-controlling (wicking)
         agents may be formulated along with the fats or waxes listed above.
  20     Examples of rate-controlling materials include certain starch derivatives
         (e.g., waxy maltodextrin and drum dried corn starch), cellulose derivatives
         (e.g., hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
         methylcellulose, and carboxymethyl-cellulose), alginic acid, lactose and talc.
         Additionally, a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant (for example,
  25     lecithin) may be added to facilitate the degradation of such microparticles.
                  Proteins that are water insoluble, such as zein, can also be used as
         materials for the formation of drug containing microparticles. Additionally,
         proteins, polysaccharides and combinations thereof that are water soluble can
         be formulated with drug into microparticles and subsequently cross-linked to
  30     form an insoluble network. For example, cyclodextrins can be complexed
         with individual drug molecules and subsequently cross-linked.
                  Encapsulation or incorporation of drug into carrier materials to
         produce drug containing microparticles can be achieved through known
                                                 37

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         pharmaceutical formulation techniques. In the case of formulation in fats,
         waxes or wax-like materials, the carrier material is typically heated above its
         melting temperature and the drug is added to form a mixture comprising drug
         particles suspended in the carrier material, drug dissolved in the carrier
    5    material, or a mixture thereof. Microparticles can be subsequently
         formulated through several methods including, but not limited to, the
         processes of congealing, extrusion, spray chilling or aqueous dispersion. In a
         preferred process, wax is heated above its melting temperature, drug is
         added, and the molten wax-drug mixture is congealed under constant stirring
  10     as the mixture cools. Alternatively, the molten wax-drug mixture can be
         extruded and spheronized to form pellets or beads. Detailed descriptions of
         these processes can be found in "Remington- The science and practice of
         pharmacy", 20th Edition, Jennaro et. al., (Phila, Lippencott, Williams, and
         Wilkens, 2000).
  15             For some carrier materials it may be desirable to use a solvent
         evaporation technique to produce drug containing microparticles. In this
         case drug and carrier material are co-dissolved in a mutual solvent and
         microparticles can subsequently be produced by several techniques
         including, but not limited to, forming an emulsion in water or other
  20     appropriate media, spray drying or by evaporating off the solvent from the
         bulk solution and milling the resulting material.
                 In some embodiments, drug in a particulate form is homogeneously
         dispersed in a water-insoluble or slowly water soluble material. To minimize
         the size of the drug particles within the composition, the drug powder itself
  25     may be milled to generate fine particles prior to formulation. The process of
        jet milling, known in the pharmaceutical art, can be used for this purpose. In
         some embodiments drug in a particulate form is homogeneously dispersed in
         a wax or wax like substance by heating the wax or wax like substance above
         its melting point and adding the drug particles while stirring the mixture. In
  30     this case a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant may be added to the
         mixture to facilitate the dispersion of the drug particles.
                 The particles can also be coated with one or more modified release
         coatings. Solid esters of fatty acids, which are hydrolyzed by lipases, can be
                                                 38

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         spray coated onto microparticles or drug particles. Zein is an example of a
         naturally water-insoluble protein. It can be coated onto drug containing
         microparticles or drug particles by spray coating or by wet granulation
         techniques. In addition to naturally water-insoluble materials, some
    5    substrates of digestive enzymes can be treated with cross-linking procedures,
         resulting in the formation of non-soluble networks. Many methods of cross
         linking proteins, initiated by both chemical and physical means, have been
         reported. One of the most common methods to obtain cross-linking is the
         use of chemical cross-linking agents. Examples of chemical cross-linking
  10     agents include aldehydes (gluteraldehyde and formaldehyde), epoxy
         compounds, carbodiimides, and genipin. In addition to these cross-linking
         agents, oxidized and native sugars have been used to cross-link gelatin
         (Cortesi, R., et al., Biomaterials 19 (1998) 1641-1649). Cross-linking can
         also be accomplished using enzymatic means; for example, transglutaminase
  15     has been approved as a GRAS substance for cross-linking seafood products.
         Finally, cross-linking can be initiated by physical means such as thermal
         treatment, UV irradiation and gamma irradiation.
                 To produce a coating layer of cross-linked protein surrounding drug
         containing microparticles or drug particles, a water soluble protein can be
  20     spray coated onto the microparticles and subsequently cross-linked by the
         one of the methods described above. Alternatively, drug containing
         microparticles can be microencapsulated within protein by coacervation
         phase separation (for example, by the addition of salts) and subsequently
         cross-linked. Some suitable proteins for this purpose include gelatin,
  25     albumin, casein, and gluten.
                 Polysaccharides can also be cross-linked to form a water-insoluble
         network. For many polysaccharides, this can be accomplished by reaction
         with calcium salts or multivalent cations that cross-link the main polymer
         chains. Pectin, alginate, dextran, amylose and guar gum are subject to cross
  30     linking in the presence of multivalent cations. Complexes between
         oppositely charged polysaccharides can also be formed; pectin and chitosan,
         for example, can be complexed via electrostatic interactions.
                                                 39

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
                                  Depot Formulations
                   Active agents can be formulated for depot injection. In a depot
         injection, the active agent is formulated with one or more pharmaceutically
    5    acceptable carriers that provide for the gradual release of active agent over a
         period of hours or days after injection. The depot formulation can be
         administered by any suitable means; however, the depot formulation is
         typically administered via subcutaneous or intramuscular injection.
                   A variety of carriers may be incorporated into the depot formulation
  10     to provide for the controlled release of the active agent. In some cases, depot
         formulations contain one or more biodegradable polymeric or oligomeric
         carriers. Suitable polymeric carriers include, but are not limited to
         poly(lactic acid) (PLA), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic
         acid)-polyethyleneglycol (PLA-PEG) block copolymers, polyanhydrides,
  15     poly(ester anhydrides), ppolyglycolide (PGA), poly-3-hydroxybutyrate
         (PHB) and copolymers thereof, poly-4-hydroxybutyrate (P4HB),
         polycaprolactone, cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, ethylcellulose,
         as well as blends, derivatives, copolymers, and combinations thereof.
                   In depot formulations containing a polymeric or oligomeric carrier,
  20     the carrier and active agent can be formulated as a solution, an emulsion, or
         suspension. One or more weight loss agents, and optionally one or more
         additional active agents, can also be incorporated into polymeric or
         oligomeric microparticles, nanoparticles, or combinations thereof.
                   In some cases, the formulation is fluid and designed to solidify or gel
  25     (i.e., forming a hydrogel or organogel) upon injection. This can result from a
         change in solubility of the composition upon injection, or for example, by
         injecting a pre-polymer mixed with an initiator and/or crosslinking agent.
         The polymer matrix, polymer solution, or polymeric particles entrap the
         active agent at the injection site. As the polymeric carrier is gradually
  30     degraded, the active agent is released, either by diffusion of the agent out of
         the matrix and/or dissipation of the matrix as it is absorbed. The release rate
         of the active agent from the injection site can be controlled by varying, for
         example, the chemical composition, molecular weight, crosslink density,
                                                 40

WO 2015/081093                                                                 PCT/US2014/067393
         and/or concentration of the polymeric carrier. Examples of such systems
         include those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,938,763, 5,480,656 and
         6,113,943.
                  Depot formulations can also be prepared by using other rate
    5    controlling excipients, including hydrophobic materials, including acceptable
         oils (e.g., peanut oil, corn oil, sesame oil, cottonseed oil, etc.) and
         phospholipids, ion-exchange resins, and sparingly soluble carriers.
                  The depot formulation can further contain a solvent or dispersion
         medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, one or more polyols (e.g.,
  10     glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol), oils, such as
         vegetable oils (e.g., peanut oil, corn oil, sesame oil, etc.), and combinations
         thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
         coating, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in
         the case of dispersion and/or by the use of surfactants. In many cases, it will
  15     be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars or sodium
         chloride.
                  Solutions and dispersions of the weight loss agents as the free acid or
         base or pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof can be prepared in water
         or another solvent or dispersing medium suitably mixed with one or more
  20     pharmaceutically acceptable excipients including, but not limited to,
         surfactants, dispersants, emulsifiers, pH modifying agents, and combination
         thereof.
                  Suitable surfactants may be anionic, cationic, amphoteric or nonionic
         surface active agents. Suitable anionic surfactants include, but are not limited
  25     to, those containing carboxylate, sulfonate and sulfate ions. Examples of
         anionic surfactants include sodium, potassium, ammonium of long chain
         alkyl sulfonates and alkyl aryl sulfonates such as sodium dodecylbenzene
         sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium dodecylbenzene
         sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium bis-(2
  30     ethylthioxyl)-sulfosuccinate; and alkyl sulfates such as sodium lauryl sulfate.
         Cationic surfactants include, but are not limited to, quaternary ammonium
         compounds such as benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride,
         cetrimonium bromide, stearyl dimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride,
                                                 41

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         polyoxyethylene and coconut amine. Examples of nonionic surfactants
         include ethylene glycol monostearate, propylene glycol myristate, glyceryl
         monostearate, glyceryl stearate, polyglyceryl-4-oleate, sorbitan acylate,
         sucrose acylate, PEG-150 laurate, PEG-400 monolaurate, polyoxyethylene
    5    monolaurate, polysorbates, polyoxyethylene octylphenylether, PEG-1000
         cetyl ether, polyoxyethylene tridecyl ether, polypropylene glycol butyl ether,
         Poloxamer 401, stearoyl monoisopropanolamide, and polyoxyethylene
         hydrogenated tallow amide. Examples of amphoteric surfactants include
         sodium N-dodecyl-p-alanine, sodium N-lauryl-p-iminodipropionate,
  10     myristoamphoacetate, lauryl betaine and lauryl sulfobetaine.
                  The formulation can contain a preservative to prevent the growth of
         microorganisms. Suitable preservatives include, but are not limited to,
         parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and thimerosal. The
         formulation may also contain an antioxidant to prevent degradation of the
  15     active agent(s).
                  The formulation is typically buffered to a pH of 3-8 for parenteral
         administration upon reconstitution. Suitable buffers include, but are not
         limited to, phosphate buffers, acetate buffers, and citrate buffers.
                  Water soluble polymers are often used in formulations for parenteral
  20     administration. Suitable water-soluble polymers include, but are not limited
         to, polyvinylpyrrolidone, dextran, carboxymethylcellulose, and polyethylene
         glycol.
                  Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the
         active compounds in the required amount in the appropriate solvent or
  25     dispersion medium with one or more of the excipients listed above, as
         required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
         prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a
         sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required
         other ingredients from those listed above. In the case of sterile powders for
  30     the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of
         preparation are vacuum-drying and freeze-drying techniques which yield a
         powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a
         previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. The powders can be prepared in
                                                  42

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         such a manner that the particles are porous in nature, which can increase
         dissolution of the particles. Methods for making porous particles are well
         known in the art.
                                 Implants
    5            Implantation of a slow-release or sustained-release system, such that
         a constant level of dosage is maintained is also contemplated herein. In such
         cases, the active agent(s) provided herein can be dispersed in a solid matrix
         optionally coated with an outer rate-controlling membrane. The compound
         diffuses from the solid matrix (and optionally through the outer membrane)
  10     sustained, rate-controlled release. The solid matrix and membrane may be
         formed from any suitable material known in the art including, but not limited
         to, polymers, bioerodible polymers, and hydrogels.
                 C.      Pulmonary Formulations
                 The compounds described herein can be formulated for parenteral
  15     administration. Pharmaceutical formulations and methods for the pulmonary
         administration are known in the art.
                 The respiratory tract is the structure involved in the exchange of
         gases between the atmosphere and the blood stream. The respiratory tract
         encompasses the upper airways, including the oropharynx and larynx,
  20     followed by the lower airways, which include the trachea followed by
         bifurcations into the bronchi and bronchioli. The upper and lower airways
         are called the conducting airways. The terminal bronchioli then divide into
         respiratory bronchioli which then lead to the ultimate respiratory zone, the
         alveoli, or deep lung, where the exchange of gases occurs.
  25             The alveolar surface area is the largest in the respiratory system and
         is where drug absorption occurs. The alveoli are covered by a thin
         epithelium without cilia or a mucus blanket and secrete surfactant
         phospholipids. Effective delivery of therapeutic agents via pulmonary routes
         requires that the active agent be formulated so as to reach the alveoli.
  30             In the case of pulmonary administration, formulations can be divided
         into dry powder formulations and liquid formulations. Both dry powder and
         liquid formulations can be used to form aerosol formulations. The term
         aerosol as used herein refers to any preparation of a fine mist of particles,
                                                 43

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         which can be in solution or a suspension, whether or not it is produced using
         a propellant.
         Useful formulations, and methods of manufacture, are described by
         Caryalho, et al., J Aerosol Med Pulm Drug Deliv. 2011 Apr;24(2):61-80.
    5    Epub 2011 Mar 16, for delivery of chemotherapeutic drugs to the lungs.
                         1.      Dry Powder Formulations
                 Dry powder formulations are finely divided solid formulations
         containing one or more active agents which are suitable for pulmonary
         administration. In dry powder formulations, the one or more active agents
  10     can be incorporated in crystalline or amorphous form.
                 Dry powder formulations can be administered via pulmonary
         inhalation to a patient without the benefit of any carrier, other than air or a
         suitable propellant. Preferably, however, the dry powder formulations
         include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.
  15             The pharmaceutical carrier may include a bulking agent, such as
         carbohydrates (including monosaccharides, polysaccharides, and
         cyclodextrins), polypeptides, amino acids, and combinations thereof.
         Suitable bulking agents include fructose, galactose, glucose, lactitol, lactose,
         maltitol, maltose, mannitol, melezitose, myoinositol, palatinite, raffinose,
  20     stachyose, sucrose, trehalose, xylitol, hydrates thereof, and combinations
         thereof.
                 The pharmaceutical carrier may include a lipid or surfactant. Natural
         surfactants such as dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) are the most
         preferred. This is commercially available for treatment of respiratory
  25     distress syndrome in premature infants. Synthetic and animal derived
         pulmonary surfactants include:
         Synthetic Pulmonary Surfactants
         Exosurf - a mixture of DPPC with hexadecanol and tyloxapol added as
         spreading agents
  30     Pumactant (Artificial Lung Expanding Compound or ALEC) - a mixture of
         DPPC and PG
                                                 44

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         KL-4 - composed of DPPC, palmitoyl-oleoyl phosphatidylglycerol, and
         palmitic acid, combined with a 21 amino acid synthetic peptide that mimics
         the structural characteristics of SP-B.
         Venticute - DPPC, PG, palmitic acid and recombinant SP-C
    5            Animal derived surfactants
         Alveofact - extracted from cow lung lavage fluid
         Curosurf - extracted from material derived from minced pig lung
         Infasurf - extracted from calf lung lavage fluid
         Survanta - extracted from minced cow lung with additional DPPC, palmitic
  10     acid and tripalmitin
         Exosurf, Curosurf, Infasurf, and Survanta are the surfactants currently FDA
         approved for use in the U.S.
                 The pharmaceutical carrier may also include one or more stabilizing
         agents or dispersing agents. The pharmaceutical carrier may also include one
  15     or more pH adjusters or buffers. Suitable buffers include organic salts
         prepared from organic acids and bases, such as sodium citrate or sodium
         ascorbate. The pharmaceutical carrier may also include one or more salts,
         such as sodium chloride or potassium chloride.
                 Dry powder formulations are typically prepared by blending one or
  20     more active agents with a pharmaceutical carrier. Optionally, additional
         active agents may be incorporated into the mixture. The mixture is then
         formed into particles suitable for pulmonary administration using techniques
         known in the art, such as lyophilization, spray drying, agglomeration, spray
         coating, extrusion processes, hot melt particle formation, phase separation
  25     particle formation (spontaneous emulsion particle formation, solvent
         evaporation particle formation, and solvent removal particle formation),
         coacervation, low temperature casting, grinding, milling (e.g., air-attrition
         milling (jet milling), ball milling), high pressure homogenization, and/or
         supercritical fluid crystallization.
  30             An appropriate method of particle formation can be selected based on
         the desired particle size, particle size distribution, and particle morphology.
         In some cases, the method of particle formation is selected so as to produce a
         population of particles with the desired particle size, particle size distribution
                                                  45

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         for pulmonary administration. Alternatively, the method of particle
         formation can produce a population of particles from which a population of
         particles with the desired particle size, particle size distribution for
         pulmonary administration is isolated, for example by sieving.
    5            It is known in the art that particle morphology affects the depth of
         penetration of a particle into the lung as well as uptake of the drug particles.
         As discussed above, drug particles should reach the alveoli to maximize
         therapeutic efficacy. Accordingly, dry powder formulations is processed
         into particles having the appropriate mass median aerodynamic diameter
  10     (MMAD), tap density, and surface roughness to achieve delivery of the one
         or more active agents to the deep lung. Preferred particle morphologies for
         delivery to the deep lung are known in the art, and are described, for
         example, in U.S. Patent No. 7,052,678 to Vanbever, et al.
                 Particles having a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of
  15     greater than about 5 microns generally do not reach the lung; instead, they
         tend to impact the back of the throat and are swallowed. Particles having
         diameters of about 3 to about 5 microns are small enough to reach the upper
         to mid-pulmonary region (conducting airways), but may be too large to reach
         the alveoli. Smaller particles, (i.e., about 0.5 to about 3 microns), are
  20     capable of efficiently reaching the alveolar region. Particles having
         diameters smaller than about 0.5 microns can also be deposited in the
         alveolar region by sedimentation, although very small particles may be
         exhaled.
                 The precise particle size range effective to achieve delivery to the
  25     alveolar region will depend on several factors, including the tap density of
         particles being delivered. Generally speaking, as tap density decreases, the
         MMAD of particles capable of efficiently reaching the alveolar region of the
         lungs increases. Therefore, in cases of particles with low tap densities,
         particles having diameters of about 3 to about 5 microns, about 5 to about 7
  30     microns, or about 7 to about 9.5 microns can be efficiently delivered to the
         lungs. The preferred aerodyanamic diameter for maximum deposition within
         the lungs can be calculated. See, for example, U.S. Patent No. 7,052,678 to
         Vanbever, et al.
                                                  46

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
                 In some embodiments, the dry powder formulation is composed of a
         plurality of particles having a median mass aerodynamic diameter between
         about 0.5 to about 10 microns, more preferably between about 0.5 microns to
         about 7 microns, most preferably between about 0.5 to about 5 microns. In
    5    some embodiments, the dry powder formulation is composed of a plurality of
         particles having a median mass aerodynamic diameter between about 0.5 to
         about 3 microns. In some embodiments, the dry powder formulation is
         composed of a plurality of particles having a median mass aerodynamic
         diameter between about 3 to about 5 microns. In some embodiments, the dry
  10     powder formulation is composed of a plurality of particles having a median
         mass aerodynamic diameter between about 5 to about 7 microns. In some
         embodiments, the dry powder formulation is composed of a plurality of
         particles having a median mass aerodynamic diameter between about 7 to
         about 9.5 microns.
  15             In some cases, there may be an advantage to delivering particles
         larger than about 3 microns in diameter. Phagocytosis of particles by
         alveolar macrophages diminishes precipitously as particle diameter increases
         beyond about 3 microns. Kawaguchi, H., et al., Biomaterials 7: 61-66
         (1986); and Rudt, S. and Muller, R. H., J. Contr. Rel, 22: 263-272 (1992).
  20     By administering particles with an aerodynamic volume greater than 3
         microns, phagocytic engulfment by alveolar macrophages and clearance
         from the lungs can be minimized.
                 In some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably at least
         about 90%, most preferably at least about 95% of the particles in dry powder
  25     formulation have aerodynamic diameter of less than about 10 microns, more
         preferably less than about 7 microns, most preferably about 5 microns. In
         some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably at least about 90%,
         most preferably at least about 9 5%, of the particles in dry powder
         formulation have aerodynamic diameter of greater than about 0.5 microns.
  30     In some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably at least about
         9 0% , most preferably at least about 9 5%, of the particles in dry powder
         formulation have an aerodynamic diameter of greater than about 0.1 microns.
                                                 47

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
                  In some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably at least
                9
         about    0%, most preferably at least about 95%, of the particles in dry
         powder formulation have aerodynamic diameter of greater than about 0.5
         microns and less than about 10 microns, more preferably greater than about
    5    0.5 microns and less than about 7 microns, most preferably greater than
         about 0.5 microns and less than about 5 microns. In some embodiments, at
         least about 80%, more preferably at least about 90%, most preferably at least
         about 95% of the particles in dry powder formulation have aerodynamic
         diameter of greater than about 0.5 microns and less than about 3 microns. In
  10     some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably at least about 90%,
         most preferably at least about 95% of the particles in dry powder formulation
         have aerodynamic diameter of greater than about 3 microns and less than
         about 5 microns. In some embodiments, at least about 80%, more preferably
         at least about 9 0%, most preferably at least about 9 5% of the particles in dry
  15     powder formulation have aerodynamic diameter of greater than about 5
         microns and less than about 7 microns. In some embodiments, at least about
         80%, more preferably at least about 90%, most preferably at least about 95%
         of the particles in dry powder formulation have aerodynamic diameter of
         greater than about 7 microns and less than about 9.5 microns.
  20              In some embodiments, the particles have a tap density of less than
         about 0.4 g/cm3 , more preferably less than about 0.25 g/cm 3, most preferably
         less than about 0.1 g/cm 3 . Features which can contribute to low tap density
         include irregular surface texture and porous structure.
                  In some cases, the particles are spherical or ovoid in shape. The
  25     particles can have a smooth or rough surface texture. The particles may also
         be coated with a polymer or other suitable material to control release of one
         or more active agents in the lungs.
                  Dry powder formulations can be administered as dry powder using
         suitable methods known in the art. Alternatively, the dry powder
  30     formulations can be suspended in the liquid formulation s described below,
         and administered to the lung using methods known in the art for the delivery
         of liquid formulations.
                                                 48

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
                         2.      Liquid Formulations
                  Liquid formulations contain one or more weight loss agents dissolved
         or suspended in a liquid pharmaceutical carrier.
                  Suitable liquid carriers include, but are not limited to distilled water,
    5    de-ionized water, pure or ultrapure water, saline, and other physiologically
         acceptable aqueous solutions containing salts and/or buffers, such as
         phosphate buffered saline (PBS), Ringer's solution, and isotonic sodium
         chloride, or any other aqueous solution acceptable for administration to an
         animal or human.
  10              Preferably, liquid formulations are isotonic relative to physiological
         fluids and of approximately the same pH, ranging e.g., from about pH 4.0 to
         about pH 7.4, more preferably from about pH 6.0 to pH 7.0. The liquid
         pharmaceutical carrier can include one or more physiologically compatible
         buffers, such as a phosphate buffers. One skilled in the art can readily
  15     determine a suitable saline content and pH for an aqueous solution for
         pulmonary administration.
                  Liquid formulations may include one or more suspending agents,
         such as cellulose derivatives, sodium alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gum
         tragacanth, or lecithin. Liquid formulations may also include one or more
  20     preservatives, such as ethyl or n-propylp-hydroxybenzoate.
                  In some cases the liquid formulation may contain one or more
         solvents that are low toxicity organic (i.e., nonaqueous) class 3 residual
         solvents, such as ethanol, acetone, ethyl acetate, tetrahydofuran, ethyl ether,
         and propanol. These solvents can be selected based on their ability to readily
  25     aerosolize the formulation. Any such solvent included in the liquid
         formulation should not detrimentally react with the one or more active agents
         present in the liquid formulation. The solvent should be sufficiently volatile
         to enable formation of an aerosol of the solution or suspension. Additional
         solvents or aerosolizing agents, such as a freon, alcohol, glycol, polyglycol,
  30     or fatty acid, can also be included in the liquid formulation as desired to
         increase the volatility and/or alter the aerosolizing behavior of the solution or
         suspension.
                                                 49

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
                  Liquid formulations may also contain minor amounts of polymers,
         surfactants, or other excipients well known to those of the art. In this
         context, "minor amounts" means no excipients are present that might
         adversely affect uptake of the one or more active agents in the lungs.
    5             3.       Aerosol Formulations
                  The dry powder and liquid formulations described above can be used
         to form aerosol formulations for pulmonary administration. Aerosols for the
         delivery of therapeutic agents to the respiratory tract are known in the art.
         The term aerosol as used herein refers to any preparation of a fine mist of
  10     solid or liquid particles suspended in a gas. In some cases, the gas may be a
         propellant; however, this is not required. Aerosols may be produced using a
         number of standard techniques, including as ultrasonication or high pressure
         treatment.
                  Preferably, a dry powder or liquid formulation as described above is
  15     formulated into aerosol formulations using one or more propellants. Suitable
         propellants include air, hydrocarbons, such as pentane, isopentane, butane,
         isobutane, propane and ethane, carbon dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons,
         fluorocarbons, and combinations thereof. Suitable fluorocarbons include 1-6
         hydrogen containing fluorocarbons, such as CHF 2CHF 2, CF 3 CH 2 F,
  20     CH 2F2CH 3, and CF 3CHFCF3 as well as fluorinated ethers such as CF 3 -0
         CF 3 , CF 2 H-0-CHF 2, and CF 3 -CF 2 -0-CF 2 -CH 3 . Suitable fluorocarbons also
         include perfluorocarbons, such as 1-4 carbon perfluorocarbons including
         CF 3 CF 3 , CF 3 CF 2 CF 3 , and CF 3 CF 2 CF 2 CF 3.
                  Preferably, the propellants include, but not limited to, one or more
  25     hydrofluoroalkanes (HFA). Suitable HFA propellants, include but are not
         limited to, 1,1,1,2,3,3,-heptafluoro-n-propane (HFA 227), 1,1,1,2
         tetrafluoroethane (HFA 134) 1,1,1,2, 25 3,3,3-heptafluoropropane
         (Propellant 227), or any mixture of these propellants.
                  Preferably, the one or more propellants have sufficient vapor pressure
  30     to render them effective as propellants. Preferably, the one or more
         propellants are selected so that the density of the mixture is matched to the
         density of the particles in the aerosol formulation in order to minimize
         settling or creaming of the particles in the aerosol formulation.
                                                        50

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
                 The propellant is preferably present in an amount sufficient to propel
         a plurality of the selected doses of the aerosol formulation from an aerosol
         canister.
                          4.     Devices for Pulmonary Administration
    5            In some cases, a device is used to administer the formulations to the
         lungs. Suitable devices include, but are not limited to, dry powder inhalers,
         pressurized metered dose inhalers, nebulizers, and electrohydrodynamic
         aerosol devices.
                 Inhalation can occur through the nose and/or the mouth of the patient.
  10     Administration can occur by self-administration of the formulation while
         inhaling, or by administration of the formulation via a respirator to a patient
         on a respirator.
                          Dry PowderInhalers
                 The dry powder formulations described above can be administered to
  15     the lungs of a patient using a dry powder inhaler (DPI). DPI devices
         typically use a mechanism such as a burst of gas to create a cloud of dry
         powder inside a container, which can then be inhaled by the patient.
                 In a dry powder inhaler, the dose to be administered is stored in the
         form of a non-pressurized dry powder and, on actuation of the inhaler, the
  20     particles of the powder are inhaled by the subject. In some cases, a
         compressed gas (i.e., propellant) may be used to dispense the powder, similar
         to pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). In some cases, the DPI may
         be breath-actuated, meaning that an aerosol is created in precise response to
         inspiration. Typically, dry powder inhalers administer a dose of less than a
  25     few tens of milligrams per inhalation to avoid provocation of cough.
                 DPIs function via a variety of mechanical means to administer
         formulations to the lungs. In some DPIs, a doctor blade or shutter slides
         across the dry powder formulation contained in a reservoir, culling the
         formulation into a flowpath whereby the patient can inhale the powder in a
  30     single breath. In other DPIs, the dry powder formulation is packaged in a
         preformed dosage form, such as a blister, tabule, tablet, or gelcap, which is
         pierced, crushed, or otherwise unsealed to release the dry powder
         formulation into a flowpath for subsequent inhalation. Still others DPIs
                                                 51

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         release the dry powder formulation into a chamber or capsule and use
         mechanical or electrical agitators to keep the dry powder formulation
         suspended in the air until the patient inhales.
                  Dry powder formulations may be packaged in various forms, such as
    5    a loose powder, cake, or pressed shape for insertion in to the reservoir of a
         DPI.
                  Examples suitable DPIs for the administration of the formulations
         described above include the Turbohaler@ inhaler (Astrazeneca, Wilmington,
         Del.), the Clickhaler@ inhaler (Innovata, Ruddington, Nottingham, UK), the
  10     Diskus@ inhaler (Glaxo, Greenford, Middlesex, UK), the EasyHaler@
         (Orion, Expoo, FI), the Exubera@ inhaler (Pfizer, New York, N.Y.), the
         Qdose@ inhaler (Microdose, Monmouth Junction, N.J.), and the Spiros@
         inhaler (Dura, San Diego, Calif.).
                                 PressurizedMetered Dose Inhalers
  15              The liquid formulations described above can be administered to the
         lungs of a patient using a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI).
                  Pressurized Metered Dose Inhalers (pMDIs) generally include at least
         two components: a canister in which the liquid formulation is held under
         pressure in combination with one or more propellants, and a receptacle used
  20     to hold and actuate the canister. The canister may contain a single or
         multiple doses of the formulation. The canister may include a valve,
         typically a metering valve, from which the contents of the canister may be
         discharged. Aerosolized drug is dispensed from the pMDI by applying a
         force on the canister to push it into the receptacle, thereby opening the valve
  25     and causing the drug particles to be conveyed from the valve through the
         receptacle outlet. Upon discharge from the canister, the liquid formulation is
         atomized, forming an aerosol.
                  pMDIs typically employ one or more propellants to pressurize the
         contents of the canister and to propel the liquid formulation out of the
  30     receptacle outlet, forming an aerosol. Any suitable propellants, including
         those discussed above, may be utilized. The propellant may take a variety of
         forms. For example, the propellant may be a compressed gas or a liquefied
         gas. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) were once commonly used as liquid
                                                 52

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         propellants, but have now been banned. They have been replaced by the now
         widely accepted hydrofluororalkane (HFA) propellants.
                 pMDIs are available from a number of suppliers, including 3M
         Corporation, Aventis, Boehringer Ingleheim, Forest Laboratories, Glaxo
    5    Wellcome, Schering Plough and Vectura. In some cases, the patient
         administers an aerosolized formulation by manually discharging the
         aerosolized formulation from the pMDI in coordination with inspiration. In
         this way, the aerosolized formulation is entrained within the inspiratory air
         flow and conveyed to the lungs.
  10             In other cases, a breath-actuated trigger, such as that included in the
         Tempo@ inhaler (MAP Pharmaceuticals, Mountain View, Calif.) may be
         employed that simultaneously discharges a dose of the formulation upon
         sensing inhalation. These devices, which discharge the aerosol formulation
         when the user begins to inhale, are known as breath-actuated pressurized
  15     metered dose inhalers (baMDIs).
                                         Nebulizers
                 The liquid formulations described above can also be administered
         using a nebulizer. Nebulizers are liquid aerosol generators that convert the
         liquid formulation described able, usually aqueous-based compositions, into
  20     mists or clouds of small droplets, preferably having diameters less than 5
         microns mass median aerodynamic diameter, which can be inhaled into the
         lower respiratory tract. This process is called atomization. The droplets
         carry the one or more active agents into the nose, upper airways or deep
         lungs when the aerosol cloud is inhaled. Any type of nebulizer may be used
  25     to administer the formulation to a patient, including, but not limited to
         pneumatic (jet) nebulizers and electromechanical nebulizers.
                 Pneumatic (jet) nebulizers use a pressurized gas supply as a driving
         force for atomization of the liquid formulation. Compressed gas is delivered
         through a nozzle or jet to create a low pressure field which entrains a
  30     surrounding liquid formulation and shears it into a thin film or filaments.
         The film or filaments are unstable and break up into small droplets that are
         carried by the compressed gas flow into the inspiratory breath. Baffles
         inserted into the droplet plume screen out the larger droplets and return them
                                                 53

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         to the bulk liquid reservoir. Examples of pneumatic nebulizers include, but
         are not limited to, PARI LC Plus@, PARI LC Sprint@, Devilbiss
         PulmoAide@, and Boehringer Ingelheim Respima@.
                 Electromechanical nebulizers use electrically generated mechanical
    5    force to atomize liquid formulations. The electromechanical driving force
         can be applied, for example, by vibrating the liquid formulation at ultrasonic
         frequencies, or by forcing the bulk liquid through small holes in a thin film.
         The forces generate thin liquid films or filament streams which break up into
         small droplets to form a slow moving aerosol stream which can be entrained
  10     in an inspiratory flow.
                 In some cases, the electromechanical nebulizer is an ultrasonic
         nebulizer, in which the liquid formulation is coupled to a vibrator oscillating
         at frequencies in the ultrasonic range. The coupling is achieved by placing
         the liquid in direct contact with the vibrator such as a plate or ring in a
  15     holding cup, or by placing large droplets on a solid vibrating projector (a
         horn). The vibrations generate circular standing films which break up into
         droplets at their edges to atomize the liquid formulation. Examples of
         ultrasonic nebulizers include DuroMist@, Drive Medical Beetle Neb@,
         Octive Tech Densylogic@, and John Bunn Nano-Sonic@.
  20             In some cases, the electromechanical nebulizer is a mesh nebulizer, in
         which the liquid formulation is driven through a mesh or membrane with
         small holes ranging from 2 to 8 microns in diameter, to generate thin
         filaments which break up into small droplets. In certain designs, the liquid
         formulation is forced through the mesh by applying pressure with a solenoid
  25     piston driver (for example, the AERx@ nebulizer), or by sandwiching the
         liquid between a piezoelectrically vibrated plate and the mesh, which results
         in a oscillatory pumping action (for example EFlow@, AerovectRx@, or
         TouchSpray@ nebulizer). In other cases, the mesh vibrates back and forth
         through a standing column of the liquid to pump it through the holes.
  30     Examples of such nebilzers include the AeroNeb Go, AeroNeb Pro@.
         PARI EFlow@, Omron 22UE@; and Aradigm AERx@.
                                                 54

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
                                  ElectrohydrodynamicAerosol Devices
                 The liquid formulations described above can also be administered
         using an electrohydrodynamic (EHD) aerosol device. EHD aerosol devices
         use electrical energy to aerosolize liquid drug solutions or suspensions.
    5    Examples of EHD aerosol devices are known in the art. See, for example,
         U.S. Patent No. 4,765,539 to Noakes et al. and U.S. Patent No. 4,962,885 to
         Coffee, R.A.
                 The electrochemical properties of the formulation may be important
         parameters to optimize when delivering the liquid formulation to the lung
  10     with an EHD aerosol device and such optimization is routinely performed by
         one of skill in the art.
         V.      Methods of treatment
                 Pharmaceutical formulations containing one or more of the weight
         loss agents described herein can be administered to induce weight loss in a
  15     pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, reduce body fat in a pre-obese,
         obese, or morbidly obese patient, reduce food intake in a pre-obese, obese, or
         morbidly obese patient, improve glucose homeostasis in a pre-obese, obese,
         or morbidly obese patient, prevent weight gain and/or prevent an increase in
         body mass index in a normal, pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, or
  20     combinations thereof.
                 In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulations are
         administered to a patient suffering from obesity (e.g., a pre-obese, obese, or
         morbidly obese patient), an obesity-related disease or disorder, diabetes,
         insulin-resistance syndrome, lypodystrpohy, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, a
  25     cardiovascular disease, polycystic ovary syndrome, or a metabolic syndrome.
                 In cases where the pharmaceutical formulations are administered to
         normalize blood sugar, the formulations are preferably administered in an
         amount effective to lower blood glucose levels to less than about 180 mg/dL.
         The formulations can be co-administered with other anti-diabetic therapies, if
  30     necessary, to improve glucose homeostasis.
                 Pharmaceutical formulations may also be administered to patients
         suffering from a disease or disorder that causes obesity or predisposes a
         patient to become obese, such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome or a mutation in the
                                                55

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         gene encoding for the melanocortin receptor 3 (MC3R) protein (i.e., an
         MC3R mutation).
                 In mice fed a high fat diet (HFD), administration of withaferin A
         significantly decreased the body weight (p<0.001) and food intake (p<0.001,
    5    three days average within the first week of drug administration). At day 21 of
         the experiment, Withaferin A decreased blood glucose of obese mice.
         Withaferin A was administered to 10-week old lean mice on chow diet at 2
         mg/kg for three weeks by i.p. injection. Withaferin A failed to induce
         bodyweight loss or suppress food intake in lean mice, suggesting that the
  10     anorectic effect of Withaferin A is limited to obese animals. After 3 weeks of
         treatment blood glucose levels were not altered.
                 To explore whether Withaferin A's effect is leptin dependent,
         Withaferin A was administered to leptin receptor deficient (db/db) mouse
         model of obesity. The body weight of db/db mice continued to increase
  15     similar to the vehicle treated group, and the mice did not show a decrease in
         food intake upon Withaferin A administration. At the end of 3-week
         treatment blood glucose levels showed a tendency to decrease but did not
         reach statistically significant levels. The fact that Withaferin A decreased
         body weight and food intake in HFD-fed obese mice but not in db/db mice
  20     suggests that anorectic effect of Withaferin A is mediated through leptin
         signaling. Although HFD-fed obese mice have elevated leptin levels, they
         develop leptin resistance and do not respond to exogenous leptin
         administration. Therefore is it possible that Withaferin A exerts the anti
         obesity effects through increasing the leptin sensitivity in the brains of the
  25     HFD-fed obese mice.
                 Leptin was administered to Withaferin A or vehicle treated HFD-fed
         obese animals. Withaferin A did not change food intake of lean mice, and
         leptin administration to vehicle treated lean mice suppressed food intake as
         expected. Withaferin A administration to either lean or HFD mice
  30     significantly potentiated the anorectic action of leptin; Withaferin A treated
         lean mice showed approximately 50% and HFD-fed obese mice a staggering
         75% decrease in food intake upon leptin injection compared to the vehicle
         treated non-leptin group. In addition, HFD-fed obese mice were resistant to
                                                 56

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         the food intake reducing effect of leptin unless they received Withaferin A.
         Withaferin A alone decreased the food intake of HFD-fed obese mice in the
         absence of exogenous leptin administration, probably due to already elevated
         leptin levels of HFD-fed obese mice. Lean mass did not change after two
    5    weeks of chronic Withaferin A administration. However, fat percentage was
         decreased significantly in Withaferin A-treated HFD-fed animals.
                 A.       Dosages
                 The precise dosage administered to a patient will depend on many
         factors, including the physical characteristics of the patient (e.g., weight), the
  10     degree of severity of the disease or disorder to be treated, and the presence or
         absence of other complicating diseases or disorders and can be readily
         determined by the prescribing physician.
                 In certain embodiments, the weight loss agent is administered at a
         dosage equivalent to an oral dosage of between about 0.005 mg and about
  15     500 mg per kg of body weight per day, more preferably between about 0.05
         mg and about 100 mg per kg of body weight per day, most preferably
         between about 0.1 mg and about 10 mg per kg of body weight per day. In
         particular embodiments, the weight loss agent is administered at a dosage
         equivalent to an oral dosage of between about 1.0 mg and 15.0 mg per kg of
  20     body weight per day, preferably about 5.0 mg to about 15.0 mg per kg of
         body weight. In some embodiments, the dosage is about 10 mg per kg of
         body weight.
                 In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
  25     obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to induce weight loss. In
         certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to decrease body mass by
         at least 10%, more preferably by at least 15%, most preferably by at least
  30     20%.
                 In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to reduce body fat. In
                                                57

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to decrease body fat by at
         least 10%, more preferably by at least 15%, most preferably by at least 20%.
    5            In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to reduce food intake,
         appetite, or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical
         formulation containing one or more of the weight loss agents is administered
  10     to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient in a therapeutically effective
         amount to reduce average daily food intake (in terms of calories) by at least
         15%, more preferably by at least 25%, most preferably by at least 35%.
                 In some cases, a pharmaceutical formulation containing one or more
         of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
  15     obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount to improve glucose
         homeostasis. In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation
         containing one or more of the weight loss agents is administered to a pre
         obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient in a therapeutically effective amount
         to reduce average fasting plasma blood glucose by at least 10%, more
  20     preferably by at least 15%, most preferably by at least 2 0%. In cases where
         the pharmaceutical formulations are administered to normalize blood sugar,
         the formulations are preferably administered in an amount effective to lower
         overnight fasted plasma glucose levels to less than about 180 mg/dL, 160
         mg/dL, 140 mg/dL, 120 mg/dL, or 100 mg/dL.
  25             B.      Therapeutic Administration
                 Pharmaceutical formulations may be administered, for example, in a
         single dosage, as a continuous dosage, one or more times daily, or less
         frequently, such as once a week. The pharmaceutical formulations can be
         administered once a day or more than once a day, such as twice a day, three
  30     times a day, four times a day or more. In certain embodiments, the
         formulations are administered orally, once daily or less.
                 The pharmaceutical formulations are administered in an effective
         amount and for an effective period of time to elicit the desired therapeutic
                                                58

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         benefit. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is
         administered daily, bi-weekly, weekly, bi-monthly or monthly for a period of
         at least one week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, one month, two
         months, three months, four months, five months, six months, seven months,
    5    eight months, nine months, ten months, eleven months, one year, or longer.
                  The pharmaceutical formulations may also be administered
         prophylactically, e.g., to patients or subjects who are at risk for a disease or
         disorder such as diabetes or obesity. Thus, methods can also involve
         identifying a subject at risk for diabetes or obesity prior to administration of
  10     the formulations.
                  The exact amount of the formulations required will vary from subject
         to subject, depending on the species, age, sex, weight and general condition
         of the subject, extent of the disease in the subject, route of administration,
         whether other drugs are included in the regimen, and the like. Thus, it is not
  15     possible to specify an exact dosage for every formulation. However, an
         appropriate dosage can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art
         using only routine experimentation. For example, effective dosages and
         schedules for administering the compositions may be determined
         empirically, and making such determinations is within the skill in the art.
  20              Dosage can vary, and can be administered in one or more dose
         administrations daily, for one or several days. Guidance can be found in the
         literature for appropriate dosages for given classes of pharmaceutical
         products.
                          1.     Co-Administration with Active Agents
  25              In other embodiments, the compounds disclosed herein can be co
         administered with one or more additional therapeutic, prophylactic, or
         diagnostic agents. Co-administration, as used herein, includes administration
         within the same dosage form or within different dosage forms. For those
         embodiments where the compounds described herein and the one or more
  30     additional therapeutic, prophylactic, or diagnostic agents are administered in
         different dosage forms, the dosage forms can be administered simultaneously
         (e.g., at the same time or essentially at the same time) or sequentially.
         "Essentially at the same time" as used herein generally means within ten
                                                  59

WO 2015/081093                                                              PCT/US2014/067393
         minutes, preferably within five minutes, more preferably within two minutes,
         most preferably within in one minute. Dosage forms administered
         sequentially can be administered within several hours of each other, e.g.,
         with ten hours, nine hours, eight hours, seven hours, six hours, five hours,
    5    four hours, three hours, two hours, one hour, 30 minutes, 20 minutes, or 15
         minutes.
                 In certain embodiments, the weight loss agents described herein are
         co-administered with leptin or a leptin analog. In these cases, leptin or a
         leptin analog may be co-administered with the weight loss agents for a
  10     portion of the treatment period, or during the entirety of the treatment period.
         In preferred embodiments, the weight loss agents are co-administered with r
         metHuLeptin (A-100, METRELEPTIN@), available from Amylin
         Pharmaceuticals (San Diego, Calif.).
                 In certain embodiments, the patients are suffering from diabetes. In
  15     these cases, the weight loss agents described herein may be co-administered
         with one or more therapies for diabetes.
                                            Examples
         Example 1.      Administration of Withaferin A to obese mice
                 To investigate whether Withaferin A can act as an anti-obesity drug
  20     by increasing leptin sensitivity and reducing appetite, C57Bl/6J mice were
         placed on a high fat diet (HFD; Research Diets, D12451, 45 kcal% fat)
         feeding for 16 weeks. After establishment of obesity and leptin resistance,
         mice were administered Withaferin A (at 2 mg/kg, in 25 pl DMSO, once per
         day) and vehicle (DMSO, 25 pl) with intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection. The
  25     animals had free access to food and water unless otherwise stated. In all
         experiments, three days prior to drug administration, the animals went
         through an acclimation period where they were given DMSO (25 pl) to
         reduce the effect of stress created by i.p. injection.
                 Following three days acclimation, mice were administered Withaferin
  30     A daily i.p. injections at 2 mg/kg for three weeks in 25 pl of DMSO as
         vehicle, whereas the control group received the same volume of DMSO. As
         shown in Figure 1A, i.p. administration of Withaferin A significantly
         decreased the body weight (Figure 1A, p<0.001; Figure 1B, p<0.001) and
                                                 60

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
         food intake (Figure IC, p<0.001, three days average within the first week of
         drug administration) of HFD-fed obese. At day 21 of the experiment, the 6
         hour fasting blood glucose of mice was measured. Figure ID shows that
         Withaferin A decreases blood glucose of obese mice.
    5             Withaferin A was administered to 10-week old lean mice on chow
         diet at 2 mg/kg for three weeks by i.p. injections. As shown in Figure 2A and
         Figure 2B, Withaferin A failed to induce bodyweight loss or suppress food
         intake in lean mice, suggesting that the anorectic effect of Withaferin A is
         limited to obese animals. As seen in Figure 2C, after 3 weeks of treatment
  10     blood glucose levels were not altered. Based on these results, it was
         concluded that 2 mg/kg of Withaferin A is an effective dose to induce body
         weight loss in DIO mice but not in lean mice.
                  To explore whether Withaferin A's effect is leptin dependent,
         Withaferin A (2 mg/kg, once a day, in 25pl DMSO) was administered to
  15     leptin receptor deficient (db/db) mouse model of obesity. The body weight of
         db/db mice continued to increase similar to the vehicle treated group (Figure
         3A), and the mice did not show a decrease in food intake upon Withaferin A
         administration (Figure 3B). At the end of 3-week treatment blood glucose
         levels showed a tendency to decrease but did not reach statistically
  20     significant levels (Figure 3C).
                  The fact that Withaferin A decreased body weight and food intake in
         HFD-fed obese mice but not in db/db mice suggests that anorectic effect of
         Withaferin A is mediated through leptin signaling. Although HFD-fed obese
         mice have elevated leptin levels, they develop leptin resistance and do not
  25     respond to exogenous leptin administration. Therefore is it possible that
         Withaferin A exerts the anti-obesity effects through increasing the leptin
         sensitivity in the brains of the HFD-fed obese mice. To test this hypothesis,
         leptin was administered to Withaferin A or vehicle treated HFD-fed obese
         animals. To avoid any possible leptin sensitizing effect of weight loss or
  30     decreased food intake created by Withaferin A administration, leptin
         injections were carried out upon acute Withaferin A treatment. Lean and
         HFD-fed obese mice were divided into four groups: 1) DMSO+saline, 2)
         DMSO+leptin, 3) Withaferin A+saline, and 4) Withaferin A+leptin (n=6 per
                                                61

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
         group). The mice were injected (i.p.) with 1.5 mg/kg Withaferin A or vehicle
         (DMSO) one hour before dark cycle (day zero). 24 hours later, the second
         and final injection of DMSO or Withaferin A was administered. 30 minutes
         prior to dark cycle, mice received a single i.p. injection of leptin (1 mg/kg for
    5    HFD mice, dissolved in saline; 5 mg/kg for lean mice), or saline. Over night
         food intakes were recorded (HFD, Figure 4A; Chow Figure 4B). Withaferin
         A did not change food intake of lean mice, and leptin administration to
         vehicle treated lean mice suppressed food intake as expected. Withaferin A
         administration to either lean or HFD mice significantly potentiated the
  10     anorectic action of leptin; Withaferin A treated lean mice showed
         approximately 50% and HFD-fed obese mice a staggering 75% decrease in
         food intake upon leptin injection compared to the vehicle treated non-leptin
         group. In addition, HFD-fed obese mice were resistant to the food intake
         reducing effect of leptin unless they received Withaferin A (Figure 4A). Of
  15     note, Withaferin A alone, as expected, decreased the food intake of HFD-fed
         obese mice in the absence of exogenous leptin administration, probably due
         to already elevated leptin levels of HFD-fed obese mice.
                 To analyze the change in body composition during Withaferin A
         treatment (i.p. 2 mg/kg), lean mass and fat mass of mice with Dual-Emission
  20     X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) were measured. Lean mass did not change
         after two weeks of chronic Withaferin A administration (Figure 5A).
         However, fat percentage was decreased significantly in Withaferin A-treated
         HFD-fed animals (Figure 5B).
                 As mentioned above i.p. administration of Withaferin A results in a
  25     robust decrease in blood glucose levels of HFD-fed obese mice. In order to
         analyze the effect of Withaferin A on glucose homeostasis, we performed
         Glucose Tolerance Test (GTT) and Insulin Tolerance Test (ITT) after
         chronic i.p. Withaferin A treatment (2 mg/kg). For GTT, mice were fasted
         overnight following one week of Withaferin A treatment and received an i.p.
  30     injection of D-glucose (1 g/kg) in the morning. For ITT, after 16 days of
         Withaferin A treatment, mice were fasted for 6 hours (from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.)
         and recombinant human insulin (1 IU/kg from Eli Lilly) was injected
         intraperitoneally. In both procedures, blood glucose was measured from tail
                                                62

   vein blood at 0, 15, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after injection. As shown in
   Figure 6A, after one week of Withaferin A treatment glucose homeostasis is
   significantly improved in Withaferin A treated mice when compared with the
   vehicle-treated mice, as evident from the difference in Area Under the Curve
 5 (AUC) of GTT (Figure 6B, p<0.05). At day 16, ITT is performed and HFD
   fed obese mice showed improved insulin sensitivity as well (Fig 6C-D,
   p<0.01).
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
10 context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
   "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
   any other integer or step or group of integers or steps. The reference to any
   prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
15 acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
   the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                         63

WO 2015/081093                                                                PCT/US2014/067393
         We claim:
                  1.      A pharmaceutical formulation comprising a compound
         defined by Formula I:
                                                                               R6
                                                                 H                      R7
                                                 R4E                             '
                                                                           0
                                              00
                  R3
                             |A             B          H  H
                                                                R5
                  R2
                                      0
                                OR1
                  wherein R1 -R7 are independently hydrogen, carboxylic acid (
         COOH), formyl, acyl, primary amide (e.g., -CONH 2), secondary amide (e.g.,
         -CONHRs), tertiary amide (e.g., -CONRsRs), secondary carbamate (e.g.,
         -OCONHR 8 ; -NHCOORs), tertiary carbamate (e.g., -OCONRsRs;
         -NRsCOOR 7), urea (e.g., -NHCONHRs; -NRsCONHR 8 ; -NHCONR8 R8 ,
         -NR8CONR8 R8 ), carbinol (e.g., -CH 2OH; -CHR 8 OH, -CR 8R8 OH), ether
         (e.g., -ORs), ester (e.g., -COORs), alcohol (-OH), thiol (-SH), primary amine
         (-NH 2), secondary amine (e.g., -NHRs), tertiary amine (e.g., -NRsRs),
         thioether (e.g., -SRs), sulfinyl group (e.g., -SORs), sulfonyl group (e.g.,
         -SOORs), sulfino group, halogen, nitrile, or CF 3 ; or an alkyl, cycloalkyl,
         heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl group
         optionally substituted with between one and five substituents individually
         selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine, halogen, hydroxyl,
         ether, nitrile, CF 3, ester, amide, urea, carbamate, thioether, carboxylic acid,
         and aryl;
                                                   64

WO 2015/081093                                                               PCT/US2014/067393
                 Rs, when present, is individually for each occurrence an alkyl,
         cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, alkylaryl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, or heteroaryl
         group, optionally substituted with between one and five substituents
         individually selected from alkyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl ether, amine,
         halogen, hydroxyl, ether, nitrile, CF 3 , ester, amide, urea, carbamate,
         thioether, carboxylic acid, and aryl;
                 wherein the dotted line represents a single or double bond;
                 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof,
                 wherein the compound is present in a therapeutically effective
         amount to induce weight loss in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese
         patient; reduce body fat in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient;
         reduce food intake in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient; improve
         glucose homeostasis in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient; or
         combinations thereof.
                 2. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the compound is withaferin
         A.
                 3. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the compound is a Michael
         addition product of the compound of formula I.
                 4. The formulation of claim 3, wherein the Michael addition
         functionalization is at ring A.
                 5. The formulation of claim 3, wherein the Michael addition
         functionalization is at ring E.
                 6. The formulation of claim 1, further comprising leptin, a leptin
         analog, or combinations thereof.
                 7. A method of inducing weight loss in a pre-obese, obese, or
         morbidly obese patient, comprising administering a pharmaceutical
         formulation defined by any one of claims 1-6.
                 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the pharmaceutical formulation is
         administered in an effective amount to decrease body mass by at least 10%,
         more preferably by at least 15%, most preferably by at least 20%.
                 9. A method of reducing body fat in a pre-obese, obese, or morbidly
         obese patient, comprising administering a pharmaceutical formulation
         defined by any one of claims 1-6.
                                                  65

WO 2015/081093                                                             PCT/US2014/067393
                  10. The method of claim 9, wherein the pharmaceutical formulation
         is administered in an effective amount to decrease body fat by at least 10%,
         more preferably by at least 15%, most preferably by at least 20%.
                  11. A method of reducing food intake in a pre-obese, obese, or
         morbidly obese patient, comprising administering a pharmaceutical
         formulation defined by any one of claims 1-6.
                  12. The method of claim 11, wherein the pharmaceutical formulation
         is administered in an effective amount to reduce average daily food intake (in
         terms of calories) by at least 15%, more preferably by at least 25%, most
         preferably by at least 35%.
                  13. A method of improving glucose homeostasis in a pre-obese,
         obese, or morbidly obese patient, comprising administering a pharmaceutical
         formulation defined by any one of claims 1-6.
                  14. The method of claim 13, wherein the pharmaceutical formulation
         is administered in an effective amount to reduce average fasting plasma
         blood glucose by at least 10%, more preferably by at least 15%, most
         preferably by at least 20%.
                  15. The method of claim 13, wherein the pharmaceutical formulation
         is preferably administered in an amount effective to lower blood glucose
         levels to less than about 180 mg/dL.
                  16. The method of claim 13, wherein the formulation further
         comprises one or more anti-diabetic agents to improve glucose homeostasis.
                  17. A method of preventing an increase in the body mass index of a
         normal, pre-obese, obese, or morbidly obese patient, comprising administering
         a pharmaceutical formulation defined by any one of claims 1-6.
                  18. The method of any one of claims 7-17, further comprising co
         administering leptin, a leptin analog, or combinations thereof.
                                                66

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
