ABSTRACT
        Methods and devices are provided for cutting and removing tissue from a body. In
one exemplary embodiment, a surgical device is provided having a suction shaft and a
cutting assembly. The suction shaft can have an inner passageway configured to receive
tissue. The cutting assembly can include an outer shaft having at least one opening formed
in a sidewall thereof configured to receive tissue. The cutting assembly can be configured
to mate with the suction shaft, and it can include a cutting element configured to move
relative to the opening to cut tissue disposed through the opening. Suction can be applied
to cause the cut tissue to flow proximally through the suction shaft and away from the
cutting assembly.

      1/9
   FIG. 1
          100
              12
          200
22

                                                1
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR CUTTING AND REMOVING TISSUE FROM A
BODY
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present invention relates generally to methods and devices for cutting
and removing tissue from a body, and in particular, to arthroscopic shavers and methods of
using the same.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          Arthroscopy is a minimally invasive surgical technique for removing
diseased or damaged tissue from intra-articular regions of the body, such as the shoulder,
hip, wrist, knee, and spine. Arthroscopic shavers can be used to remove bone, cartilage,
and other soft tissue from a patient's joint with less surgical trauma to the joint than
conventional surgical techniques. Typically, an arthroscopic shaver is an electro
mechanical device that includes a hand piece and an elongate shaft that houses a cutting
assembly. The cutting assembly can be positioned at a distal portion of the elongate shaft
and can include a rotatable and/or translatable cutting element for cutting tissue.
Typically, the cutting element is cannulated so that fluid and tissue can pass through it. In
some cases, the hand piece is releasably mated to the elongate shaft so that the cutting
assembly can be disposed of after each use and the hand piece can be reused. During an
arthroscopic procedure, the distal end of the shaft is inserted into a small incision formed in
a patient. Suction is applied to the shaver to cause bodily tissue and associated fluids to
flow through the cutting assembly and out through a proximal end of the hand piece where
the tissue and fluids can be collected in a waste collection container.
[0003]          In view of the benefits of minimally invasive procedures, it would be
desirable to reduce the size profile of shavers to allow arthroscopic shavers to be inserted
into the body through smaller access portals. However, cutting elements of current shavers
are usually cannulated to allow fluid and excised tissue to pass through, and this limits the
effectiveness of such shavers when the size is reduced. More specifically, as the diameter
of the cutting element and the elongate shaft are reduced, the components become less stiff

                                               2
and cut tissue can become trapped in the cutting assembly. Even a small mass of tissue can
impart a transverse load on the cutting element, which can cause tissue to travel in-between
the moving and stationary components and/or cause the cutting surfaces to prematurely
wear. This can result in binding and/or ineffective cutting.
[0004]          The configurations of current devices restrict the ability to reduce the size
profile of these shavers in other ways. For example, in devices where the cutting assembly
extends proximally through the device, tissue and cut fluid also flows proximally through
the cutting assembly such that the space for tissue/fluid to be suctioned out is limited by
the diameter of the outer shaft and the diameter of the cutting assembly. At the same time,
it is important that the pathway for tissue and fluid flow be large enough to enable efficient
removal of bodily matter and/or to enhance visualization of the surgical site.
[0005]          Accordingly, there remains a need for improved methods and devices for
cutting and removing tissue from a body.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]          Various surgical devices are provided herein. In one embodiment, a
surgical device is provided that includes a suction shaft and a cutting assembly. The
suction shaft can have an inner passageway extending therethrough between proximal
and distal ends thereof, and the suction shaft can be configured to couple to a vacuum
source to apply suction through the inner passageway. The cutting assembly can include
an outer shaft and an inner shaft. More specifically, the outer shaft can have an inner
passageway extending therethrough between proximal and distal ends of the outer shaft,
and the outer shaft can have a window formed through a sidewall adjacent to the distal end.
The inner shaft can have a cutting element at a distal end, and the inner shaft can be
slidably disposed within the outer shaft such that the cutting element is movable relative to
the window. This can allow tissue extending through the window and into the inner
passageway to be cut by the cutting element. The distal end of the outer shaft can be
configured to mate with the distal end of the suction shaft such that, when suction is
applied through the passageway in the suction shaft, tissue cut by the cutting element is

                                                 3
suctioned out of the distal end of the outer shaft and into the distal end of the suction shaft
and can flow in a proximal direction through the inner passageway of the suction shaft.
[0007]          The device can vary in any number of ways. For example, the inner shaft
can be non-cannulated. The cutting element can be formed on a distal-facing surface of the
inner shaft. The device can also include a suction mechanism configured to apply a
suction force within the inner passageway of the suction shaft to cause the tissue cut by the
cutting element within the inner passageway to flow in the proximal direction through the
inner passageway. The window on the outer shaft can also include a cutting feature
formed thereon. More specifically, the cutting feature can be formed on a distal edge of
the window such that the cutting element faces the cutting feature when the cutting element
moves within the outer shaft. For another example, an outer diameter of the outer shaft can
be less than about 2 mm, and an outer diameter of the suction shaft can be less than about 2
mm. The suction assembly can be mated to the cutting assembly in various ways. For
example, the distal end of the outer shaft can be receivable within the distal end of the
suction shaft for mating the suction shaft and the outer shaft.
[0008]          The surgical device can be configured to cut tissue in a variety of ways. For
example, in one embodiment the cutting element can be configured to move longitudinally
within the inner passageway along a longitudinal axis of the outer shaft to cut tissue
extending through the window and into the inner passageway. In another embodiment, the
cutting element can be configured to rotate within the inner passageway about a
longitudinal axis of the outer shaft to cut tissue extending through the window and into the
inner passageway.
[0009]          In another aspect, a surgical method is provided. In one embodiment, the
method can include advancing a cutting assembly into a body of a patient, advancing a
suction shaft into a body of the patient, mating a distal end of the cutting assembly with a
distal end of the suction shaft, applying a suction force through an inner passageway of the
suction shaft to suction tissue through a window in the cutting assembly, and actuating the
cutting assembly to cut the tissue suctioned through the window. The cut tissue is
suctioned out of the distal end of the cutting assembly and through the inner passageway in

                                                4
the suction shaft such that the cut tissue flows proximally through the inner passageway of
the suction shaft.
[0010]         The surgical method can include a variety of modifications. For example,
the suction shaft can be advanced through a first access opening in the patient, and the
cutting assembly can be advanced through a second access opening in the patient. In one
embodiment, the first access opening can be on a first side of a joint of the patient, and the
second access opening can be on a second, opposite side of the joint. In another
embodiment, mating a distal end of the cutting assembly with a distal end of the suction
shaft can include inserting the distal end of the cutting assembly into the distal end of the
suction shaft.
[0011]         The cutting element can move in any number of ways. For example, in one
embodiment actuating the cutting assembly can move the cutting element along a
longitudinal axis of the inner shaft of the cutting assembly to cut tissue extending through
the window in the cutting assembly. In another embodiment, actuating the cutting
assembly can rotate the cutting element about a longitudinal axis of the inner shaft of the
cutting assembly to cut the tissue extending through the window in the cutting assembly.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]         The invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0013]         FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a device that includes a cutting assembly and
a suctioning assembly, according to one exemplary embodiment;
[0014]         FIG. 2 is a perspective view of the cutting assembly of FIG. 1, showing a
window formed in an outer shaft and an inner shaft positioned within the outer shaft;
[0015]         FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional, partial view of a distal end of the cutting
assembly of FIGS. 1 and 2;

                                                5
[0016]         FIG. 4 is a side view of a distal end of the inner shaft of FIG. 2 having a
cutting element formed thereon;
[0017]         FIG. 5 is a side view of another embodiment of a cutting element;
[0018]         FIG. 6 is a side view of yet another embodiment of a cutting element;
[0001] FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the suctioning assembly of FIG. 1;
[0019]         FIG. 8 is a perspective view of another embodiment of a suctioning
assembly, including a suction shaft and a control unit configured to apply suction to the
shaft;
[0020]         FIG. 9 is a perspective, partial view of another embodiment of a suctioning
assembly that includes a suction shaft and a hand piece;
[0021]         FIG. 10 is a perspective, partial view of another embodiment of a suctioning
assembly that is configured to divert tissue and fluid away from a hand piece;
[0022]         FIG. 11 A is a perspective, partial view of a distal end of the suction shaft
positioned near a distal end of the outer shaft;
[0023]         FIG. 11 B is a perspective, partial view of the distal ends of the shafts of
FIG. 11 A mated together;
[0024]         FIG. 1 IC is a cross-sectional, partial view of the shafts of FIG. 11 B
showing the inner shaft disposed in the outer shaft of the cutting assembly;
[0025]         FIG. 12A is a perspective view of a suction shaft, an outer shaft, and a scope
inserted through three access portals and positioned near a target tissue;
[0026]         FIG. 12B is a perspective view of the shafts shown in FIG. 12A mated
together and activated to suction the target tissue into the device;

                                                6
[0027]           FIG. 13A is a side cross-sectional view of the suction shaft and outer shaft
mated together with tissue extending through the window formed in the outer shaft;
[0028]           FIG. 13B is a side cross-sectional view of the device of FIG. 13A showing
the cutting element being advanced to cut tissue disposed through the window;
[0029]           FIG. 13C is a side cross-sectional view of the shaver of FIGS. 13A and 13B
with the cutting element retracted and cut tissue flowing through the suction shaft, toward
a proximal end of the suction shaft; and
[0030]           FIG. 14 is a perspective view of another embodiment of a device having
suctioning and cutting assemblies integrated into a single hand piece.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0031]           Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the
present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in
connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the
scope of the present invention.
[0032]           Various methods and devices are provided for cutting and removing tissue
from a body. In general, a surgical device is provided that can remove tissue from within a
patient's body and/or reshape the patient's anatomy. In an exemplary embodiment, a
device is provided having a cutting assembly configured to cut tissue and a suctioning
assembly configured to remove the cut tissue from a surgical site. The suction assembly
and the cutting assembly can be separate, at least at the distal end portion, to allow tissue
cut by the cutting assembly to be suctioned and removed by the suction assembly, rather
than being removed from the patient through the cutting assembly. For example, in one

                                                7
exemplary embodiment a distal end of the cutting assembly can be configured to couple to
a distal end of the suction assembly. The cutting assembly can be activated to cut tissue,
and suction can be applied to draw the cut tissue proximally though the suction assembly.
Because tissue cut by the cutting element can be removed through the suction assembly,
the cutting assembly can have a reduced diameter. In particular, positioning the cutting
element opposite to a direction of the flow of cut tissue, diameters of the suction assembly
and the cutting assembly can be relatively small (e.g., less than about 2mm in diameter)
and appropriate for use in arthroscopic surgery, without compromising the effectiveness of
cutting and suctioning of tissue. The suction assembly and the cutting assembly can also
be separately introduced into a patient and/or inserted through different access portals, thus
allowing the device to more optimally approach a surgical site, such as a joint. The use of
two shafts can also facilitate cleaning of the device such that one or both of the shafts can
be reused for the same patient or for a different patient. While in an exemplary
embodiment the device can be used to cut and suction soft tissue, e.g. cartilage, the device
can additionally or alternatively be configured to cut and suction hard tissue, e.g. bone, as
discussed further below. The device can also be configured to suction fluid, which can
improve a user's visualization of the surgical site.
[0033]          FIG. 1 illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a device having a
suctioning assembly 100 and a cutting assembly 200. In general, the suctioning assembly
100 can include a suction shaft 10 and a hand piece 12, and the cutting assembly 200 can
include an outer shaft 20 and a hand piece 22. As will be discussed in greater detail below,
the cutting assembly 100 can house a cutting element (not shown) configured to cut tissue,
while the suction assembly 200 can be configured to suction cut tissue through the suction
shaft 10 and away from the cutting assembly 100. The components of the cutting assembly
200 will be discussed first, followed by a description of the components of the suctioning
assembly 100.
[0034]          As mentioned above, the cutting assembly 200 can include the hand piece
22. The proximal end 20p of the outer shaft 20 can be coupled to a hand piece 22, which
can house a motor and an actuator 26, e.g., a button, switch, lever, etc. Engagement of the
actuator 26 can cause an inner shaft 31 to move within the inner passageway 24 of the
outer shaft 20, as will be discussed below. In one embodiment, a single actuator can be

                                                 8
used to effect rotation and translation of the cutting element. In other embodiments, the
rotation and translation can be separately controlled using two or more actuators.
[0035]           The outer shaft 20 of the cutting assembly 200 can have various sizes,
shapes, and configurations. As shown in FIG. 2, the outer shaft 20 can have a proximal
end 20p, a distal end 20d, and an inner passageway 24 extending therethrough between
proximal and distal ends. The outer shaft 20 can have a cylindrical shape, and thus, the
outer shaft can have a substantially circular cross-sectional shape. A cross-section of the
outer shaft 20 can be shaped in other ways. For example, a cross-sectional shape of the
outer shaft 20 can be ovular, polygonal, rectangular, etc., and this can facilitate mating and
cutting. The outer shaft can have any longitudinal length. For example, the outer shaft 20
can have a length such that when a distal end 22d of the outer shaft 20 is inserted in a
patient, the proximal end 20p of the shaft can be positioned external to a patient's body to
facilitate manipulation of the shaft 20. In an exemplary embodiment, the outer shaft has a
length L0 in a range of about 50 to 200 mm. The outer shaft 20 can be formed from one or
more materials, such as plastic, polymer, and metal. In one embodiment, the outer shaft 20
can be substantially flexible along its entire length. In another embodiment, a first portion
of the outer shaft 20 can be flexible while a second portion can be substantially rigid, such
as to facilitate mating of the outer shaft 20 with the suction shaft 10 (not shown). In other
embodiments, the outer shaft can be rigid along its entire length. The outer shaft 20 can
have a substantially constant diameter, as in the illustrated embodiment. In another
embodiment, a diameter of an outer shaft can decrease distally such that a distal portion of
the outer shat has a diameter less than a diameter of a proximal portion of the outer shaft.
This can be desirable, for example, when an inner shaft moves within relative to the outer
shaft, as discussed further below, because the distal tapering of the outer shaft can inhibit
translation of the inner shaft relative to the outer shaft and prevent a cutting element of the
inner shaft from exiting the outer shaft, thereby helping to keep the cutting element
adjacent a window formed through the outer shaft.
[0036]           As shown in FIGS. 1-3, the outer shaft 20 can have at least one window,
cut-out, or opening, 28, generally referred to herein as a "window," formed in a sidewall
thereof. The window 28 can be configured to receive tissue therethrough to allow the
tissue to pass into the inner passageway 24 of the outer shaft 20. In particular, the window

                                                 9
28 can extend through a wall of the outer shaft 20, and thus, can be in communication with
the inner passageway 24 such that tissue can be received in the window 28 and can be
drawn into the inner passageway 24. In the illustrated embodiment, the window 28 can
have a substantially rectangular shape, with a height Hi extending in a proximal-distal
direction that is greater than a width extending radially around the outer shaft 20. A person
skilled in the art will appreciate that the window 28 can have other shapes, such as circular,
ovular, square, trapezoidal, etc. In the illustrated embodiment, a cutting feature 32 can be
formed on a distal end 28d of the window 28 that can have a sharpened or pointed edge
configured to pierce tissue, also referred to as a "stationary cutting element." The
stationary cutting element 32 can include an angled edge that extends between outer and
inner surfaces of the outer shaft 20 and is angled from an outer surface of the shaft 20
toward the distal end 20d of the shaft, on inner surface of the shaft 20 to form a sharp
cutting edge. In this embodiment, the stationary cutting element 32 can be opposed to the
movable cutting element 30, as discussed further below. A distal end 28d of the window
28 can have a substantially blunt edge that is oriented radially along the outer shaft 20. In
general, the window 28 can be positioned at various locations along the outer shaft 20. For
example, the window 28 can be located proximal to the distal end 20d of the shaft 20, at a
distance Li from the distal end 20d of the shaft 20. By way of non-limiting example, the
distance L1 can be in a range of about 5 to 25 mm, e.g., about 5 to 10 mm. This can help
ensure that the outer shaft 20 can mate to the suction shaft 10 without blocking the window
28, and thus, can provide space for various mating features for joining the shafts.
[0037]          In another embodiment, a plurality of windows can be formed at various
locations on the outer shaft. For example, the windows can be spaced along the proximal
distal length of the shaft, and/or the windows can be spaced radially about the shaft. Any
number of windows can be positioned at various locations on the outer shaft.
[0038]          The cutting assembly can include various components for cutting tissue.
For example, FIG. 2 shows one embodiment of a cutting assembly 200 that includes the
inner shaft 31 disposed within an outer shaft 20. The inner shaft 31 can be slidably and/or
rotatably disposed within the outer shaft 20, as will be discussed below. The inner shaft 31
can have various sizes, shapes, and configurations. As shown in FIGS. 2-3, the inner shaft
31 can be non-cannulated or solid and can have a generally cylindrical shape that is sized

                                                10
to fit within the inner passageway 24 of the outer shaft 20. A diameter Di of the inner shaft
31 can be complementary to a diameter D 2 of the outer shaft 20 to allow the inner shaft 31
to move relative to the outer shaft 20. More specifically, the diameter Di of the inner shaft
31 can be small enough to permit the inner shaft 31 to be rotated and/or translated within
the outer shaft 20 without producing undue frictional forces. At the same time, the
diameter Di of the inner shaft 31 can be large enough to prevent tissue and/or fluid from
passing between an outer surface of the inner shaft 31 and an inner wall of the outer shaft
20, which could cause clogging and/or inhibit movement of the inner shaft 31 and thereby
inhibit efficient removal of tissue from a body. By being non-cannulated or solid, the inner
shaft 31 can exhibit relatively great stiffness even when having a relatively small diameter.
In general, the diameter Di of the inner shaft 31 can be in a range of about 85 to 99 percent,
e.g., about 95 to 99 percent, of the inner diameter D 2 of the outer shaft 20.
[0039]          Although the inner shaft 31 can have a shape corresponding to a shape of
the outer shaft 20, e.g., each having generally cylindrical shapes with generally circular
cross-sections, as mentioned above, the inner shaft 31 can have a shape differing from the
shape of the outer shaft 20. In one embodiment, an inner shaft can have a cross-sectional
shape, e.g., a non-circular cross-sectional shape, at least in a distal portion of the inner
shaft that differs from a cross-sectional shape, e.g., generally circular, of an outer shaft in
which the inner shaft is configured to be mated by being disposed therein. In this way, the
mating of the inner shaft with an interior of the outer shaft, e.g., an inner lumen of the outer
shaft, can limit motion of the inner shaft to longitudinal translation such that rotation of the
inner shaft within the outer shaft is limited or prevented, which can help ensure that a
cutting element of the inner shaft aligns with a cutting edge of the outer shaft. The non
circular cross-sectional shape of the inner shaft can be a polygon, e.g., a rectangle, a
hexagon, etc., or can be an irregular shape. An inner shaft having a non-circular cross
sectional shape can be keyed to an outer shaft, which can help facilitate longitudinal
translation of the inner shaft within the outer shaft, thereby helping to ensure that a cutting
element of the inner shaft aligns with a cutting edge of the outer shaft. The inner and outer
shafts can be keyed together in a variety of ways, as will be appreciated by a person skilled
in the art, such as by having a groove, e.g., a longitudinal track, formed in one of the inner
and outer shafts and a complementary protrusion, e.g., a longitudinal rail or a protruding
pin, formed on the other of the inner and outer shafts that is configured to slidably mate to

                                                11
the track or groove. In another embodiment, in which an inner shaft is configured to
rotationally translate within an outer shaft, the inner shaft can be configured to have
limited longitudinal translation within the outer shaft so as to help ensure that a cutting
element of the inner shaft aligns with a cutting edge of the outer shaft.
[0040]          Referring again to the embodiment of FIG. 1, the cutting assembly can also
include a cutting element configured to cut tissue by rotating and/or translating relative to
the outer shaft. In one embodiment, the cutting element 30 can be formed on the distal end
31 d of the inner shaft 31. This is shown, for example, in FIGS. 2-3. The cutting element
can vary in a number of ways. As shown in FIG. 4, which is a more detailed view of the
cutting element 30 of FIGS. 2-4, the cutting element 30 can have a plurality of surface
features 33 or serrations configured to cut tissue. In the illustrated embodiment, for
example, the cutting element 30 has a terminal end surface that forms a cutting edge and
that is angled at about 45 degrees relative to a longitudinal axis of the inner shaft 31.
However, the cutting edge can have any angle, and in an exemplary embodiment the angle
can be in a range of about 20 to 60 degrees. In general, steeper angles can produce a more
sharply pointed cutting edge that can more easily pierce tissue. Another exemplary cutting
element 40 is shown in FIG. 5. In this embodiment, the cutting element 40 can be in the
form of a depression formed in a sidewall near the distal end 31 d of the inner shaft 31 with
surface features that can facilitate cutting of tissue. Exemplary features include serrations,
teeth, etc. In another embodiment, the cutting element can be a bone burr 50 mated to the
distal end 31d of the inner shaft 31, as shown in FIG. 6. The bone burr 50 can have a
generally spherical surface with a plurality of ridges, flutes, or threads extending
therearound. The bone burr 50 can be formed from a substantially rigid material
configured to cut bone.
[0041]          As shown in FIGS. 1 and 7, in one embodiment the suction assembly 100
can include the hand piece 12 and the suction shaft 10. The hand piece 12 of the suction
assembly can allow a user to grasp the device and to control suction applied to the suction
shaft 10. Similar to the hand piece 22 of the cutting assembly, the hand piece 12 can have
one or more actuators that can be depressed or otherwise engaged to activate a vacuum
source (not shown) disposed in or coupled to the hand piece 12 for applying suction
through the suction shaft 10.

                                               12
[0042]          The suction shaft 10 of the suction assembly 100 can have various sizes,
shapes, and configurations. Similar to the outer shaft 20, the suction shaft 10 can have a
proximal end   lOp, a distal end 1Od, and an inner passageway 14 extending therebetween.
In one embodiment, the suction shaft 10 can have a cylindrical shape, and thus, the suction
shaft 10 can have a substantially circular cross-section. A cross-section of the suction shaft
10 can be shaped in other ways. For example, a cross-section of the suction shaft can be
ovular, polygonal, rectangular, etc. The suction shaft 10 can have any longitudinal length.
For example, the suction shaft 10 can have a length such that when a distal end of the
device 100 is inserted in a patient, the proximal end lOp of the suction shaft 10 can be
positioned external to a patient's body to facilitate manipulation of the suction shaft 10 and
to allow the proximal end lOp of the shaft to be coupled to a vacuum source. In an
exemplary embodiment, the suction shaft has a length L, in a range of about 50 to 200 mm.
The suction shaft 10 can be formed from one or more materials, such as plastic, polymer,
and metal. In one embodiment, the suction shaft 10 can be substantially flexible along its
entire length. In another embodiment, a portion of the suction shaft 10 can be flexible
while the remaining portion can be substantially rigid. For example, a distal portion of the
suction shaft 10 can be substantially rigid to facilitate mating with the outer shaft 20 of the
cutting assembly 200. In other embodiments, the suction shaft 10 can be rigid along its
entire length.
[0043]          FIG. 8 illustrates another embodiment of a suction assembly 300 that
includes the suction shaft 10 and a control unit 60. As shown, the control unit 60 can have
at least one actuator 62, such as a button, switch, etc., disposed thereon for controlling
suctioning applied to the suction shaft 10. In this embodiment, the proximal end lOp the
suction shaft 10 can be removably and replaceably mated to a tube 64 that extends from the
control unit 60, such as to allow the suction shaft 10 to be reconditioned and reused after a
surgical procedure. In general, an inner diameter of the tube (not shown) can be at least as
large as the inner diameter D5 of the suction shaft 10 to allow cut tissue and fluid to pass
therethrough without clogging the suctioning assembly 300. The control unit 60 can be
mated to the suction shaft 10 using various techniques known in the art, such as by a slip
fit. The suctioned tissue and/or fluid can be collected in various ways, such as in a waste
collection container (not shown) disposed in or coupled to the control unit 60. In addition,
the waste collection container could be removed from the control unit 60 to allow the

                                                13
device 300 to be reused over multiple procedures. This can eliminate the need for built-in
fluid management systems, and thus can allow the device 300 to be used in a variety of
settings, such as in a physician's office. Because the suction shaft 10 can be connected to
the control unit 60 using a length of the tube 64, the control unit 60 can be disposed at a
distance away from a surgical site, such as on a nearby surgical table.
[0044]          FIG. 9 illustrates another embodiment of a suctioning assembly 400. As
shown, the suctioning assembly 400 generally includes a hand piece 70 and a suction shaft
10. The hand piece 70 can be configured to be grasped by a user and it can include various
components for controlling suctioning applied through the suction shaft 10. The hand
piece 70 can include an actuator 72, e.g. a rotatable lever, for engaging a valve that
controls suction applied to the shaft 10. A tube 74 can extend from a proximal end 70p of
the hand piece 70 for receiving cut tissue and fluid, and the tube 74 can be in fluid
communication with a waste collection container (not shown) and/or a fluid management
system known in the art. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that hand piece can
have a variety of configurations, and various hand piece assemblies known in the art can be
used.
[0045]          FIG. 10 illustrates another embodiment of a suction assembly 500. In this
embodiment, instead of coupling a proximal end of a hand piece to a vacuum source, an
opening 86 can be formed distal to the hand piece 80. In particular, the opening 86 can be
formed in the suction shaft 10 and tube 84 can extend therefrom that can be connected to a
suction source 88 such that when the suction source 88 is activated using an actuator 82,
tissue and fluid can flow through the tube 84 and into a waste collection container (not
shown). This can prevent fluid and tissue from entering the hand piece 80, which can
reduce the risk that fluid and tissue remains trapped inside of the hand piece 80 even after
cleaning and/or sterilization procedures are performed. Exemplary embodiments are
shown, for example, in U.S. App. No. 13/223,821 filed on September 1, 2011 and entitled
"Tissue Shavers," which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0046]          A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the various suction assemblies
discussed herein can have a variety of configurations, and can include or can be coupled to
various processing and/or collection devices. For example, the cut tissue can be delivered

                                                 14
to a scaffold for implantation. Moreover, the suction assemblies can include any number
of features, such as a partially or fully rigid and/or flexible shaft.
[0047]          As mentioned above, the suctioning assembly 100 and the cutting assembly
200 can be mated together either prior to or following advancing of the shafts 10, 20 into a
surgical site. FIG. 11 A shows the shafts 10, 20 positioned in proximity, prior to mating,
while FIGS. 11B- 11C show the shafts 10, 20 mated together. The suction shaft 10 and the
outer shaft 20 can be mated using various techniques known in the art. This can include,
for example, using magnets, using mechanical mating features such as twist-lock, morse
taper, or remote quick-connect, or using other mating techniques known in the art.
Additionally or alternatively, the suctioning force applied to the suction shaft 10 can help
maintain the shafts 10, 20 in the mated configuration. In the illustrated embodiment, the
suction shaft 10 and the outer shaft 20 can be mated using a slip-fit in which the outer shaft
20 of the cutting assembly 200 is inserted into the distal end 22 of the suction shaft 10.
Ends of the shafts 10, 20 can overlap, as shown in FIG. 1 IC. In embodiments where the
outer shaft 20 has a diameter D2 that is larger than the diameter D5 of the suction shaft 10,
for example, an inner surface of the outer shaft 20 can be positioned to extend over an
outer surface of the suction shaft 10. In this embodiment, friction between an outer surface
of the outer shaft 20 and an inner surface of the suction shaft 10 can also help maintain the
first and second shafts 10, 20 in the mated configuration.
[0048]          The relative diameters of the suction shaft 10 and the outer shaft 20 can vary
depending in part on the particular technique used to mate the shafts 10, 20. As shown in
FIG. 1 IC, for example, the inner passageway 14 of the suction shaft 10 can have a
diameter D5 and the inner passageway 24 of the outer shaft 20 can have a diameter D 2 , with
the diameter D5 of the suction shaft 10 being larger than the diameter D 2 of the outer shaft
20. This can allow the outer shaft 20 to be received in the inner passageway 14 of the
suction shaft 10, as shown. This configuration can also provide additional space for cut
tissue to flow from the outer shaft 20 to the suction shaft 10, which can prevent clogging.
In another embodiment, the diameter D5 of the suction shaft 10 can be equal to the
diameter D 2 of the outer shaft 20 such that the distal end lOp of the suction shaft 10 can
abut the distal end 20p of the outer shaft 20 when the shafts 10, 20 are in the mated
configuration. In another embodiment, the diameter D5 of the suction shaft 10 can be less

                                               15
than or equal to the diameter D2 of the outer shaft 20. For example, the diameter D5 of the
suction shaft 10 can gradually increase along the proximal-distal length of the shaft 10.
This can result in a diameter at a proximal end of the shaft 10 being larger than the
diameter at the distal end 22 of the shaft 10, which can prevent tissue from occluding or
obstructing the inner passageway 14 of the suction shaft 10. Each of the shafts 10, 20 can
have thin sidewalls in order to maximize the inner passageways 14, 24 and minimize the
outer diameter of the shafts 10, 20.
[0049]         The devices described herein can be used in a variety of surgical procedures
for removing tissue and/or reshaping a patient's anatomy, such as knee and shoulder
arthroscopy. Although the procedures are described herein with reference to the cutting
assembly of FIGS. 1-3 and the suctioning assembly of FIG. 7, other devices can be used to
perform the procedure. Additionally, although soft tissue is shown being cut and
suctioned, fluid and/or hard tissue, e.g. bone, can additionally or alternatively be cut and
suctioned. In an exemplary embodiment, the surgical procedure can be minimally invasive
procedure. However, the devices can be used in an open surgical procedure and in a
robotic surgical procedure.
[0050]         The surgical procedure can include preparing the patient for surgery using
standard techniques. One or more incisions can be formed at various locations in a patient.
For example, the incisions can be formed using a cutting tool. Alternatively, the incisions
can be formed by piercing skin of the patient with the distal end of the cutting assembly,
then advancing the cutting assembly through a surgical site and out of the opposite skin
surface of a patient to form two opposed incisions. In a minimally invasive procedure, one
or more access devices (not shown), e.g., a cannula, a trocar, etc., can be advanced through
an incision formed in the patient and can be positioned near a surgical site. In another
embodiment, one or more of the shafts 10, 20 can be inserted directly into an incision. The
opening, incision, or access device is also referred to herein as an "access portal." The
access portals can be positioned in various ways relative to a surgical site, e.g., a joint.
More specifically, when a device is utilized to perform knee arthroscopy, such as to
debride a slightly frayed meniscus, the portals could be located anterolateral, anteromedial,
and posterolateral. In one embodiment, the access portals can positioned such that a
longitudinal axis of the suction shaft 10 can be substantially aligned with a longitudinal

                                                16
axis of the outer shaft 20. This can facilitate mating of the distal ends 10d, 20d of the
shafts 10, 20 when the shafts 10, 20 are positioned in a surgical site, as will be discussed
below. The access portal can have a diameter sized to receive the shafts 10, 20 therein, and
in some embodiments, an inner diameter of the access portal can be less than or equal to 2
mm.
[0051]           The outer shaft 20 of the cutting assembly 200 and the suction shaft 10 of
the suction assembly 100 can be inserted into the body through one or more of the access
portals, and the shafts 10, 20 can be moved distally to approach a surgical site. FIG. 12A
illustrates exemplary components positioned in a joint J, near a target tissue T. As shown
in FIG. 12A, when the shafts 10, 20 are positioned in a body, a longitudinal axis of the
suction shaft 10 can be substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the cutting element
30 and, in some embodiments, can be coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the cutting
element 30. A scoping device 90, such as an endoscope, can be positioned near the shafts
10, 20, and the scoping device 90 can be configured to acquire images of the surgical site
to facilitate visualization of the site. The suction shaft 10, the outer shaft 20, and the
scoping device 90 can surround the tissue T in various configurations. In the illustrated
embodiment, the shafts 10, 20 are angularly offset from the scoping device 90 by about
120 degrees. However, the components can be positioned in any configuration relative to
the tissue T provided that the shafts 10, 20 can be mated together. By way of non-limiting
example, the surgical site can also be visualized using fluoroscopy, X-ray, or other
visualization techniques known in the art.
[0052]           With the first and second shafts 10, 20 positioned in the surgical site, the
distal end 1Od of the suction shaft 10 can be mated with the distal end 20d of the outer
shaft 20, as shown in FIG. 12B. The scoping device 90 can be used, for example, to
confirm that the distal ends 10d, 20d of the shafts 10, 20 are properly mated together.
Depending on the type of connection utilized to join the shafts 10, 20, manual or tactile
feel can additionally or alternatively be used to confirm that the shafts 10, 20 are mated. If
desired, after the shafts 10, 20 are joined, they can be moved as a unit until the window 28
is positioned in proximity to a targeted tissue. The positioning of the shafts 10, 20 relative
to the window 28 can be monitored using the scoping device.

                                                 17
[0053]           In another embodiment, the shafts 10, 20 can be mated outside of the body,
and introduced into a surgical site, e.g. a joint, in the mated configuration. For example,
the shafts 10, 20 can be substantially flexible and slightly curved along their length such
that the distal ends 10d, 20d can be mated and introduced into a single access portal
without kinking or otherwise inhibiting cutting and suctioning of tissue.
[0054]           FIGS. 13A-13C depict the suctioning and cutting assemblies 100, 200 of
FIG. 1 engaged to cut tissue. In particular, the inner shaft 31 is shown being advanced and
retracted to position the cutting element 30 on the distal end 31 d thereof in a desired
location relative to the window 28. For example, FIG. 13A illustrates the tissue T being
suctioned through the window 28 and extending into the suction shaft 10. A suction force
S can be applied to the proximal end    lOp  of the suction shaft 10, as indicated by the thin
arrow, such that the suction force S can draw the tissue T through the window 28 and
toward the proximal end lOp of the suction shaft 10. The cutting element 30 can be
initially positioned proximal to the window 28 formed in the outer shaft 20, also referred to
herein as the "retracted position." In the retracted position, the inner shaft 31 and the
cutting element 30 can be positioned to allow the tissue T to pass through the window 28
without being partially or entirely obstructed by the cutting element 30.
[0055]           The inner shaft 31 can move from the retracted position to an "extended
position," as shown in FIG. 13B. An advancing force A can be applied to the inner shaft to
move the cutting element 30 toward the distal end 20d of the outer shaft 20, as indicated by
the arrow, such that the cutting element advances distally past the window 28 to cut the
tissue T disposed in the window 28. A suctioning force S can be applied to the suction
shaft 10, as shown, to cause a first piece of cut tissue T 1 to move distally out of the outer
shaft 20, and to be drawn proximally into the distal end 1Od of the suction shaft 10. The
tissue T will continue to move toward the proximal end lOp of the suction shaft 10. A
retraction force R can be applied to the inner shaft 31, which can move the cutting element
30 from the extended position to the retracted position to provide adequate space for the
tissue to flow through the window 28. A second piece of cut tissue T2 can be drawn in the
window 28, and the procedure can be repeated to cut additional tissue.

                                               18
 [0056]         The devices describes herein can vary in other ways. For example, FIG. 14
illustrates an embodiment of a device 600 that has a suction shaft 10 and an outer shaft 20
joined to a single hand piece 92. As shown, the proximal end 10p of the suction shaft 10
can be coupled to the distal end 92d of the hand piece 92, and the proximal end 20p of the
outer shaft 20 can also be coupled to the distal end 92d of the hand piece 92. Because the
shafts 10, 20 are separable, the ends can be joined after each of the shafts 10, 20 are
inserted into a body through the same or separate access portals. As in the previous
embodiments, the hand piece 92 can house various components for applying suction to the
device and/or moving the cutting element 30 relative to the outer shaft 20, and can include
a plurality of actuators 94, 96. For example, a first actuator 94 can cause the cutting
element 30 to move relative to the shaft 20, and a second actuator 96 can cause suction to
be applied to the suction shaft 10. The hand piece 92 can include a steering assembly, such
as cables, coupled to the shafts 10, 20 to allow a user to manipulate the distal ends 10d,
20d of the shafts 10, 20 when the device is positioned in a surgical site.
 [0057]         The devices disclosed herein can be designed to be disposed of after a single
use, or they can be designed to be used multiple times. In either case, however, the device
can be reconditioned for reuse after at least one use. Reconditioning can include any
combination of the steps of disassembly of the device, followed by cleaning or replacement
of particular pieces, and subsequent reassembly. In particular, the device can be
disassembled, and any number of the particular pieces or parts of the device, e.g., the
cutting assembly, suctioning assembly, hand piece, can be selectively replaced or removed
in any combination. Upon cleaning and/or replacement of particular parts, the device can
be reassembled for subsequent use either at a reconditioning facility, or by a surgical team
immediately prior to a surgical procedure. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that
reconditioning of a device can utilize a variety of techniques for disassembly,
cleaning/replacement, and reassembly. Use of such techniques, and the resulting
reconditioned device, are all within the scope of the present application.
 [0058]         Preferably, the invention described herein will be processed before surgery.
First, a new or used instrument is obtained and if necessary cleaned. The instrument can
then be sterilized. In one sterilization technique, the instrument is placed in a closed and
sealed container, such as a plastic or TYVEK bag. The container and instrument are then

                                                 19
placed in a field of radiation that can penetrate the container, such as gamma radiation, x
rays, or high-energy electrons. The radiation kills bacteria on the instrument and in the
container. The sterilized instrument can then be stored in the sterile container. The sealed
container keeps the instrument sterile until it is opened in the medical facility.
[0059]          It is preferred that device is sterilized. This can be done by any number of
ways known to those skilled in the art including beta or gamma radiation, ethylene oxide,
steam, and a liquid bath (e.g., cold soak).
[0060]          One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the
invention based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to
be limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by the
appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
[0061]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0062]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0063]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013205883. The full disclosure of AU 2013205883 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                20
CLAIMS
1.        A surgical device, comprising:
          a suction shaft having an inner passageway extending therethrough between
proximal and distal ends thereof, the suction shaft being configured to couple to a vacuum
source to apply suction through the inner passageway; and
          a cutting assembly comprising
                    an outer shaft having an inner passageway extending therethrough
between proximal and distal ends thereof, the outer shaft having a window formed through
a sidewall thereof adjacent to the distal end, and
                    an inner shaft having a cutting element at a distal end thereof, the inner
shaft being slidably disposed within the outer shaft such that the cutting element is
movable relative to the window to allow tissue extending through the window and into the
inner passageway to be cut by the cutting element; and
          wherein the distal end of the outer shaft is configured to mate with the distal end
of the suction shaft such that, when suction is applied through the passageway in the
suction shaft, tissue cut by the cutting element is suctioned out of the distal end of the outer
shaft and into the distal end of the suction shaft and can flow in a proximal direction
through the inner passageway.
2.        The device of claim 0, wherein the inner shaft is non-cannulated.
3.        The device of claim 0, wherein the cutting element is formed on a distal-facing
surface of the inner shaft.
4.        The device of claim 0, wherein the cutting element is configured to move
longitudinally within the inner passageway along a longitudinal axis of the outer shaft to
cut the tissue extending through the window and into the inner passageway.
5.        The device of claim 0, wherein the cutting element is configured to rotate within
the inner passageway about a longitudinal axis of the outer shaft to cut the tissue extending
through the window and into the inner passageway.

                                               21
6.        The device of claim 0, wherein the window includes a cutting feature formed
thereon.
7.        The device of claim 0, wherein the cutting feature is formed on a distal edge of the
window such that the cutting element faces the cutting feature when the cutting element
moves within the outer shaft.
8.        The device of claim 0, further comprising a suction mechanism configured to
apply a suction force within the inner passageway of the suction shaft to cause the tissue
cut by the cutting element within the inner passageway to flow in the proximal direction
through the inner passageway of the suction shaft.
9.        The device of claim 0, wherein an outer diameter of the outer shaft is less than
about 2 mm.
10.       The device of claim 0, wherein an outer diameter of the suction shaft is less than
about 2 mm.
11.       The device of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the outer shaft is receivable
within the distal end of the suction shaft for mating the outer shaft and the suction shaft.
12.       A surgical method, comprising:
          advancing a cutting assembly into a body of a patient;
          advancing a suction shaft into a body of the patient;
          mating a distal end of the cutting assembly with a distal end of the suction shaft;
          applying a suction force through an inner passageway of the suction shaft to
suction tissue through a window in the cutting assembly; and
          actuating the cutting assembly to cut the tissue suctioned through the window, the
cut tissue being suctioned out of the distal end of the cutting assembly and through the
inner passageway in the suction shaft such that the cut tissue flows proximally through the
inner passageway of the suction shaft.

                                              22
13.       The method of claim 0, wherein actuating the cutting assembly comprises moving
the cutting element along a longitudinal axis of the inner shaft of the cutting assembly to
cut the tissue extending through the window in the cutting assembly.
14.       The method of claim 0, wherein actuating the cutting assembly comprises rotating
the cutting element about a longitudinal axis of the inner shaft of the cutting assembly to
cut the tissue extending through the window in the cutting assembly.
15.       The method of claim 0, wherein the suction shaft is advanced through a first
access opening in the patient, and the cutting assembly is advanced through a second
access opening in the patient.
16.       The method of claim 0, wherein the first access opening is on a first side of a joint
of the patient, and the second access opening is on a second, opposite side of the joint.
17.       The method of claim 0, wherein mating a distal end of the cutting assembly with a
distal end of the suction shaft comprises inserting the distal end of the cutting assembly
into the distal end of the suction shaft.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
