                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             Systems and methods for selectively producing steam from solar collectors
and heaters, for processes including enhanced oil recovery, are disclosed herein. A
system in accordance with a particular embodiment includes a water source, a solar
collector that includes a collector inlet, a collector outlet, and a plurality of solar
concentrators positioned to heat water passing from the collector inlet to the collector
outlet, a fuel-fired heater, a steam outlet connected to an oil field injection well, and a
water flow network coupled among the water source, the solar collector, the heater, and
the steam outlet. The system can further include a controller operatively coupled to the
water flow network and programmed with instructions that, when executed, direct at
least one portion of the flow through the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in a first
sequence, and direct the at least one portion or a different portion of the flow through
the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in a second sequence different than the first
sequence.
                                             -1-

                                            1/17
co                                        0              U0
                        0oU'
                       -    - --    - - -      co   -0
 I      OJo1e[uI                                            I
                         Ir                                   0
      u011091uI
 IC)                                                   L
        I    -
                     I   I
                                  aI
                                 ID
     u011091uI
      I                  lID
                I CN                              O

         SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SELECTIVELY PRODUCING
           STEAM FROM SOLAR COLLECTORS AND HEATERS FOR
              PROCESSES INCLUDING ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        The present application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/749,888, filed January 7, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/829,984, filed
May 31, 2013, Australian Patent No. 2014203921 and Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent
the foregoing applications and/or any other materials incorporated herein by
reference conflict with the present disclosure, the present disclosure controls.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]        The present technology is directed generally to systems and methods
for selectively producing steam from         solar collectors and heaters, including
techniques for increasing the steam production efficiency for enhanced oil recovery
processes by varying the energy contributions from each of the foregoing
components.
BACKGROUND
[0003]        As fossil fuels become more scarce, the energy industry has developed
more sophisticated techniques for extracting fuels that were previously too difficult or
expensive to extract.      One such technique is to inject steam into an oil-bearing
formation to free up and reduce the viscosity of the oil.       Several techniques for
steam injection presently exist, and are often collectively referred to as "Thermal
Enhanced Oil Recovery," or "Thermal EOR."             Representative steam injection
techniques include cyclic, steamflood, steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD), and
other strategies using vertical and/or horizontal injection wells, or a combination of
such wells, along with continuous, variable-rate, and/or intermittent steam injection
in each well.
                                           -1-

[0004]        One representative system for forming steam for steam injection is a
fuel-fired boiler, having a once-through configuration or a recirculating configuration.
Other steam generating systems include heat recovery steam generators, operating
in a continuous mode. Thermal EOR operations often produce steam 24 hours per
day, over a period ranging from many days to many years.            During the period of
continuous steam injection, steam pressures and flow rates may be roughly constant
in some cases, may vary within a predetermined limited range in other cases, or
may vary more widely according to a predetermined plan. However, it is generally
undesirable to shut down and start the steam generating equipment (e.g., on a daily
basis) because such cycles increase equipment maintenance associated with
thermal cycling, and the potential for increased corrosion during idle or standby
periods.
[0005]        Another representative steam generator is a solar steam generator,
which can augment or replace the fuel-fired boilers. Solar steam generators can
reduce fuel use, reduce operations costs, reduce air emissions, and/or increase oil
production in thermal recovery projects.        However, such systems collect energy
intermittently due to day/night patterns of available solar radiation, with energy
production rates varying according to factors which include the variation of incoming
solar radiation. Due to the above-described demand for continuous steam, many or
most thermal recovery projects which incorporate solar steam generators will also
incorporate one or more fuel-fired steam generators, which combust liquid or
gaseous fuels as a supplemental source of heat to form steam from an incoming
liquid water stream. However, such combinations of solar and fuel-fired boilers are
typically inefficient, e.g., because they include many additional components, waste
energy, and/or have excess or redundant capacity. Accordingly, there remains a
need for high-efficiency solar steam generation systems.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]        Figure 1 is a partially schematic illustration of a system that includes a
solar collector, a heater, and a controller configured in accordance with an
embodiment of the presently disclosed technology.
                                            -2-

[0007]       Figure 2A is a partially schematic illustration of the system shown in
Figure 1, configured to operate at night in accordance with an embodiment of the
presently disclosed technology.
[0008]       Figure 2B is a partially schematic illustration of the system shown in
Figure 1, configured to operate under conditions of relatively low incident radiation,
in accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed technology.
[0009]       Figure 2C is a partially schematic illustration of the system shown in
Figure 1, configured to operate under conditions of relatively high incident radiation,
in accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed technology.
[0010]       Figure 2D is a partially schematic illustration of the system shown in
Figure 1, configured to operate under peak incident radiation conditions, in
accordance with an embodiment of the presently disclosed technology.
[0011]       Figure 3 is a partially schematic illustration of a system configured in
accordance with another embodiment of the present technology.
[0012]       Figure 4 is a partially schematic illustration of a system configured in
accordance with still another embodiment of the present technology.
[0013]       Figure 5 is a graph illustrating representative heat contributions from a
solar collector and heater in accordance with several embodiments of the present
technology.
[0014]       Figure 6 is a graph illustrating representative variations in solar radiation
levels over the course of a day.
[0015]       Figure 7A is a partially schematic illustration of a system that includes a
storage medium configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present
technology.
[0016]       Figure 7B is a partially schematic illustration of an oil field serviced by
multiple combinations of solar collectors and heaters in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0017]       Figure 7C is a partially schematic illustration of a system having a
storage medium and separator configured in accordance with another embodiment
of the present technology.
                                             -3-

[00181       Figure 7D is a partially schematic illustration of a system having a
valving arrangement configured in accordance with still another embodiment of the
present technology.
[0019]       Figure 7E is a partially schematic illustration of a system having a
valving arrangement in accordance with yet another embodiment of the present
technology.
[0020]       Figures 8A-8C are partially schematic illustrations of systems having
piping and valve configurations in accordance with still further embodiments of the
present technology.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]       The present technology is directed generally to systems and methods
for selectively producing steam from solar collectors and one or more additional
heaters (e.g., auxiliary, complementary and/or supplementary heaters).         Specific
details of several embodiments of the disclosed technology are described below with
reference to a system configured for oil well steam injection to provide a thorough
understanding of these embodiments, but in other embodiments, representative
systems can be used in other contexts.        Several details describing structures or
processes that are well-known and often associated with steam generation systems,
but that may unnecessarily obscure some significant aspects of the present
technology, are not set forth in the following description for purposes of clarity.
Moreover, although the following disclosure sets forth several embodiments of
different aspects of the presently disclosed technology, several other embodiments
of the technology can have configurations and/or components different than those
described in this section. Accordingly, the presently disclosed technology may have
other embodiments with additional elements, and/or without several of the elements
described below with reference to Figures 1-8C.
[0022]       Many embodiments of the presently disclosed technology described
below may take the form of computer-executable instructions, including routines
executed by a programmable computer.           Those skilled in the relevant art will
appreciate that the technology can be practiced on or by computer systems and/or
controllers other than those shown and described below. The technology can be
                                          -4-

embodied in a special-purpose computer or data processor that is specifically
programmed, configured and/or constructed to perform one or more of these
computer-executable      instructions   described   below.     Accordingly, the     terms
"computer" and "controller" as generally used herein refer to any suitable data
processor and can include internet appliances and hand-held devices (including
palm-top computers, wearable computers, cellular or mobile phones, multi-processor
systems,     processor-based     or   programmable    consumer    electronics,   network
computers, minicomputers and the like).
[0023]        The   present    technology   can   also   be   practiced   in  distributed
environments, where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices
that are linked through a communications network.           In a distributed computing
environment, program modules or subroutines may be located in local and remote
memory storage devices. Aspects of the technology described below may be stored
or distributed on computer-readable media, including magnetic or optically readable
or removable computer disks, as well as distributed electronically over networks. In
particular embodiments, data structures and transmissions of data particular to
aspects of the technology are also encompassed within the scope of the present
technology.
[0024]        Embodiments of the technology described below include systems that
generate steam, techniques for manufacturing, assembling, programming, operating
and/or controlling such systems, and methods for instructing the use, construction,
development,     and/or    other   aspects   of the   system.     Accordingly, various
embodiments of the presently disclosed technology may include taking direct action
(e.g., by a person, machine, controller, software or hardware) and/or instructing (by a
person, machine, controller, software or hardware) tasks to be completed by human
or non-human entities.
[0025]        Figure 1 is a partially schematic illustration of an overall system 100
used to generate steam. The system 100 includes one or more solar collectors 120
operatively coupled to one or more heaters 110 (one is shown in Figure 1 for
purposes of illustration) to deliver steam to a target 130 under the direction of a
controller 140. The heater 110 can supplement the energy provided by the solar
collector 120 so as to provide to the target 130 a relatively constant flow of steam
having a relatively constant quality and/or other characteristics.              In other
                                            -5-

embodiments, the solar collector 120 and the heater 110 can operate together to
produce steam in varying amounts and/or with varying characteristics. In any of
these embodiments,        features of the foregoing      components are deliberately
configured and controlled to increase the overall efficiency and/or reduce the cost of
the system 100 when compared with conventional steam generation systems, as will
be described in further detail below.
[0026]       Embodiments of the system 100 shown in Figure 1 include a water flow
system 150 that provides liquid water to the solar collector 120 and the heater 110,
which in turn generate steam that is provided to the target 130.          In a particular
embodiment, the target 130 includes a manifold 132 coupled to one or more
injection wells 131 used to extract oil in a thermal enhanced oil recovery or thermal
EOR process.       In other embodiments, the target 130 can be any of a number of
suitable systems and/or processes that use steam as an input. When the target 130
is an oilfield, the system 100 can, in particular embodiments, include multiple
combinations of solar collectors 120 and heaters 110, interconnected to a common
stream distribution network and a common set of injection wells 131.
[0027]       The water flow system 150 can include a water source 151 (e.g., a well,
tank, reservoir, and/or combination of the foregoing elements) coupled to a network
of appropriately insulated conduits 157. In general, the conduits are insulated where
thermal losses are otherwise expected to be significant, e.g., downstream of the
solar collector 120 and/or the heater 110. Internal elements of the heater 110 can
also be insulated. At least some elements of the solar collector 120 may not be
insulated, so as not to interfere with the ability of the solar collector 120 to receive
and collect solar radiation, as will be discussed in greater detail later. The water
source 151 delivers liquid water to an inlet device 152 (e.g., a positive displacement
pump, a multi-stage turbo-pump, or another pump, valve, or controllable device) that
in turn provides the water to an inlet conduit 153. The inlet conduit 153 provides
liquid water to both the solar collector 120 and the heater 110. The solar collector
120 collects incident radiation from the sun, while the heater 110 generates heat
from terrestrial fuel sources.
[0028]       In particular embodiments, the heater 110 is an appropriately insulated
gas or other fuel-fired (e.g., fossil fuel-fired) heater that includes one or more
combustion burners 111 (shown schematically as single burner 111 for purposes of
                                           -6-

illustration) and directs heated combustion products over multiple heater portions. In
a representative embodiment, the heater 110 includes a first heater portion 113 and
a second heater portion 114.        The first heater portion 113 can operate as a
preheater and/or economizer, and the second heater portion 114 can operate as an
evaporator, radiant heater, and/or superheater. Accordingly, the burner 111 directs
hot combustion gases along an exhaust gas path first through the second heater
portion 114, then through the first heater portion 113, and then to a burner exhaust
112 (e.g., an exhaust stack). As a result, the second heater portion 114 receives the
highest temperature heater gases, and the first heater portion 113 receives lower
temperature heater gases.       Heated water (e.g. steam) exits the heater 110 at a
heater outlet 116. An exhaust gas recirculation conduit 115 can recirculate exhaust
gas from the burner exhaust 112 back to the burner 111 and/or other heater
elements to improve the efficiency of the heater 110 by recapturing heat that would
otherwise be lost to the environment. A recirculation valve 117 controls whether and
to what degree the exhaust gases are recirculated.         In particular embodiments,
exhaust gas recirculation is used to reduce the oxygen fraction in the combustion
gas and thus slow combustion, lower peak flame temperature, and reduce the
formation of oxides of nitrogen (NOx), and/or gaseous pollutants. In further aspects
of these embodiments, exhaust gas recirculation plays a role in maintaining
adequate gas flow to maintain effective heat transfer to the heat transfer tubes within
the heater 110 (e.g., to maintain high heat transfer turbulent flow), and thus allow the
burner 111 to be more readily turned down. As is discussed in further detail later,
turning the burner 111 down facilitates improving and/or optimizing the heat
contributions provided by the solar collector 120 and the heater 110.
[0029]        The solar collector 120 can include a collector inlet manifold 121
(optional) and a collector outlet manifold 122 (also optional).       The collector inlet
manifold 121 distributes incoming water through collection conduits 157a (and/or
other suitable solar receivers) that receive concentrated solar energy from one or
more corresponding solar concentrators 125.          The concentrators 125 can be
movable so as to track daily and/or seasonal shifts in the sun's relative position. The
solar concentrators 125 can include trough-shaped reflectors in some embodiments,
and point-focus, linear Fresnel, and/or other concentrators in other embodiments.
The collector outlet manifold 122 collects the heated water (e.g., in liquid and/or
                                           -7-

vapor phase) and delivers the heated water to a collector outlet 124. Balance valves
123 can control the manner in which water is distributed throughout the solar
collector 120. In a particular embodiment shown in Figure 1, the solar collector 120
includes a parallel arrangement of conduits 157a. In other embodiments, the solar
collector 120 can include serial conduits and/or a combination of parallel and serial
conduits. In any of these embodiments, the steam directed from the solar collector
120 to the collector outlet 124 can be directed through the heater 110 and/or
combined with the heated water directed from the heater 110 to the heater outlet
116, and then directed to a combined or overall steam outlet 156. From the overall
steam outlet 156, the steam is directed to the target 130.             In any of these
embodiments, the outlet temperature and vapor fraction at the collector outlet 124
will vary widely. At some times of day (e.g., under lower radiation conditions), the
solar collector 120 will be fed low temperature water and deliver preheated water. At
other times, the output of the solar collector 120 will be high-temperature, high
quality steam as is further discussed later with reference to Figures 2A-2D.
[0030]       The water flow system 150, which connects the heater 110 and the solar
collector 120 to the target 130, includes a network of conduits, multiple conduit
junctions 155 and valves 154 that direct the flow of water and steam in accordance
with a number of operational modes. For example, the water flow system 150 can
include a first junction 155a and a corresponding first valve 154a that selectively
direct water to the heater 110 and/or the solar collector 120. A second valve 154b
positioned proximate to a second junction 155b, and a third valve 154c positioned
proximate to a third junction 155c together direct flow exiting the first heater portion
113 to the second heater portion 114 and/or the solar collector 120. A fourth valve
154d positioned between a fourth junction 155d and a fifth junction 155e directs
steam from the collector outlet 124 to the overall steam outlet 156 and/or through
the second heater portion 114.
[0031]       The controller 140 can include a programmable logic controller (PLC), a
distributed  control   system    (DCS),  and/or another     suitable type    of control
arrangement. For example, the controller 140 can constitute a plurality of separate
control elements operating either as peers or in a hierarchical arrangement, e.g.,
interconnected as a SCADA system via fiber optic, wired, or wireless (radio-based)
communication methods.         The controller 140 receives inputs 141 and provides
                                           -8-

outputs 142 to direct the operation of the valves described above, the burner 111,
and/or other system components. The inputs 141 can include signals received from
a variety of sensors 143.     Representative sensors can include a first temperature
sensor 143a positioned to measure the water temperature at the water source 151,
a second temperature sensor 143b positioned to measure the steam temperature at
the collector outlet 124, a third sensor 143c positioned to measure the exhaust gas
temperature at the burner exhaust 112, and/or any of a variety of other sensors, not
shown in Figure 1 for purposes of clarity.       Such sensors can include flow rate
sensors (e.g., to measure steam characteristics), NOx sensors, pH sensors, solar
concentrator positioning sensors, solar radiation sensors, among others.           The
outputs 142 provided by the controller 140 can direct one or more actuators 144. In
addition to actuators associated with each of the valves described above, the
actuators 144 can include a first actuator 144a that controls the burner 111, and one
or more second actuators 144b that control the concentrators 125 of the solar
collector 120 (e.g., the motion of the concentrators 125 throughout the day and/or
from season to season).         These representative actuators 144 are shown for
purposes of illustration, and it will be understood that the controller 140 can control
other actuators of the overall system 100, which are not shown in Figure 1 for
purposes of clarity.
[0032]       The controller 140 can operate in one of more of several manners. For
example, in a feed-forward control arrangement, the controller 140 can receive
inputs corresponding to a measured inlet water temperature and flowrate, a target
outlet steam pressure and vapor fraction (steam quality), and determines the
necessary enthalpy and associated fuel firing rate for the burner 111. In a feed-back
control arrangement, the controller 140 can receive inputs corresponding to a
measured inlet water temperature and flow rate, and an outlet flow rate, and can
determine or approximate the current outlet steam quality based on one of a variety
of measured physical or more properties, e.g., a change in conductivity of the outlet
liquid, a change in velocity of the flow, and/or other properties, and/or a separate
measurement of liquid and vapor components of flow (e.g., via isokinetic sampling).
The controller 140 adjusts the burner firing rate and/or the liquid flow rate
accordingly, e.g., to return the system 100 to a particular outlet steam quality. The
controller 140 can incorporate measured solar radiation and a calculated sun
                                           -9-

position to determine an expected solar energy contribution to outlet enthalpy. By
including measurements of solar radiation, the controller 120 can "anticipate"
changes in the enthalpy at the solar collector 120 and adjust the burner firing rates
more smoothly, adjust process controls more smoothly, and/or maintain tighter
control of delivered steam characteristics.
[0033]        In general, the thermal contribution from the solar collector 120 may be
estimated and/or measured to provide feed-forward information to the burner and/or
water flow rate controls. The thermal contribution from the solar collector 120 may
be measured as inlet and outlet temperatures and pressures, and inlet and outlet
flow-rates.   The outlet flow will at some points in time be all liquid phase, and at
some points in time be a liquid-vapor mixture.         The steam quality at the solar
collector outlet 124 can be calculated and, using the James equation or other well
known equations, may be used to calculate the enthalpy currently being added by
solar energy, which may be combined with other information to generate an
aggregate required enthalpy feed-forward signal to the burner 111.
[0034]        In any of the foregoing and following embodiments, the system 100 can
include temperature        sensors mounted      on  the conduits    157a and/or other
components of the solar collector 120 to estimate the solar energy contribution, e.g.,
in real-time or near real-time. In the lower temperature portion of the solar collector
120 (toward the inlet manifold 121), enthalpy is typically added as sensible heat,
resulting in a rising wall temperature along the flow of liquid. The difference between
temperature measurements taken on the conduits 157a at several points in solar
collector 120 may be used to estimate the current and/or upcoming or projected
solar heating intensity, and thus to estimate the total contribution of solar energy to
the overall required enthalpy. This information, alone and/or combined with other
measurements (e.g., direct measurements of solar radiation) can be used to
estimate the corresponding required burner firing rate.
[0035]        The controller 140 and associated sensors and actuators can include
other features in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing features.       Representative
features include feed-back based on exhaust gas temperatures, provisions for multi
fuel firing and/or handling fuel of varying BTU values at the burner 111, controlling
the flow pattern throughout the system 100 to manage solar collector efficiency and
stack gas temperature, managing/balancing optimal burner efficiency and optimal
                                           -10-

solar collector efficiency, controlling a flow of waste heat from an enclosure
surrounding the solar collector to the burner inlet, and/or dumping heat at the solar
collector 120, e.g., when the energy provided by the solar collector 120 exceeds the
energy required by the target 130. The extent to which heat is dumped can depend
on factors that include the local environmental conditions and/or the size of the solar
collector 120 relative to the demands of the target 130 and the relative capacity of
the heater 110. The foregoing control arrangements can include calculations that
account for and/or make use of system characteristics, including that the coldest
water provided to the solar collector 120 delivers the highest BTU output from the
solar collector, and the lowest exhaust gas temperature delivers highest BTU output
from burner 111.
[0036]        Figures 2A-2D illustrate configurations of the system 100 shown in
Figure 1 in accordance with representative operational modes directed by the
controller 140. In particular embodiments, the operational modes can be correlated
with the time of day during which the system 100 operates. In other embodiments,
the operational modes can be tied to other variables, including seasonal variables,
and in still further embodiments, the system 100 can be configured to operate in
modes other than those expressly shown in Figures 2A-2D and described below. In
general, the controller 140 directs smooth, gradual transitions from one mode to
another, e.g., to reduce or eliminate thermal shock, sudden fluid flow changes,
and/or other potentially undesirable effects.
[0037]        Figure 2A illustrates the system 100 configured in a representative first
operational mode that, in at least some embodiments, corresponds to night-time
operation. In this embodiment, the first valve 154a, the second valve 154b, and the
fourth 154d are closed, and the third valve 154c is open. Accordingly, water travels
from the water source 151 to the steam outlet 156 via the heater 110, and bypasses
the solar collector 120, which is not active at night. In this mode, the water flow
(indicated by arrows F) passes through the first heater portion 113, e.g., for
preheating, then to the second heater portion 114, e.g., for further heating and
phase change to steam, and then to the steam outlet 156 for delivery for to the
target 130. The lack of flow through the solar collector 120 prevents the water in the
conduits from flowing backwards to the solar collector 120 at the third junction 155c.
Because the solar collector 120 is not active during the first operational mode, the
                                           -11-

burner 111 is typically operating at a high rate. The exhaust gas recirculation valve
117 can be opened or closed, depending upon the exhaust gas temperature and/or
other factors. In general, the exhaust gas recirculation conduit 115 can be active
(e.g., with the gas recirculation valve 117 open) when the energy cost for blowing or
pumping the recirculating exhaust is less than the energy loss due to dumping high
temperature exhaust gas to the environment and/or to control (reduce) emissions of
NOx and/or other gases.
[0038]        Figure 2B illustrates the system 100 configured in a second operational
mode, e.g., corresponding to a low incident radiation level at the solar collector 120.
For example, the second operational mode can correspond to early morning, after
sunrise. In this mode, the first valve 154a is partially opened. Accordingly, the flow
of water indicated by arrow F splits at the first junction 155a into a first flow
(indicated by arrow A) that is directed to the first heater portion 113, and a second
flow (indicated by arrow B) that is directed to the solar collector 120. The first flow
passes through the first heater portion 113 to the third junction 155c. The second
flow is directed to the solar collector 120.     At the solar collector 120, the solar
concentrators 125 are positioned to focus the incident solar radiation to heat the
water passing through the conduits 157a. The heated water passes through the
collector outlet 124 and combines with the first flow at the third junction 155c to
produce a combined flow (indicated by arrow C).           The combined flow passes
through the second heater portion 114 and is provided to the steam outlet 156 for
delivery to the target 130. For purposes of illustration, the first valve 154a is shown
partially open and the third valve 154c is shown fully open in Figure 2B.        In other
embodiments, the relative positions of these valves can be reversed, or both valves
can be partially open, depending upon factors that can include, but are not limited to,
the relative pressure drops through the heater 110 and the solar collector 120,
respectively.
[0039]        During the course of the early morning, as solar radiation received at the
solar collector 120 intensifies, more and more flow is directed to the solar collector
120, and less flow is directed to the first heater portion 113, by further opening the
first valve 154a. In addition, as the heat output produced by the solar collector 120
increases (e.g., in the form of sensible heat and/or latent heat), the burner 111 is
turned down to reduce unnecessary fuel consumption. In typical arrangements, the
                                            -12-

burner 111 has different performance characteristics at different operating points,
which is accounted for in determining how far to turn the burner 111 down.             In
general, it is more efficient to turn the burner 111 down than to stop and restart the
burner 111. As the flow of water through the first heater portion 113 is reduced, the
temperature at the burner exhaust 112 may rise, even though the burner 111 is
turned down, due to the reduced amount of exhaust gas heat transferred to the
water in the first heater portion 113. The increased burner exhaust temperature can
reduce the net efficiency of the fuel-fired portion of the system (e.g., the heater 110),
even while the exhaust gas recirculation conduit 115 is active.            To reduce or
eliminate such inefficiencies, the system 100 can move to a third operational mode,
described below with reference to Figure 2C.
[0040]        Referring now to 2C, in the third operational mode, the first valve 154a
and the third valve 154c are closed, and the second valve 154b is opened.
Accordingly, the flow of water indicated by arrows F passes first through the first
heater portion 113, then to the solar collector 120, and then to the second heater
portion 114 before being delivered to the steam outlet 156 and the target 130. In
this embodiment, the solar collector 120 adds a significant amount of heat to the
water, producing low to medium quality steam, and the second heater portion 114
increases the quality of the steam to a level suitable for the target 130. Typical
quality levels at the steam outlet 156 range from about 65% to about 80%, but can
vary outside this range in particular embodiments. Typical pressures can be from
about 400 psi to about 2800 psi, although these values, too, may be different in
other embodiments.       In any of these embodiments, the system 100 can quickly
respond to intermittent changes in the heat output provided by solar collector 120.
For example, if a cloud passes between the solar collector 120 and the sun,
temporarily reducing the heat output of the solar collector 120, the burner 111 can
be quickly turned up to supplement the heat provided by the solar collector 120.
The burner 111 can be quickly turned down again when the cloud cover has passed.
If the sun remains behind a cloud for extended periods of time, the system flows can
be readjusted in a gradual manner to rebalance the system 100, e.g., by reverting to
the second operational mode (Figure 2B) or the first operational mode (Figure 2A).
[0041]        During at least some seasons (e.g., midsummer), and at least some
hours (e.g., around midday), the system 100 can enter a forth operational mode
                                           -13-

(shown in Figure 2D) corresponding to a peak level of incident radiation received at
the solar collector 120. In this mode, the fourth valve 154d can be at least partially
opened to produce a first flow (indicated by arrows A) passing through the second
heater portion 114, and a second flow (indicated by arrows B) passing directly from
the solar collector 120 to the fifth junction 155e. At the fifth junction 155e, the two
flows combine to produce a combined flow (indicated by arrow C) at the steam outlet
156. In this mode, the burner 111 can be further turned down, while a sufficient flow
of water is directed through both the first heater portion 113 and second heater
portion 114 to prevent these portions from drying out or otherwise degrading due to
low flow conditions. In at least some cases, the peak steam production capacity of
the solar collector 120 can exceed the input needs of the target 130.            In such
instances, excess steam or heat can be diverted to other uses (e.g., thermal storage
and/or thermoelectric power generation via a steam-powered turbine generator or
other suitable device), or some of the solar concentrators 125 can be moved to an
off-focus position to reduce excess output.
[0042]       Suitable thermal storage techniques and systems include (a) passing
the heated water through a heat exchanger (e.g., with liquid salt, thermal oil, or
another suitable composition as a working fluid in thermal,              but not fluid,
communication with the water); (b) embedding steam conduits in concrete or
another thermal storage medium, including in some cases, a phase change material;
and/or (c) using a wet steam accumulator. In any of these embodiments, the excess
steam production can result from an output by the solar collector 120 that exceeds
the output of the heater 110 alone. In some cases, this excess steam capacity may
be used by the target 130 (e.g., an oilfield) as oil production expands over the life of
a typical thermal EOR project.        Suitable thermal storage media and associated
techniques are described further below with reference to Figures 7A-7E.
[0043]       The injection wells 131 can accept steam flow at a rate determined by
characteristics including the diameter and depth of the injection wells, their downhole
completions, and by characteristics of the formation including downhole pressure
and injectivity (resistance to flow).   As steam injection and oil production proceed
during the life of a thermal recovery project, downhole pressure and injectivity
change. Typically downhole pressure is reduced in an effort to make steam more
effective, and injectivity rises as the areas of the formation surrounding the injector
                                            -14-

well heat up and experience other physical changes associated with steam and oil
production. Accordingly, the peak rate of steam flow down an individual injector well
for a given wellhead steam pressure will typically rise from the initial value when the
well is first completed and steam injection commences. Accordingly, a solar-versus
fuel-fired steam balance may be planned to change over the early life of a
steamflood project, because higher peak rates become possible and as a result a
higher total amount of steam may be delivered during daylight hours (when solar
steam generation is operating), and the burner 111 may be turned down more
deeply. Similarly, an installation of steam generation may be planned which during
the early life of the field requires dumping solar energy during peak-radiation
periods, whereas later during the life cycle, less or no dumping is required as the
system can accommodate higher peak flows.
[0044]         In any of these embodiments, after the peak incident radiation period
has passed, the system 100 can revert to the third mode shown in Figure 2C. As
the incident sunlight further wanes toward the end of the day, the system 100 can
then revert to the second mode shown in Figure 2B, and as night falls, can revert to
the first mode shown in Figure 2A.       As the system 100 transitions to night time
operation (the first operational mode), the water passing through the solar collector
120 absorbs residual heat from the solar collector 120. Accordingly, by the time the
solar collector 120 is isolated from the water flow passing through the heater 110,
the residual heat remaining in the solar collector has been effectively absorbed by
the water and converted to steam, thus reducing or eliminating what would otherwise
be radiation losses from the solar collector 120 at night.
[0045]         One feature of an embodiment of the system 100 described above is
that it can include a single heater that can be coupled to the solar collector 120 in
parallel or in series, depending on the operational mode. For example, in the first
operational mode shown in Figure 2A, the first and second heater portions 113, 114
operate in series with each other, and the solar collector 120 is excluded from the
circuit. In the second operational mode shown in Figure 2B, the first heater portion
113 of the heater operates in parallel with the solar collector 120, and the second
heater portion 114 operates in series with the solar collector 120.          In the third
operational mode shown in Figure 2C, both the first and second heater portions 113,
114 operate in series with the solar collector 120, with the first heater portion 113
                                          -15-

coupled upstream of the solar collector 120, and the second heater portion 114
coupled downstream of the solar collector 120.           In the fourth operational mode
shown in Figure 2D, the first heater portion 113 operates in series with the solar
collector 120, and the second heater portion 114 operates in series with only a part
of the flow exiting the solar collector 120. Accordingly, the controller can control the
flow of water through the system, and can direct the water through the solar collector
120 and the heater 110 in accordance with different sequences.              In particular
embodiments, one portion of the flow is directed through the solar collector and the
fuel-fired heater in accordance with a first sequence, and the same (or a different)
portion of the flow is directed through the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in
accordance with a second, different, sequence.
[0046]         As a result of the forgoing multiple operational modes, the output
provided by the solar collector 120 can be improved (e.g., optimized) to take best
advantage of the incident solar radiation, and the output provided by the heater 110
can be improved (e.g., optimized) to supplement the output provided by the solar
collector 120, as needed, and to improve or optimize the efficiency with which the
heater 110 operates.       This is unlike typical existing arrangements which include
heaters arranged only in series or only in parallel.
[0047]         As noted above, the system 100 can operate in at least the foregoing
operational modes with only a single heater 110 in addition to the solar collector 120.
The single heater can include multiple heater conduits and flow paths, multiple
burners and multiple heater portions, but in at least some embodiments, hot gas flow
from the burner(s) passes serially over at least two water-carrying portions, (e.g., the
first portion 113 and the second portion 114), each of which can carry an
individually-controllable flow of water. This arrangement can reduce the number of
heaters used to supplement the solar collector 120, while at the same time providing
the flexibility to increase efficiencies in both the solar collector 120 and the heater
110 as conditions change.
[0048]         Another advantage of the foregoing arrangements is that embodiments
of the system 100 do not include a separator that separates low quality steam and/or
water from high quality steam.        Instead, any steam that may have less than the
desired quality level passes through the heater 110 to provide sufficient control over
the quality of steam provided to the target 130.
                                             -16-

[0049]       Another feature of at least some of the foregoing embodiments is that
they can take advantage of the ability to turn down the burner 111, thus reducing
fuel consumption that may be unnecessary in light of the heat provided by the solar
collector 120. Accordingly, it is desirable to include a burner 111 that has a deep
turndown ratio so that the highest total fraction of solar steam may be provided to
the target 130. Typical fuel-fired burners 111 have a limited turndown ratio. These
limits can be due to the operational characteristics of the burner 111 itself.      For
example, the burner 111 will typically deliver a stable, clean (low-emission) flame
only within a designed operating range. The turndown ratio of the burner 111 may
also depend on whether the burner 111 is capable of being operated with more than
one fuel, for example, diesel or natural gas, or gas with a varying range of heating
values. The turndown ratio of the burner 111 may also depend on whether features
such as exhaust gas recirculation are used to reduce the emissions of certain
combustion products, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx).        The ability to turn down the
burner 111 is also restricted by the need to maintain effective mixing flow across the
heat exchanger surfaces within the heater 110 (e.g., at the first heater position 113
and/or the second heater position 114). If an inadequate air flow is provided to the
heater portions 113, 114, the temperature at the burner exhaust 112 will increase,
increasing the amount of heat dumped to the environment.           If the flow of water
through the heater 110 is inadequate, the heat exchanger tubing in the first heater
portion 113 and/or the second heater portion 114 may overheat, causing the tubes
to rupture and/or the temperatures at the burner exhaust 112 to increase, again
increasing maintenance costs and reducing overall efficiency.
[0050]       The foregoing turndown limitations can be accommodated with the
system configuration shown in Figure 1. For example, in both the second and third
operational modes (Figures 2B and 2C, respectively), the full flow of water is routed
through the second heater portion 114, reducing or eliminating the likelihood that the
flow of water through the second heater portion 114 will be inadequate. In the first,
third and fourth operational modes (Figures 2A, 2C and 2D, respectively), the full
flow of water is directed through the first heater portion 113, reducing or eliminating
the likelihood for inadequate flow during these modes. During the second mode, the
first valve 154a can be monitored so as to continue providing adequate flow to the
first heater portion 113 as an increasing amount of flow is directed to the solar
                                           -17-

collector 120. Because the first heater 113 operates at lower temperatures than the
second heater portion 114, the first heater 113 can tolerate a greater reduction in
flow.   The system 100 can be sized so that even when some flow bypasses the
second heater portion 114 in the fourth operational mode, an adequate flow is
provided. In this mode, the total flow through the system can be increased relative
to the flow provided during the first, second, and third operational modes.
[0051]        Another feature of embodiments of the system described above include
a single (or in some embodiments, an integrated) controller arrangement that
monitors and controls both the solar collection 120 and the heater 110 to produce
the desired flow rate and steam quality delivered to the target 130. This can be a
peer relationship established between two separate controllers, or a hierarchical
relationship where, e.g., a master controller communicates with a solar controller
and a heater controller, or a single controller provides such communication. This is
unlike conventional arrangements for which these two control and monitoring
functions are separated, which can be more costly and less efficient to implement
than the presently described technology. Embodiments of the present systems can
also reduce the number of overall system components because several components
are shared by the solar collector 120 and the heater 110.           These components
include a single inlet device 152 that directs flow to both the solar collector 120 and
the heater 110, and a single overall steam outlet 156.
[0052]        Still another feature of embodiments of the system described above is
that flow rates through the solar collector 120 can be relatively high at both low and
high incident radiation conditions. At low incident radiation conditions, the second
heater portion 114 supplements, as needed, heat produced by the solar collector
120.    At high incident radiation conditions, the high flow rate reduces excessively
high temperatures at the solar collector 120, which would otherwise increase
radiation losses.     Such losses can be significant, as these are proportional to
temperature raised to the fourth power. In particular, elements of the solar collector
120, e.g., the collection conduits or other receivers, are generally uninsulated so as
to facilitate absorbing solar radiation. As the temperature of the receivers increases,
losses increase at a very high rate (as T 4). Accordingly, it may be desirable in at
least some embodiments to keep the solar collector 120 (or portions of the solar
collector 120) at lower rather than higher temperatures. This can be accomplished,
                                           -18-

for example, by having a greater portion of the solar collector 120 elevate the water
toward the vaporization temperature, and a lesser portion of the solar collector 120
evaporate the water (change its phase) and/or elevate the vapor beyond the vapor
transition temperature. Aspects of the system 100 allow the operator to optimize, for
each radiation condition, the efficiency of the solar collector 120 and the heater 110.
Flow is apportioned between the first portion 113 of the heater 110 and the solar
collector 120 based on consideration of the simultaneous efficiency of each for the
currently available solar radiation.
[0053]        Figure 3 is a partially schematic illustration of a system 300 that can
include fewer valves than the system 100 described above, in accordance with
another embodiment of the present technology. The system 300 includes several
features similar or identical to the corresponding features shown in Figure 1,
including a water source 151, a heater 110, a solar collector 120, a controller 140,
and a target 130. The system 300 further includes a first valve 354a but may not
include corresponding second, third, and fourth valves such as those shown in
Figure 1. Instead, the first valve 354a can be selectively adjusted to (a) direct all the
water from the water source 151 through the heater 110 (and no water through the
solar collector 120), or (b) a first portion of the water through the heater 110 (in
particular, the first portion 113 of the heater 110) and another portion of the water
through the solar collector and the second portion 114 of the heater 110, or (c) all
the water from the water source 151 through the solar collector 120 and the second
portion 114 of the heater 110. This arrangement provides for better efficiency than
an arrangement in which the heater 110 and the solar collector 120 are in a fixed
parallel configuration.      For example, this arrangement can provide improved
efficiency during the early part of the day, as discussed above with reference to
Figure 2B, and can isolate the solar collector 120 and recapture residual heat from
the solar collector 120, in a manner generally similar to that discussed above with
reference to Figure 2A.      In addition, with the arrangement shown in Figure 1, the
arrangement shown in Figure 3 does not include a separator.
[0054]        Figure 4 is a partially schematic illustration of a system 400 that includes
a heat recovery steam generator 470, in accordance with still another embodiment
of the present technology. The heat recovery steam generator 470 can include a
combustion turbine 462 that provides hot exhaust gases to a heater 410.                The
                                             -19-

exhaust gases can optionally be further heated via a supplemental heater 463 (e.g.,
a duct heater). The heater 410 can include a first portion 413 (e.g., an economizer)
positioned downstream in the exhaust gas flow path from a second portion 414 (e.g.,
a superheat portion).       The heater 410 can further include an evaporator 460
positioned upstream of the first portion 413. In other embodiments the evaporator
can have other locations, e.g., upstream of the second portion 414.      A steam drum
461 is positioned to collect liquid and/or vapor phase water and separate the vapor
phase water from the liquid phase water. A water source 551 directs water to the
solar collector 120 and/or the heat recovery steam generator 470, depending, for
example, upon the settings of a first valve 454a, a second valve 454b, and a third
valve 454c. The valves and other features of the system 400 are under the control
of a controller 440 that receives inputs 141 and directs outputs 142.
[0055]        In operation, the water source 551 can direct water to the solar collector
120 alone, to the heat recovery generator 470 alone, or to both the solar collector
120 and the heat recovery generator 470, depending upon the position of the first
valve 454a. Water directed to the solar collector 120 (as indicated by arrow A)
returns to the steam drum 461, as indicated by arrow I. Water directed to the heat
recovery steam generator 470, as indicated by arrow B, passes through the first
portion 413 and then to the evaporator 460 (as indicated by arrow C), and/or around
the evaporator 460 (as indicated by arrow D). Water directed to the evaporator 460
is evaporated and passes to the steam drum 461 as indicated by arrow E.
Condensate from the steam drum 461 returns to the evaporator 460 as indicated by
arrow F. Vapor passes from the steam drum 461 to the second portion 414 as
indicated by arrow G. After being heated at the second portion 414, the vapor can
optionally pass through an attemperator 464 that sprays water received from the
water source 551 into the steam flow to manage the temperature of the steam,
which is then directed to the target 130.
[0056]        Water bypassing the evaporator 460 (as indicated by arrow D) can pass
directly to the steam drum 461, and/or to the solar collector 120, depending upon the
position of third valve 454c.
[0057]        In the embodiment shown in Figure 4, the system 400 includes a heat
recovery steam generator 470 coupled to the solar collector 120 in a manner that
achieves at least some of the features and advantages described above.               For
                                           -20-

example, the system 400 can selectively direct water to the solar collector 120
and/or the heater 410. The system can recapture heat from the solar collector 120
during and/or approaching night time operation, in a manner generally similar to that
described above with reference to Figures 2A-3.
[0058]       One feature of many of the embodiments described above is that the
embodiments can include a heater (e.g., a boiler) with a pre-heat section, in
combination with a solar concentrator, both of which receive the same working fluid
throughout. This arrangement can be configured in accordance with a number of
operational modes to enhance the overall efficiency of the system. In particular, the
systems can be optimized to efficiently provide a target quantity and quality of
steam, accounting for a wide variety of factors that include radiative losses at the
solar collector 120, and fuel use at the heater. The thermal efficiency of the solar
collector is loosely determined by the temperature of the receiver elements at the
solar collector, the inlet temperature of the water at the solar collector, the flow rate
of water through the solar collector, the collected radiation. The efficiency of the
heater can be defined by a variety of parameters, including the inlet water
temperature, flow rate, exhaust gas temperature, and the fuel burn rate. The overall
system can be configured to increase the efficiency of, and/or optimize the operation
of, the steam generation process by adjusting the interactions between the heater
and the solar collector. This flexible arrangement provides for efficient operation
despite varying environmental conditions.
[0059]        Figure 5 is a representative graph illustrating the heat contribution
provided by a representative heater and a solar collector, along with the cumulative
heat provided by both, as a function of hours during a typical day of operation. As
shown in Figure 5, the system can be tailored to provide a generally constant
cumulative heat output by varying the heat contribution provided by the heater as the
heat contribution provided by the solar collector increases and decreases during the
course of the day.
[0060]        Figure 5 illustrates general variations in the heat contribution provided
by a solar collector.    Figure 6 illustrates with more granularity the variation in the
radiation incident on the solar collector during typical operation.    As is evidenced
from Figure 6, the incident solar radiation can vary significantly, and can vary
quickly.   As discussed above, embodiments of the present technology include a
                                            -21-

heater operatively integrated with the solar collector to account for such variations
while still providing a uniform quality and quantity of steam, as may be required by
the target user.
[0061]        Particular embodiments of the systems described above experience
time-varying average temperatures at the solar collector, which are managed in such
a manner as to optimize (or at least improve) total steam output as a function of fuel
firing. Based on expected current energy production (e.g., based on radiation/time
of day), the systems can apportion boiler feedwater flow rates and flow patterns in
the manners described above.          At least some conventional systems focus on
adjusting the flow rates in a solar boiler so as to achieve a particular outlet steam
temperature or outlet steam condition, holding that steam condition a constant. By
contrast, embodiments of the present technology focus on achieving the greatest
combined efficiency, integrated over a fuel-fired heater and solar steam generator.
The controller can apportion flow rate and flow patterns so as to optimize, or at least
improve, the total steam produced by the combination -- balancing efficiency losses
in the fuel-fired boiler due to effects of reduced liquid flow causing higher stack
temperatures, against efficiency losses at the solar collector, which vary strongly
with the temperature of the collector. The controller manages the combined system
in such a way (e.g., via the modes described above) that during lower-radiation
periods, the solar field collector is operating at lower average temperatures than a
parallel arrangement would provide. Embodiments of the systems can monitor and
respond to both the water inlet temperature and the system outlet temperature, as
well as the outlet steam quality. As the efficiency of a solar collector varies strongly
with its receiver temperature (since radiation losses vary as T 4), lowering the
temperature (e.g., the average temperature and/or the peak temperature) can
significantly improve the overall system efficiency.
[0062]        The temperature of the steam in particular embodiments of the present
technology is ultimately determined by the system outlet pressure, and in particular,
the saturation temperature for that pressure. In a pure solar boiler, inlet water flows
through the solar collector, rising in temperature until it begins to boil. As boiling
water flows through the tubes, its temperature changes little as more thermal energy
is added, driving the phase change from liquid to vapor phase until enough energy
has been added to complete the conversion to steam.             However, in a typical
                                           -22-

operating mode for embodiments of the presently disclosed systems, the outlet
quality is less than 100% steam. As a result, the temperature profile of the solar
collector is determined by the currently available solar radiation, the inlet feedwater
temperature, and the inlet flow rate. Higher flow rates will reduce the outlet steam
quality (perhaps to 0) and will push the boiling point in the collector further
downstream.      Lower inlet water temperatures will have the same effect. However,
flow diversion from away from the heater and to the solar collector will raise the
exhaust gas temperature          at the   heater and    reduce its thermal     efficiency
proportionally.   Aspects of the present technology are direct to balancing these
countervailing effects. For each radiation condition, for each size of solar collector
and fuel-fired boiler, with their respective efficiency curves, there exists an optimum
operating point at which the combined efficiency of the two is maximized or at least
improved.     The controller logic can be configured to achieve or approximately
achieve this operating point.
[0063]        Figures 7A-7E illustrate systems in accordance with still further
embodiments of the present technology. These systems include thermal storage
functions and/or close proximity between the solar collector and the heater, with both
features configured to increase the overall efficiency with which steam is generated
and provided to an oil field or other target site. Several features of the systems
shown in Figures 7A-7E are common to those described above with reference to
Figures 2A-2E and are therefore shown and/or described below with less detail.
Such features will typically operate in manners generally similar to those described
above with reference to Figures 2A-2E.
[0064]        Figure 7A illustrates a system 700a that includes a solar collector 120, a
heater 110, and a water flow system 150 coupled together to provide steam at an
overall steam outlet 156, which is directed to a target 130. The water flow system
150 can include one source of multiple (e.g., distributed) sources. Individual sources
can   operate autonomously or can           be interconnected, depending       upon the
embodiment. In addition, the system 700a can include a storage medium 770, e.g.
a tank or other suitable medium, that stores water or another working fluid in such a
manner as to preserve the thermal energy of the working fluid for later use.
Accordingly, the storage medium 770 can include insulation and/or other features
that reduce thermal losses.
                                            -23-

[00651       The system 700a can include a series of pumps 152a-152d (referred to
collectively as pumps 152) and valves 754a-754g (referred to collectively as valves
754) that direct the water or other working fluid in a variety of manners depending
upon the operational mode. For example, as shown in Figure 7A, the system 700a
can include a water source 151 that provides water to a first pump 152a. The first
pump 152a can direct the water to the heater 110 via a first valve 754a and a
second pump 152b, or can direct the water to the storage medium 770 via a second
valve 754b. A third valve 754c controls whether the water directed from the water
source 151 is provided to the storage medium 770 or to the solar collector 120.
Water released from the storage medium 770 can be directed via a third pump 152c
to the solar collector 120 or to the heater 110, depending upon the settings of a
fourth valve 754d and a fifth valve 754e. Water directed to the solar collector 120
can be further pressurized by a fourth pump 152d. The positions of the valves 754
shown in Figures 7A-7E are illustrative only - the valves 754 can assume positions
other than those shown in the Figures depending upon the operational mode of the
system at any given point in time.
[0066]       Water (e.g., in liquid and/or vapor form) exiting the solar collector 120
can be directed to the overall steam outlet 156, or to the storage medium 770,
depending upon the setting of a sixth valve 754f and a seventh valve 754g.         For
example, when the solar collector 120 produces relatively low quality steam (or no
steam), e.g., when the solar collector 120 is starting up, shutting down, and/or is
subject to low or no solar insolation (e.g., due to cloud cover), the water/steam can
be directed (e.g., diverted) to the storage medium 770. This mode of operation can
be entered as a function of time of day (e.g., morning or evening) and/or other
parameters (e.g., insolation or steam quality). As the quality of the steam put out by
the solar collector 120 increases, the output (or a greater fraction of the output) is
provided to the overall steam outlet 156.       Accordingly, heat received at the solar
collector can be directed to the overall steam outlet 156 (and from there to an oil
field or other target) during a first operational mode, and can be directed to the
thermal storage medium 770 during a second operational mode.
[0067]       In one mode of operation, the solar collector 120 and the heater 110 can
operate together to provide steam to the overall steam outlet 156, in a manner
generally similar to that described above with reference to Figure 2D, with the sixth
                                           -24-

valve 754f opened.      During nighttime operation, or other phases when the solar
collector 120 produces no steam or an insufficient quantity of steam, the sixth valve
754f can be closed to isolate the solar collector 120 from the heater 110, the overall
steam outlet 156, and the target 130.      In at least some embodiments, the water
remaining in the solar collector 120 and associated conduits can be directed through
a steam storage line 771 to the storage medium 770, so as to avoid losing the heat
contained in this working fluid.   During a subsequent start up process, the solar
collector 120 can remain isolated from the overall steam outlet 156 and the heater
110 to avoid the need for a "blow down" process (and associated "hammer" effects)
that may be caused by mixing high temperature steam created by the heater 110
with water or a mixture of water and low quality steam produced during the startup of
the solar collector 120.     Once the quality of the steam produced by the solar
collector 120 exceeds a threshold value (e.g. 80%, 90% or 95% depending upon the
embodiment), the sixth valve 754f can be opened to allow the steam provided by the
solar collector 120 to supplement and/or replace the steam provided by the heater
110.
[0068]       The solar collector 120 can be linked to the heater 110 with a first
connecting line 772, and the overall steam outlet can be linked to the target 130 with
a second connecting line 776.      During the day, the second connecting line 776
remains hot due to the steam provided by the heater 110 and/or the solar collector
120.    At night, the second connecting line 776 remains hot due to the steam
provided by the heater 110, but the first connecting line 772 cools, and must be re
heated when the solar collector 120 restarts the next day.           Accordingly, in a
particular embodiment, a first length Li of the first connecting line 772 between the
solar collector outlet 124 and the heater outlet 116 can be reduced, so as to reduce
or minimize the thermal losses that may result from a long first connecting line 772
that is exposed to radiation losses during the night. For example, in at least some
existing conventional arrangements, the first length Li of the first connecting line
772 can exceed 1,000 meters, 5,000 meters, or even 10,000 meters. In particular
embodiments of the presently disclosed technology, the length of the first connecting
line 772 can be reduced, e.g. to a value of less than 1,000 meters and in further
particular embodiments, less than 500 meters, less than 250 meters, less than 100
meters, less than 50 meters, or less than 10 meters. By co-locating the heater 110
                                          -25-

and the solar collector 120 and reducing the first length L1, the overall system
thermal losses can accordingly be reduced.
[0069]       In addition to (or in lieu of) shortening the length Li of the first
connecting line 772, the system 700a can be configured to keep one or more
portions of the first connecting line 772 hot, even when the solar collector 120 is
inactive. For example, the first connecting line 772 can include an upstream portion
772a and a downstream portion 772b. By sloping the first connecting portion 772 (to
provide gravity-driven condensate flow) and/or by properly adjusting the sixth,
seventh, and/or other valves, the system can maintain the downstream portion 772b
and/or the upstream portion 772a at a pressure and temperature that maintain the
flow and/or presence of steam.
[0070]       Because     the   second    connecting    line 776  is  generally   heated
continuously, it may be less important to reduce the second length L2 of this line. In
particular embodiments, the second connecting line 776 can be insulated to reduce
thermal losses. In some embodiments, an additional heater 110 can be positioned
along the second connecting line 776 to offset thermal losses.          In any of the
foregoing embodiments, the heaters 110 can be distributed so as to keep the lines
hot, thus delivering increased high quality steam to the target 130.
[0071]       Figure 7B illustrates a particular embodiment in which an oil field is
provided with steam injection, that is in turn provided from multiple sources located
around the oil field. The multiple sources can include one or more solar fields (each
of which can include one or more solar collectors 120) coupled in close proximity to
a heater and/or heat storage medium (e.g., a heater 110 and storage medium 770,
as shown in Figure 7A).      Individual solar fields can have corresponding dedicated
storage media (e.g., storage tanks) and/or dedicated water supplies.            In other
embodiments, the storage media and/or water supplies cam be interconnected. In
particular embodiments, the overall system can also include a central heater source
that supplements heat provided by individual pairings of heaters and solar fields.
The central heater source can also include mobile heaters that may be moved to
different locations that require heat as the steam requirements of the oil field shift or
change. As shown in Figure 7B, at least some of the solar fields can be located well
beyond the initial edge of the injection zone, to allow for expansion of the oil field
injection operations without interfering with the solar collection process.          For
                                            -26-

example, new injection wells may be added between initial injection wells and one or
more of the solar fields because the solar fields are positioned far enough away from
the initial injection wells to allow for additional injection wells.
[0072]          Figure 7C illustrates another embodiment of an overall system 700c that
includes several features similar to those described above with reference to Figure
7A. In addition, the system 700c can include a separator 775 that separates higher
quality steam from lower quality steam and/or water.               Accordingly, steam or a
liquid/steam mixture exiting the solar collector 120 enters the separator 775, with
steam directed to the sixth valve 754f and the overall steam outlet 156. Water is
directed from the separator 775 to the seventh valve 754g for delivery to the storage
medium 770.         In addition, the separator 775 itself can serve as a storage medium
and can accordingly be insulated and/or otherwise configured to reduce thermal
losses. In a particular embodiment, the system 700c can include a heat exchanger
776 (e.g., a counterflow heat exchanger) that transfers heat from the water
separated at the separator 775 to water entering the solar collector 120.               In the
illustrated embodiment, the heat exchanger 776 is positioned upstream of the fourth
pump 152d.         In other embodiments, the heat exchanger 776 can be positioned
downstream of the fourth pump 152d.              In any of these embodiments, the water
removed from the separator 775 and directed through the heat exchanger 776 can
then be directed to the storage medium 770, as discussed above.               In still further
embodiments, for example, when the water includes an unacceptably high level of
sediment, minerals, and/or other particulates, the water removed from the separator
775 can instead be directed to a filtration system, or simply dumped, as indicated in
dashed lines in Figure 7C.
[0073]         The system 700c can also include an eighth valve 754h and a ninth
valve 754i.       The eighth valve 754h can optionally direct steam to the storage
medium 770. The ninth valve 754i can be used to selectively add water back to the
flow of steam produced at the separator 775 to control the quality of the steam.
[0074]          Figure 7D illustrates a system 700d configured in accordance with still
another embodiment of the present disclosure.              In this embodiment, the system
700d includes a separator 775 and a storage medium 770, as discussed above with
reference to Figure 7C.            In addition, the system 700d can include a valving
arrangement, generally similar to that described above with reference to Figures 2A
                                               -27-

2D, which allows water to be selectively directed the first heater portion 113 and/or
the second heater portion 114 of the heater 110. Accordingly, the system 700d can
include a tenth valve 754j, an eleventh valve 754k, and a twelfth valve 754.     Each of
these valves can be adjusted to direct water through only the first heater portion 113
(e.g., by opening the tenth valve 754j and closing the eleventh valve 754k and the
twelfth valve 754t) or through both the first heater portion 113 and the second heater
portion 114.   For example, with the tenth valve 754j open and the eleventh valve
754k closed, water is pre-heated at the first heater portion 113 before entering the
solar collector 120.     By opening the twelfth valve 754t, water collected at the
separator 775 can be directed to the second heater portion 114 so as to be
converted to steam. Accordingly, the twelfth valve 754t can be operated to direct
water removed from the separator 775 into the heater 110, rather than to the storage
medium 770.      In this mode of operation, the seventh valve 754g is closed at the
same time the twelfth valve 754t is opened.
[0075]       Figure 7E illustrates a system 700e configured in accordance with yet
another embodiment of the present technology.          In this embodiment, the system
700e includes features generally similar to those discussed above with reference to
Figure 7D, and, in addition, include a thirteenth valve 754m. The thirteenth valve
754m, in combination with the twelfth valve 754t, allow water removed from the
separator 775 to be directed to either the first heater portion 113 or the second
heater portion 114. The settings of these valves can be determined by the controller
140, and the process for opening and/or closing these and/or any other valves of the
system can be based upon the relative temperatures and pressures of the water in
the system, the extent to which the water requires further heat, the demands of the
target 130 and/or other factors. For example, if the water exiting the separator 775
is at a temperature below that of the first heater portion 113, it can be directed to the
first heater portion 113 before being directed to the second heater portion 114. If
the water exiting the separator 775 has a temperature above that of the first heater
portion 113 and below that of the second heater portion 114, it can be directed to
the second heater portion 114, bypassing the first heater portion 113.
[0076]       Embodiments of the systems described above with reference to Figures
7A-7E include features that can provide one or more of several advantages over
conventional systems.      For example, at least some of the embodiments of the
                                           -28-

foregoing systems include a storage medium.          The storage medium can recover
heat that is present in the solar collector 120 after shutdown and/or during periods of
low output, and can accordingly eliminate or at least reduce the losses associated
with simply allowing this heat to exit the system via radiation, convection, and/or
conduction.
[0077]       Another feature of at least some of the foregoing embodiments is that
the heater 110 can be operated to provide a continuous flow of steam overnight. In
some embodiments, the amount of steam produced by the heater at night is
sufficient to meet the requirements of the target 130, e.g., to maintain an oil field
injection process at full capacity. In other embodiments, the heater 110 can operate
at night simply to maintain a threshold flow of steam through the system.         This
arrangement can eliminate the thermal cycling that would otherwise be experienced
by these portions of the system, and can eliminate water accumulation in the lines to
which it is connected. This in turn can reduce operating risks and startup delays,
and can reduce maintenance costs. When used in this latter mode (e.g., to provide
a threshold level of steam that may be below typical operational requirements), the
heater can be appropriately sized to meet this functional requirement. In particular,
the heater can be smaller than a heater sized to produce the full steam output
required by the target 130, and/or can be configured to operate efficiently at low
output levels when simply maintaining the threshold level of steam rather than a fully
operational level of steam.
[0078]       Another feature of at least some of the foregoing embodiments includes
maintaining steam in a greater fraction of the lines associated with steam
production, despite the cyclic nature of the solar collector.      This approach can
reduce the likelihood for line blow down.        For example, as discussed above, the
conduits associated with the solar generator can be isolated from the rest of the
system during startup to reduce or eliminate contact between water and high quality
steam, until the solar generator produces steam at a high enough quality to be
reconnected with the rest of the system. This arrangement can reduce the waste
steam associated with line blow down, reduce lost steam production periods
associated with line blow down, and/or reduce the maintenance costs associated
with thermal cycling of the lines. Such maintenance costs may include repairing or
                                            -29-

replacing lines that become damaged as a result of cyclic, thermally-induced
expansion and contraction.
[0079]       Still another feature of at least some of the foregoing embodiments is
that a heater can be co-located with a corresponding solar collector to reduce the
length of the connecting line between the solar collector and the overall steam
outlet.   As discussed above, this arrangement can reduce blow down, thermal
losses, and/or the maintenance costs. In particular embodiments, a single heater
may be coupled to a single solar collector. In other embodiments, a single heater
may serve multiple solar collectors (e.g., arranged circumferentially around a
common heater). In still further embodiments, multiple heaters can service a single
solar collector.
[0080]        Figures 8A-8C illustrate still further aspects of the disclosed technology.
Figures 8A illustrates an injection system that uses a 2" flow line and fixed chokes at
the well heads to control steam flow. The fixed chokes rely on choked (sonic) flow to
limit the flow through each pipe and provide a uniform flow over many pipes.
Injection rates to the wells can vary with steam generator pressure, with injection
rates typically limited to about 1000 bbl/day. Figure 8B illustrates a system with
automated (adjustable) chokes, and with the chokes moved from the wells to the
upstream manifolds.       The flow lines are increased from 2" to 3" in diameter,
producing injection rates up to about 2000 bbl/day.            Figure 8C, which will be
discussed in greater detail later, illustrates oversized flow lines configured to
enhance the use of solar generated steam.
[0081]       Typical oil field steam injection techniques include "cyclic stimulation" or
"huff-and-puff" injection, in which steam is injected into all oil wells for some period
of time. Each well is optionally left for an additional period of time to "soak", and then
oil and water are produced back from the well, until production falls to a
predetermined rate, or a predetermined period of time has passed. The cycle -
inject, soak, produce -- is then repeated.
[0082]       Another common approach involves continuous injection of steam in
one set of wells ("injectors"), and continuous production in adjacent wells
("producers").    Based on the spatial relationship of injectors and producers such
                                             -30-

projects are known as steam floods, steam drives, SAGD (steam assisted gravity
drainage), and by other names as well.
[0083]        It is common in a particular oilfield to begin the overall steam injection
project with a period of cyclic injection in all wells, so as to produce early oil and also
so as to warm the formation, improving the permeability and communication
between injectors and producers. Then it is common to begin steamflood continuous
or semi-continuous injection in the injection wells for an extended period of time.
During the early period of the project, continuing injection of steam raises the
temperature of the formation surrounding the injection well. The higher temperatures
and the flow within the formation away from the injector well of fluids, including oil,
increases the "injectivity" of the well - that is, increases the rate of steam flow into
the injector well for a given wellhead steam pressure. As injectivity rises, in many
steamflood operations, to maintain a roughly constant daily mass of steam per
injector, the surface steam pressure may be reduced.
[0084]        A typical steamflood has a limited number of steam sources, e.g. one or
a plurality of boilers -- and a much larger number of injection wells. An important
element to the success of any steamflood is the proper distribution of steam flow into
the injection wells. Without proper design for the distribution of steam, more steam
might flow into those injection wells which are located closer to the boilers (with
correspondingly lower flow-related hydraulic pressure drop), and less steam would
flow into wells which are relatively farther from the boilers. Such imbalance of steam
distribution is undesirable, as it would provide imbalance of formation heating and
reduce both the rate of production and the total recovery of oil. Accordingly, flow
control devices installed at each wellhead, or installed at each group of wells, are an
important part of a steamflood operation. As noted above with reference to Figures
8A and 8B, fixed chokes are used in some contexts (steamflood) and automated
adjustable chokes in others (cyclic).
[0085]        As steam injection proceeds over months and years, the formation
eventually heats and reaches an equilibrium or plateau condition, where a steam
space and heated region has been established. The rate of steam injection required
to maintain this heated zone is typically lower than the rate of steam injection which
was required to heat the formation originally and overcome thermal losses. As a
                                             -31-

result, the total amount of steam per injector per day into a given injector well
typically is reduced after this equilibrium condition has been achieved.
[0086]        The operating characteristics of solar steam generators, whose output
varies widely from zero flow overnight to peak flow at noon, are quite different from
the operating characteristics of fuel-fired steam generators, which typically are
operated at a roughly constant rate of steam production for extended periods (weeks
or months of continuous constant-output operation).             The interconnection of solar
steam generators poses particular issues for the design of oilfield steam distribution
networks and steam injection wells, particularly as the desired fraction of solar steam
increases.
[0087]        As discussed above, the output of a solar steam generator (e.g., a solar
collector) and a fuel-fired steam generator (e.g., a heater) can be balanced - as solar
steam output increases, the firing rate and steam generation rate of fuel-fired steam
generation is decreased, so as to provide an approximately constant total rate of
steam production per hour. In such a roughly constant-rate steam production, the
total fraction of annual steam which can be provided by solar is limited by the
fraction of annual hours when suitable solar radiation is available. Typical figures
are in the range of 20% to 30% of total annual steam.
[0088]         It is of significant value to oilfield operators to derive a greater fraction of
their total annual steam from solar energy, without reducing the rate of oil production
from the field.        This is accomplished in accordance with embodiments of the
presently disclosed technology by injecting more steam during the day, and less at
night. In particular embodiments, this includes allowing the peak steam flow rate to
rise above the daily average rate, and allowing the overnight rate of steam injection
to drop below the daily average rate.
[0089]        This matter of daily rate variation of steam injection poses challenges for
both the design of the injection wells and the design of the steam distribution
network. The present disclosure addresses both topics.
Solar Fraction Versus Life Of Field
[0090]        Typically in a steamflood operation, the rate of steam injection per well
is established by the steam flow needed during the earliest period of the steamflood
-- that is, the time when the formation is coldest, has the lowest injectivity (lowest
                                                -32-

flow versus pressure), and requires the greatest amount of steam to achieve
formation warming.       A field is designed with a chosen number of injection wells,
designed to handle a particular steam pressure and flow, so as to economically
improve (e.g., optimize) the cost of steam injection versus the oil production
response.      More injection wells on closer spacing, or higher steam pressures and
well bores, can of course result in higher rates of steam injection; but such changes
also result in higher cost. Those skilled in the art commonly optimize the cost of
facilities against the projected value of the oil production expected from such
facilities design, so as to arrive at a balanced design which trades cost against
expected revenue.
[0091]        If high-fraction solar steam were desired at the outset of the steamflood,
the high rate variation associated with solar steam production would face limited
injectivity and high demand for steam per well. Delivering a large amount of steam
per hour against high injection pressures would increase the cost of each injection
well (larger bore, higher pressure) and/or the cost of the steam distribution network
(higher peak pressure) and/or the number of injection wells (higher cost due to more
injectors).
[0092]        Accordingly, aspects of the present technology address this issue. In
particular embodiments, solar steam is integrated into the oilfield at an increasing
fraction as the steamflood progresses. The starting configuration of the steamflood
design is optimized as it would be for constant-rate steam injection. Fuel-fired steam
generators are turned down daily to roughly match the output of solar steam
generators, so that total steam production is roughly constant.         As the formation
heats and injectivity rises, more solar steam generators are added to the oilfield, or
fuel-fired steam generators are removed and/or operated less. Without increasing
the peak pressure in the steam distribution network, the rising injectivity allows a
higher peak steam flow and thus allows solar energy to provide a higher fraction of
daily total required steam.      Put another way, higher injectivity allows greater flow
rates at the same or lower pressures. Solar energy can produce the same daily flow
rate as a fuel fired steam generator, but with a high flow rate during the day, and a
low or zero flow rate at night. Accordingly, as the peak flow rate capacity of the
system increases with increased injectivity, solar energy can provide a greater and
greater fraction of the total required steam - it does so by producing more steam
                                            -33-

during the day and less (or none) at night, and accordingly is suitable in cases where
the total flow per day is more important than a consistent flow throughout the day.
[0093]         As the requirement for mass of steam per well per day drops over
months and years of steam injection, the solar steam fraction is increased further, by
installing more solar steam generation capacity and/or removing or reducing the
operation of fuel-fired steam generators. Thus an installation which might in its first
year deliver only 20% solar steam, by its fifth year of operation might be running
80% annual solar steam fraction, without an increase of the number of wells, or an
increase in the pressure rating of the steam distribution network. On a lifetime basis,
then, this innovation optimizes (or at least improves) the total fuel saving (a key goal
of solar steam generation) at a low total capital cost in the steam distribution and
injection network.
Variable-Rate Steam Distribution
[0094]         Typical practice in the oilfield to accomplish the proper distribution of
steam across multiple injection wells is the use of "chokes", devices which
incorporate nonlinear pressure-drop phenomena at a chosen flow rate or pressure.
Flowrate-limiting "fixed chokes" (Figure 8A) deliver a roughly constant flow rate into
a well, limiting the flow rate by flow phenomena associated with the speed of sound.
Using fixed chokes allows a steam injector close to the boiler, at a relatively higher
wellhead steam pressure, to deliver the same mass of steam per day down the well
as another similarly equipped injector at a relatively lower wellhead steam pressure
located farther from the boilers.
[0095]         Such fixed chokes, however, are effective only for a limited range of
operating pressures, and do not allow for the proper distribution of steam at varying
flow rates. As an oilfield changes how it is operated, from total fixed-rate steam, and
low solar steam fraction, to highly varying steam flow rate, and high solar fraction,
fundamentally new mechanisms must be employed to assure proper distribution of
steam across multiple injection wells from a common source.
[0096]         Motor-operated valves and/or motor-operated chokes (Figure 8B) are in
common use for cyclic steam injection operations in the oilfield.          Such motor
operated valves allow steam to be delivered from a common distribution header into
each well on a proper schedule as described above.
                                             -34-

[0097]        The present technology employs motor-operated valves to accomplish
the proper distribution of steam injection across multiple wells at varying flowrates.
In particular embodiments, a controller is associated with each valve, and a sensor
is associated with each injector. A control mechanism determines the appropriate
rate of steam injection for a given well, senses the current flow rate of steam into the
well, and adjusts a motor-operated valve or motor-operated choke so as to bring the
rate to the desired rate.    The desired rate of steam injection into each well may be
calculated locally by a controller based on a fixed schedule (hour of the day), based
on a signal transmitted from a central controller, or based on measurements of
characteristics of the steam distribution network. In some embodiments all steam
injection rates are commanded from a central controller based on the current
availability of solar steam and fuel-fired steam, and information may be broadcast to
wellhead controllers. In other embodiments, a communications path may exist from
a central controller to each wellhead controller and allow finer adjustment of flowrate
per well. In other embodiments, local wellhead controllers may sense characteristics
of the steam distribution network -- e.g. variations in pressure -- and may cause the
controller to move to a defined higher flowrate, than the flowrate at a relatively lower
pressure in the steam distribution network. Each wellhead controller may sense the
mass flow of steam into its associated well by one of several means, including
coriolis-type mass flow meters, sensors which measure the relative pressure on
each side of an orifice plate, sensors which employ rotating elements such as
turbines to sense flow velocity, or sensors which employ other characteristics such
as magnetic flow meters, to sense the mass flow currently entering each injection
well.
[0098]        Figure 8C illustrates a system design which anticipates and exploits the
change in field injectivity using selective pipe sizing and automated chokes, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.              In one aspect of this
embodiment, the flow lines are oversized compared to the initial steam flow rate
through the system.      In other words, the initial low injectivity of the rock formation,
rather than the pipe size, limits the flow rate. As the injectivity increases, the larger
pipes can accordingly handle an increased flow rate. As discussed above, such an
increased flow rate can allow solar generators to produce a sufficient daily flow rate
of steam by delivering a large quantity of steam during daylight hours and no or low
                                            -35-

quantities of steam at night.     The automated valves can be used to individually
control the flow rate to individual wells so as to improve the uniformity of the steam
delivery process, even in a steamflood (as opposed to cyclic) operation.            The
automated valves can also be employed to support any of a variety of other suitable
variations.
[0099]        From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of
the present technology have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but
that various modifications may be made without deviating from the present
technology. For example, while the heater 120 is shown as including a single burner
111, in other embodiments, the heater 110 can include multiple burners.              For
example, a multi-burner configuration can include a larger burner and a smaller
burner so as to accommodate deeper turndown. A potentially significant feature of a
multi-burner configuration is the ability to maintain of a particular profile of NOx
generation during turndown operation.       The first and second heater portions 113,
114 are illustrated as single pass, folded tubes.      In other embodiments, either or
both of these heater portions can include any of a variety of parallel, serial, and/or
other suitable heat exchanger arrangements.         For example, the first portion 113
and/or the second portion 114 can, in at least some embodiments, have two or more
parallel sections, each of which can separately deliver heated water to the solar
collector 120.    This arrangement can reduce the overall pressure drop of water
passing through the heater 110 and will typically include appropriate valving and/or
other management features to properly balance the flows.                In still further
embodiments, the heater 110 can include more than two individually controllable
portions. In any of these embodiments, the heat exchange surfaces of the heater
portions are appropriately sized to enhance efficiency at low cost. The heater 110
can be a direct-fired boiler, a heat recovery steam generator (e.g., capturing waste
from a fuel-fired turbine, and/or a heat recovery steam generator with auxiliary fuel
firing (e.g., a "duct burner" or "supplemental firing" arrangement).    Aspects of the
technology disclosed herein can be applied to "once through" steam generators,
and/or to recirculating steam generators, depending on the embodiment.            Other
arrangements for heaters, solar collectors, and associated components are
disclosed in the following published PCT applications, assigned to the assignee of
                                           -36-

the present application, and incorporated herein by reference: W02010/088632;
W02012/006255; W02012/006257; W02012/006258; and W02012/128877.
[00100]      Certain features have not been shown or described in detail herein for
purposes of clarity. Such features include but are not limited to additional isolation
valves at the solar collector 120 (to allow the solar collector to be drained for
maintenance), and/or other suitable maintenance and non-maintenance features.
[00101]      Certain aspect of the technology described in the context of the particular
embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments.             For example,
particular embodiments can operate in fewer than all of the modes described above,
and/or can include different valve arrangements.         The exhaust gas recirculation
feature can be eliminated in some embodiments. Features discussed in the context of
any of the Figures (e.g., Figures 7A-7E) may be combined in a suitable manner with
features disclosed in other Figures (e.g., Figures 2A-2E).      Particular aspects of the
technology are embodied in steam production systems and associated methods for
producing steam.        Other embodiments include methods of making, configuring,
adjusting and/or changing such systems, as well as methods for instructing these
techniques.    Further, while advantages associated with certain embodiments of the
technology have been described in the context of those embodiments, other
embodiments may also exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need
necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the present technology.
Accordingly, the present disclosure and associated technology can encompass other
embodiments not expressly shown or described herein.
[00102]      Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.
[00103]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                            -37-

                                            CLAIMS
I/We claim:
         1.      A method for enhanced oil recovery, comprising:
        controlling a flow of water through a solar collector and a fuel-fired heater by:
                 directing at least one portion of the flow through the solar collector and
                         the fuel-fired heater in a first sequence;
                 directing the at least one portion or a different portion of the flow
                         through the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in a second
                         sequence different than the first sequence;
        as a result of heating the flow of water at the solar collector and the fuel-fired
                 heater, forming steam from the flow of water; and
         injecting the steam into an oil-bearing formation.
        2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the fuel-fired heater       is only a single
fuel-fired heater.
        3.       The method of claim 1 wherein directing at least one portion includes
directing the at least one portion through the solar collector and subsequently
through the fuel-fired heater in the first sequence, and wherein directing the at least
one portion or a different portion includes directing the at least one portion or a
different portion through the fuel-fired heater and subsequently through the solar
collector in the second sequence.
        4.       The method of claim 3 wherein the first sequence precedes the second
sequence.
        5.       The method of claim 3 wherein the second sequence precedes the first
sequence.
                                               -38-

        6.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        during a first process, directing heat from the solar collector and the fuel-fired
               heater to the oil-bearing formation, wherein the solar collector receives
               a first level of solar insolation during the first process; and
        during a second process, directing heat from the solar collector to a thermal
               storage medium to cool the solar collector and heat the thermal
               storage     medium, wherein the solar collector receives no solar
               insolation or a second level of solar insolation less than the first during
               the second process.
        7.     The method of claim 1 wherein the fuel-fired heater includes a heater
outlet, a fuel-fired burner, a burner exhaust, a first heater portion positioned in
thermal communication with exhaust gases passing along an exhaust gas path from
the burner to the burner exhaust, and a second heater portion positioned in thermal
communication with the exhaust gases passing from the burner to the burner
exhaust, with the first portion positioned downstream of the second portion along the
exhaust gas path, and wherein controlling the flow of water includes:
        operating in a first mode by directing at least some of the flow through the first
               and second heater portions and bypassing the solar collector;
        operating in a second mode by directing a first portion of the flow through the
               first heater portion, directing a second portion of the flow through the
               solar collector, and directing both the first and second portions of the
               flow through the second heater portion;
        operating in a third mode by directing a third portion of the flow through the
               first heater portion, then the solar collector, and then the second heater
               portion; and
        operating in a fourth mode by directing a fourth portion of the flow through the
first heater portion and then the solar collector, directing a fifth portion of the flow
exiting the solar collector through the second heater portion, and directing a sixth
portion of the flow exiting the solar collector to bypass the second heater portion.8.
        A steam production system, comprising:
        a water source;
                                               -39-

a water inlet coupled to the water source to receive water from the water
         source;
a solar collector that includes a collector inlet, a collector outlet, and a plurality
         of solar concentrators positioned to heat water passing from the
         collector inlet to the collector outlet;
a heater that includes a heater outlet, a fuel-fired burner, a burner exhaust, a
         first heater portion positioned in thermal communication with exhaust
         gases passing along an exhaust gas path from the burner to the burner
         exhaust,     and    a  second     heater  portion   positioned  in  thermal
         communication with the exhaust gases passing from the burner to the
         burner exhaust, with the first portion positioned downstream of the
         second portion along the exhaust gas path;
a first valve positioned between the water inlet, the first heater portion and the
         collector inlet;
a second valve positioned between the first valve, the first heater portion and
         the collector inlet;
a third valve positioned between the first heater portion and the second
         heater portion;
a fourth valve positioned between the collector outlet and the heater outlet;
         and
a controller programmed with instructions that, when executed, direct the
         system to operate in each of:
         a first mode with the first, second and fourth valves open and the third
                 valve closed to direct at least some water through the first and
                 second heater portions and bypass the solar collector;
         a second mode with the first and third valves open and the second and
                 fourth valves closed to direct a first portion of water through the
                 first heater portion, direct a second portion of water through the
                 solar collector, and direct both the first and second portions of
                 water through the second heater portion;
         a third mode with the first, third and fourth valves closed and the
                 second valve open to direct a third portion of the water through
                                        -40-

                         the first heater portion, then the solar collector, and then the
                         second heater portion; and
                 a fourth mode with the first and third valves closed and the second and
                         fourth valves open to direct a fourth portion of the water through
                         the first heater portion and then the solar collector, direct a fifth
                         portion of water exiting the solar collector through the second
                         heater portion, and direct a sixth portion of water exiting the
                         solar collector to bypass the second heater portion.
         9.      The system of claim 8, further comprising a steam outlet coupled to the
solar collector and the heater, and wherein the steam outlet is connected to an
oilfield injection well.
         10.     An enhanced oil recovery system, comprising:
         a water source;
         a solar collector that includes a collector inlet, a collector outlet, and a plurality
                 of solar concentrators positioned to heat water passing from the
                 collector inlet to the collector outlet;
         a fuel-fired heater;
         a steam outlet connected to an oilfield injection well;
         a water flow network coupled among the water source, the solar collector, the
                 heater and the steam outlet; and
         a controller operatively coupled to the water flow network and programmed
                 with instructions that, when executed:
                 direct at least one portion of the flow through the solar collector and the
                         fuel-fired heater in a first sequence; and
                 direct the at least one portion or a different portion of the flow through
                         the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in a second
                         sequence different than the first sequence.
         11.     The system of claim 10 wherein at least one of the sequences includes
at least a portion of the heater operating in series with the solar collector.
                                                -41-

        12.    The system of claim 10 wherein at least one of the sequences includes
at least a portion of the heater operating in parallel with the solar collector.
        13.    The system of claim 10 wherein at least one of the sequences includes
one portion of the heater operating in parallel with the solar collector and another
portion of the heater operating in series with the solar collector.
        14.    The system of claim 10 wherein the first and second sequences are
two of at least three sequences, and wherein at least one sequence includes at least
a portion of the heater operating in series with the solar collector, another sequence
includes at least a portion of the heater operating in parallel with the solar collector,
and yet another sequence includes one portion of the heater operating in parallel
with the solar collector and another portion of the heater operating in series with the
solar collector.
        15.    The system of claim 10 wherein the heater receives heat from a fuel
fired combustion turbine.
        16.    The system of claim 10 wherein the heater is part of a heat recovery
steam generator.
        17.    An enhanced oil recovery system, comprising:
       a water source;
       a solar collector that includes a collector inlet, a collector outlet, and a plurality
               of solar concentrators positioned to heat water passing from the
               collector inlet to the collector outlet;
       a fuel-fired heater;
       a thermal storage medium;
       a steam outlet connected to an oilfield injection well;
       a water flow network coupled among the water source, the solar collector, the
               heater, the thermal storage medium and the steam outlet; and
       a controller operatively coupled to the water flow network and programmed
               with instructions that, when executed:
                                              -42-

               during a first operational mode, direct heat from the solar collector and
                       the heater to heat water to steam and directs the steam to the
                       steam outlet, wherein the solar collector receives a first level of
                       solar insolation during the first operational mode; and
               during a second operational mode, direct heat from the solar collector
                       to the thermal storage medium to cool the solar collector and
                       heat the thermal storage medium, wherein the solar collector
                       receives no solar insolation or a second level of solar insolation
                       less than the first during the second operational mode.
        18.    The system of claim 17 wherein the first operational mode occurs
during midday and wherein the second operational mode occurs in the evening.
        19.    The system of claim 17 wherein the controller is programmed with
instructions that, when executed:
               direct at least one portion of the flow through the solar collector and the
                       fuel-fired heater in a first sequence; and
               direct the at least one portion or a different portion of the flow through
                       the solar collector and the fuel-fired heater in a second
                       sequence different than the first sequence.
        20.    The system of claim 17 wherein a line of the water flow network
connecting the heater to the solar collector is less than 1000 meters long.
        21.    The system of claim 20 wherein the line of the water flow network
connecting the heater to the solar collector is less than 100 meters long.
        22.    The system of claim 17 wherein the thermal storage medium includes
a liquid salt.
        23.    The system of claim 17 wherein the thermal storage medium includes
steam conduits positioned in concrete.
                                              -43-

       24.    The system of claim 17 wherein the thermal storage medium includes
a working fluid, and wherein the system includes a heat exchanger positioned to
place the working fluid in thermal communication with water in the water flow
network.
       25.    A method for enhanced oil recovery, comprising:
       during a first operational mode, heating water to form steam using heat from
              a fuel-fired heater and a solar collector, the solar collector receiving a
              first level of insolation during the first operational mode;
       during the first operational mode, directing the steam to an oilfield injection
              well; and
       during a second operational mode directing heat from the solar collector to a
              thermal storage medium to cool the solar collector and heat the
              thermal storage medium,           the solar collector receiving no solar
              insolation or a second level of solar insolation less than the first during
              the second operational mode.
       26.    The method of claim 25, further comprising diverting heat received
from the solar collector away from the oilfield injection well and into the thermal
storage medium during the second operational mode.
       27.    The method of claim 25, further comprising entering the second
operational mode in response to time of day.
       28.    The method of claim 27, further comprising entering the second
operational mode in the morning.
       29.    The method of claim 27, further comprising entering the second
operational mode in the evening.
       30.    The method of claim 25, further comprising entering the second
operational mode in response to an indication corresponding to steam quality being
below a threshold level.
                                             -44-

       31.     The method of claim 25, further comprising entering the second
operational mode in response to an indication corresponding to solar insolation at
the solar collector being below a threshold level.
       32.     A method for configuring an oil field recovery system, comprising:
       producing steam using a combination of concentrated solar radiation and
               heat provided by a fuel-fired heater;
       injecting the steam into the oilfield; and
       in response to a change in steam requirements for one portion of the oilfield
               relative to another, moving the fuel fired heater.
       33.     The method of claim 32 wherein producing steam includes producing
steam from a plurality of solar fields, with individual solar fields coupled to
corresponding individual fuel-fired heaters.
       34.     The method of claim 32, further comprising:
        positioning a solar field that produces the steam at a distance from a first
               injection well at the oilfield, and coupling the solar field to the first
               injection well to direct steam to the first injection well; and
       subsequent to positioning the solar field, coupling the solar field to a second
               injection well located between the first injection well and the solar field
               to direct steam to the second injection well.
       35.     The method of claim 34, further comprising drilling a second injection
well subsequent to positioning the solar field.
       36.     A method for injecting steam into an oil-bearing formation, comprising:
       during a first period of time, when the oil-bearing formation has a first
               injectivity, obtaining heat for steam injected into the formation in part
               from concentrated solar energy and in part from fuel-fired energy, with
               a ratio of a delivery rate of the concentrated solar energy to the fuel
               fired energy having a first value; and
                                             -45-

          during a second period of time, subsequent to the first period of time, when
                the oil-bearing formation has a second injectivity higher than the first
                injectivity, obtaining heat for injected steam in part from concentrated
                solar energy and in part from fuel-fired energy, with the ratio of the
                delivery rate of the concentrated solar energy to the fuel-fired energy
                having a second value, the second level being higher than the first
                value.
         37.    The method of claim 36, further comprising choking a flow of steam
into the oil-bearing formation during both the first and second periods of time.
         38.    The method of claim 36, further comprising increasing a number of
active solar concentrators during the second period of time relative to the first period
of time.
         39.    The method of claim 36, further comprising reducing an amount of
fuel-fired heat generated during the second period of time relative to the first period
of time.
         40.    The method of claim 36, further comprising increasing a daily variation
in the delivery rate from a first value during the first period of time, to a second value
during the second period of time.
         41.    The method of claim 36, further comprising changing the ratio from the
first value to the second value in response to the change from the first injectivity to
the second injectivity.
                                             -46-

                                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                               <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                     130
                         Injection               131      Injection                  Injection      131         Injection           131         Injection
                                                                        132
                                                                                                                                                                           100
                                                                              156
                   123                                                                                                      110
                                           122
                                                                                                 155e
                                                                               154d                                               115     117
                                                                      155d
                                                                                                        114
       120
                                                                                                                                                               112
                                                                                                                                                                   143c
                                                                        124    116
                                                          143b                                                                                               113                 1/17
                                                                                     111
157a                                                   144b           144
                                                                                     144a                                                                                  154
                                                                                                                                                            154c
                                                                                                                            155c                            154b
                                                                                     152                                    155b                            154a
             121                                                        157
                                     125
                                                        143
                                                                                                                                            155a                   155
                                                                      143a                                                  140
                                                                                                                                    153
                                                                                                                       141
                                                       150
                                                                                                          142
                                                         151                  Water Source
       FIG. 1

                                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>                                     <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                     130
                         Injection               131      Injection                  Injection            131         Injection             131             Injection
                                                                        132                                                                                                                 100
                                                                              156
                   123                                                                                                            110
                                           122
                                                                                                     155e
                                                                               154d                                                115            117
                                                                      155d
                                                                                                            114
       120                                                                                                                                                                     112
                                                                                                      F                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                               143c
                                                                        124    116
                                                          143b
                                                                                                                                                                        113
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2/17
                                                                                     111                                                          F
157a                                                   144b           144
                                                                                     144a                                                               F
                                                                                                            F                                                           154c               154
                                                                                                                                  155c                                  154b
                                                                                     152                                          155b                                  154a
             121                                                        157
                                     125
                                                        143                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                   F
                                                                                                 F                                140                 155a                      155
                                                                      143a                                                                  153
                                                                                                                             141
                                                        150
                                                                                                                142
                                                         151                  Water Source
         FIG. 2A

                                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>                                    <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                             130
                                                                                            Injection
                         Injection
                          Injection               131       Injection
                                                             Injection                     Injection           131            Injection
                                                                                                                             Injection            131              Injection
                                                                                                                                                                  Injection
                                                                           132
                                                                                                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                    156
                   123                                                                                                                    110
                                            122
                                                        B                                                   155e
                                                                         155d        154d                                                               117
                                                                                                                                           115
                                                                                                                   114
       120                                                                                     C                                                                                      112
                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                      143c
                                                                            124      116
                                                            143b                                                                                                                113
                                                            B                                                                                                                                             3/17
157a                                                                     144               111                                                         C
                                                        144b
                                                                                           144a                                                               A                                    154
                                                                                                                                     B                                         154c
                         B                                                      B     B                                  155c                                                  154b
                                                                                                                                           155b
                                                                                           152                                             B                                   154a
             121                                                           157
                                      125                                                                                                                                         A
                                                         143                                                             F
                                                                                                                                                           155a                        155
                                                                                                        F                                 140
                                                                         143a                                                                    153
                                                                                                                                   141
                                                         150
                                                                                                                     142
                                                            151                     Water Source
        FIG. 2B

                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                                  <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                            130
                                                                                           Injection
                           Injection
                            Injection               131       Injection
                                                               Injection                  Injection           131              Injection          131              Injection
                                                                                                                                                                  Injection
                                                                             132
                                                                                                                              Injection
                                                                                                                                                                                                  100
                                                                                   156
                     123                                                                                                                   110
                                              122
                                                          F                                                155e
                                                                           155d     154d                                                                117
                                                                                                                                            115
                                                                                                                  114
       120                                                                                     F                                                                                      112
                                                                                                                  F
                                                                                                                                                                                      143c
                                                                             124    116
                                                              143b                                                                                                              113
                                                               F                                                                                                                                        4/17
157a                                                                       144            111
                                                          144b
                                                                                          144a                                                                F                                   154
                                                                                                                  F                    F                                       154c
                           F                                                                                                               155c                                154b
                                                                                          152                             F                155b                                154a
               121                                                           157
                                        125                                                                                                                                       F
                                                           143
                                                                                                       F                                                  155a                         155
                                                                           143a                                                            140
                                                                                                                                                  153
                                                                                                                                    141
                                                           150
                                                                                                                    142
                                                              151                  Water Source
             FIG. 2C

                                                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                                 <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                     130
                         Injection               131       Injection                  Injection     131             Injection              131             Injection
                                                                         132
                                                                                                                                                                                            100
                                                                               156
                   123                                                                                                              110
                                           122
                                                       F                                          155e
                                                                       155d     154d                                                             117
                                                                                                                                     115
                                                                          B           B                  114
       120                                                                                 C                                                                              112
                                                                                                                                                                              143c
                                                                         124    116
                                                           143b                       A
                                                                                                                                                                        113
                                                            A                                                                                                                                     5/17
157a                                                   144b            144            111
                                                                                      144a                                                             F                                   154
                                                                                                         A                      A                                      154c
                         F                                                                                                          155c                               154b
                                                                                      152                                                                              154a
                                                                                                                F                   155b
             121                                                         157
                                     125
                                                        143                                                                                                              F
                                                                                                                                                   155a                       155
                                                                       143a                                                         140
                                                                                                                                           153
                                                                                                                           141
                                                       150
                                                                                                          142
                                                           151                 Water Source
             FIG. 2D

                                                                                                                    <removed-apn>                          <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                              130
300                                              Injection                        Injection
                     Injection                                                                                   Injection          Injection
                            Injection                   Injection                        Injection                      Injection          Injection
      120
                                                                          100 Bar       Steam        114
                                                                                   Bar 80%
                                                                               100 80%     Steam
                                                                                                                                                        110
                                                                                                                                                                    6/17
                                                                                                                                                       113
                                         Flow
                                        Flow   depends
                                             depends     on
                                                     on available solar
                                          available solar
                                                                                                                        354a
                                                                                                           140
                                                                        Water
                                                 151                  Water Source
                                                                       Source
            FIG. 3

                                                                                                <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                                  400
      120
                                                                                  141
                                                                                                                    440
                                                                                          A           142
                                                                                                            454a
                                                       461                                                                          7/17
                                   G
                                                                              I                              551
                                                                      454c
                                                                                                                   470
                      410                                Steam Drum
                             414
                                                                                                B
        Combustion
                                                   F
                                                                 E
462
                                                             Evaporator                                      413
            Turbine                    Superheat                              D   Economizer
                                                                                                                           130
                                                                      C
                                                       460                                     454b                 464
                            463                                           H
FIG. 4

                                                                                    <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
          300.00
          250.00
          200.00
                                                                                                    Solar Collect or
          150.00
                                                                                                    Cumulat ive
                                                                                                    Heat er            8/17
MMBTUhr
          100.00
           50.00
             __
                   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
                                                           FIG. 5

                                        kW/m2
                 0   100   200   300    400   500   600   700   800   900
          5.75
          6.07
          6.38
          6.70
          7.02
          7.33
          7.65
          7.97
          8.28
          8.60
          8.92
          9.23
          9.55
          9.87
         10.18
         10.50
         10.82
         11.13
         11.45
         11.77
         12.08
         12.40
FIG. 6   12.72
         13.03
         13.35
         13.67
         13.98
         14.30
         14.62
         14.93
         15.25
         15.57
         15.88
         16.20
         16.52
         16.83
         17.15
         17.47
         17.78
                                                                            <removed-apn>
         18.10
         18.42
         18.73
         19.05
         19.37
         19.68
         20.00
                                                                            <removed-date>
                                 9/17

                                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                     130                    700a
                          Injection    131      Injection                 Injection     131         Injection   131         Injection
                                                                 132                                                                                                          140
                                                                                                                                                 110
                                                                           776
                                                                                              L2                                                                142                141
                                                                                      156
         123       122                 124                                                                                              115         117
                                              772a                     754f                                           114
                                                            754g                 772b                                                                               112
120                                                                                                                                                                 143c
                                      143b                             772            116
                                                            L1                                                                                                  113
      157a                                                                                    111
                                                             771                            144a
                                      144b
                                                                                                                                                                                         10/17
                                                                                                                        754e                                    152b
                   125   152d                               770
             121                                                   152c
                                                                                                                                          754d
                                                                                                                                                                    754a
                                             Tank
                                                                                                                                                                    153
                                         754b                                                                                             143                        152a
                           754c
                                                                                                                                              143a
                                                                                                                                 150
                                                                                                                                                           Water
                                                                                                                                                           Source
                                                       FIG. 7A                                                                                151

                                                            <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                                             Solar Field
                                                             Distributed
                                                             Heater Source or
                                                             Heat Storage
                                                                       Solar Field
        Solar Field   Oil Field with Steam        Central
                            Injection             Heater
                                                  Source
                                                                                                        11/17
Distributed                                                                          Distributed
Heater Source or                                                                     Heater Source or
Heat Storage                                                                         Heat Storage
                              FIG. 7B

                                                                                                <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                                                                                               700c
        Injection             Injection      Injection                Injection   Injection
                                                                                                                 140
                                                                                                110   142             141
                                                                      156
120                                                      754f
                                          754h
                         775                             754i
                       754g                                                                                                       12/17
                                                                776
      152d
       770              Tank
                                                                                              150
                                                                                                      Water
                    FIG. 7C                                                                           Source

                                                                                                         <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                                                                                                                            700d
      Injection             Injection      Injection                Injection          Injection
                                                                                                                                  140
                                                                                                   110            142              141
                                                                    156                                     114
120                                                    754f
                                        754h
                                                                                                                             113
                       775                             754i
                     754g                                                                                           754j
                                                                                                                                                  13/17
                                                                                754l        754k
                                                              776
                                                                                                   754e
                                                                                                                           754a
      770             Tank
                                                                                                         754d
                                                                                                   150
                                                                                                                  Water
                  FIG. 7D                                                                                         Source

                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
                                                                                                                              700e
      Injection             Injection      Injection                Injection            Injection
                                                                                                                                    140
                                                                                                     110            142              141
                                                                    156                                       114
120                                                    754f
                                        754h
                                                                                                                               113
                       775                             754i
                     754g                                                                                             754j
                                                                                754l          754k                                                  14/17
                                                              776
                                                                                       754m
                                                                                                     754e                    754a
      770             Tank
                                                                                                           754d
                                                                                                     150
                                                                                                                    Water
                                                                                                                    Source
                  FIG. 7E

                                                                                       <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                 Stream Drive with Main Line Steam Splitters
                                         and Fixed Chokes at Wells
Solar Steam
 Generator
                                                                                                              Fixed  Well
                                                                                                             chokes Heads
H2O                    Steam Out
                                                                                              2" Flow Line
 In
      Mirrors                8" Main                                                          2" Flow Line
                                                  Manifold
                                                                                              2" Flow Line
                                                                                                                            15/17
                                            6" Branch              6" Branch
                                                                                              2" Flow Line
                             10" Main
  Gas Fired Steam                      Steam            10" Main        Steam
    Generator                                                                              Up to 1000 BPD Steam per Well
                                       Splitter                         Splitter
                                            6" Branch                          6" Branch
                   8" Main
                                                  Manifold                          Manifold
                FIG. 8A

                                                                                       <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                      Cyclic Steam Injection with Main Line Steam Splitters
                               and Automatic Chokes at Manifold
Solar Steam                                                                             Automatic chokes
 Generator
                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                    Well
                                                                                                    3" Flow Line
                                                                                                                   Heads
H2O                     Steam Out
 In                                                                                          M
                             8" Main
      Mirrors                                                                                       3" Flow Line
                                                  Manifold
                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                           16/17
                                            8" Branch          8" Branch                            3" Flow Line
                             12" Main
                                                                                             M
 Gas Fired Steam                       Steam        12" Main        Steam
   Generator                           Splitter                     Splitter
                                                                                                    3" Flow Line
                                            8" Branch                      8" Branch
                                                                                           Up to 2000 BPD Steam per Well
                   8" Main
                                                  Manifold                      Manifold
                FIG. 8B

                                                                                          <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                             Variable Rate Injection with Main Line Steam Splitters and
                                           Automatic Chokes at Manifold
Solar Steam                                                                                Automatic chokes
 Generator
                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                       Well
                                                                                                       4" Flow Line
                                                                                                                      Heads
H2O                     Steam Out
 In                                                                                             M
                                8" Main
      Mirrors                                                                                          4" Flow Line
                                                     Manifold
                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                              17/17
                                               8" Branch          8" Branch                            4" Flow Line
                                 12" Main
                                                                                                M
 Gas Fired Steam                          Steam        12" Main        Steam
   Generator                              Splitter                     Splitter
                                                                                                       4" Flow Line
                                               8" Branch                      8" Branch
                                                                                              Up to 3000 BPD Steam per Well
                   8" Main
                                                     Manifold                      Manifold
                FIG. 8C

