APPLICATION CURRENCY CODE FOR DYNAMIC CURRENCY
CONVERSION TRANSACTIONS WITH CONTACTLESS CONSUMER
TRANSACTION PAYMENT DEVICE
ABSTRACT
        A method comprising receiving (206) data including an account identifier for an account
associated with a contactless payment device (CCPTPD) to conduct a transaction in a first
currency; parsing the received data to determine (208) whether the received data includes an
application currency code for the account associated with the CCPTPD; determining (214) that
the transaction is eligible for dynamic currency conversion based on the application currency
code when the received data includes the application currency code; obtaining (216) a
conversion factor for converting the first currency into a second currency; converting the
amount from the first currency to the second currency using the conversion factor to form a total
transaction amount in the second currency; and processing the transaction using an authorization
request message to request authorization for the transaction, the authorization request message
including the total transaction amount in the second currency and a cryptogram generated based
on the application currency code.

                                                   1
   APPLICATION CURRENCY CODE FOR DYNAMIC CURRENCY CONVERSION
  TRANSACTIONS WITH CONTACTLESS CONSUMER TRANSACTION PAYMENT
                                              DEVICE
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This Application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which
was filed on 19 July 2017 and which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2015201705, which was filed on 2 April 2015 and which is a divisional of Australian Patent
Application No. 2009279757, which entered the National Phase on 8 February 2011 from
International (PCT) Application No. PCT/US2009/052755, which was filed on 4 August 2009
and which claimed priority from both US Application No. 12/534809 which was filed on 3
August 2009 and from US Application No. 61/086109 which was filed on 4 August 2008, all of
which applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
                                          BACKGROUND
        Consumer portable transaction payment devices (e.g., credit cards, debit cards, charge
cards and various other types of cards) are used by consumers to make purchases or to obtain
cash. These transactions generally take place at a merchant's premises using an electronic Point
of Service terminal (POS), and during the transaction the POST communicates with other
parties to obtain authorization for the transaction, and to initiate the transfer of funds from the
customer to the merchant. Similar transactions take place using computer equipment without
the intermediary of a merchant.
        With increasing international travel, globalization of business and electronic commerce,
cardholders sometimes wish to conduct transactions in a foreign country using their card. In this
case the merchant would normally use a particular currency, which, in the case of a retailer,
would generally be the local currency. The credit card would also have a currency, which
would generally be the local currency of its issuing bank. Conventionally, for transactions
where the two currencies are different, the currency of the transaction would be the currency of
the merchant, and would appear as such, together with an exchange rate on the credit card
statement. Dynamic currency conversion (DCC) allows a transaction of this kind to be
conducted in the currency of the card, by detecting the card currency and applying a currency
conversion at the time of the transaction, so that the cardholder sees the value of the transaction
in the currency of the card, at that time. For example, a POS device reads data encoded in a
magstripe of a consumer's credit card. The data being read would include an identifier of an
account issued by an issuer to an account holder number. From the identifier there would be
extracted the Bank Identification Number (BIN) of the account. The POS, or as peripheral
device in communication with the PS, associate the BIN with a currency, take this to be the
currency of the card and conduct the sale/purchase in the card currency.

           A standards body know as EMVCo manages, maintains and enhances the EMV@
   Integrated Circuit Card Specifications for chip-based payment cards and acceptance devices,
   including point of sale (POS) terminals and ATMs. EMVCo also establishes and administers
   testing and approval processes to evaluate compliance with the EMV Specifications. EMV@ is a
 5 global standard for credit and debit payment cards based on chip card technology. As of QI
   2008, there were more than 730 million EMV compliant chip-based payment cards in use
   worldwide. EMVCo manages, maintains and enhances the EMV@ Integrated Circuit Card
   Specifications for chip-based payment cards and acceptance devices, including point of sale
   (POS) terminals and ATMs. EMVCo also establishes and administers testing and approval
 o processes to evaluate compliance with the EMV Specifications. A primary goal of EMVCo and
   the EMV Specifications is to help facilitate global interoperability and compatibility of chip
   based payment cards and acceptance devices. This objective extends to new types of payment
   devices as well, including contactless payment and mobile payment.
           EMVCo has a standard addressing a transactional currency translation function for chip
 5 based payment cards (e.g., portable consumer transaction devices such as credit cards, debit
   cards, prepaid cards, etc.) A portion of that standard is set forth in EMV Integrated Circuit Card
   Specifications For Payment Systems, Book 3, Application Specification, Version 4.1, May 2004,
   which is incorporated herein by reference.
           The portable consumer transaction device has encoded therein data that includes an
 0 Application Currency Code (ACC). The portable consumer transaction device can be used in a
   transaction on an account issued to an account holder by an issuer. The transaction is conducted
   on the account between the account holder and a merchant. The account is presented by the
   consumer to the merchant. The merchant, in order to conduct the transaction, has a Point of
   Service terminal (POS) that reads the encoded data from the portable consumer transaction
25 device. The data being read includes the ACC. Typically, the data is read from a magnetic strip
   or from the contacts of a chip of a 'smart card'. This EMV standard for the use of the ACC,
   however, does not address use of the ACC in any contactless payment transactional mode.
                                              SUMMARY
           In one implementation, the invention provides a contactless payment card, and method of
30 use, involving a wireless interrogation of the contactless payment card by a merchant.         The
   merchant wirelessly retrieves an Application Currency Code (ACC) and an account from the
   card. The data read from the card can be read into a predetermined format. The ACC can then be
   used by the merchant to retrieve a currency conversation rate, plus any applicable extra currency
   related charged, to conduct a transaction on the account in a currency preferred by the account

   holder as opposed to the local currency of the merchant. The merchant can offer the consumer
   the option to pay either in the local currency or in the currency corresponding o to the ACC. A
   receipt, which can be given to the consumer, shows funds to be withdrawn from the account for
   the transaction.
 5         In another implementation, data is wirelessly reading from a consumer's smart card and
   then parsed to derive the consumer's account upon which a transaction is to be conducted
   between a merchant and an Application Currency Code (ACC) corresponding to a second
   currency. The amount of the transaction is converted from the merchant's local currency to the
   second currency and included in an authorization request sent to the merchant's acquirer.       A
 0 receipt for the amount of the transaction in the second currency is rendered if the transaction is
   authorized.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 depicts an exemplary environment for the provision of a service by a merchant
   to a consumer in authorizing and remunerating electronic payment by the consumer use of a
 5 Contactless Consumer Portable Transaction Payment Device (CCPTPD) in conducting a
   financial transaction with the merchant (i.e.; a credit card transaction) within an exemplary
   payment processing system.
           Figure 2 is a flow chart of an exemplary process, which can be practiced in the
   environment of Figure 1, in which a Dynamic Currency Conversion (DCC) can be offered to
 o conduct a contactless payment at Point-of-Sale terminals (POS) and/or Automatic Teller
   Machines (ATM).
           Figure 3 is a block level diagram that depicts an exemplary payment system.
           FIG. 4 illustrates exemplary implementations of a CCPTPD.
           FIG. 5 illustrates systems housed within an interchange center to provide online and
25 offline transaction processing; and
           FIG. 6 illustrates another view of the components of FIG. 4.
           Implementations will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below
   when taken in conjunction with the drawings, in which like elements bear like reference
   numerals.
30                                          DESCRIPTION
           Implementations of this invention facilitate a contactless payment at a Point of Service
   terminal (POS) environment between a merchant and a consumer who presents a Contactless
   Consumer Portable Transaction Payment Device (CCPTPD) (e.g., Mastercard (PayPass), Visa
   Inc. (PayWave), etc.) CCPTPD have passive contactless transponders that can be used for the

   contactless payment transactions. In addition, contactless payment has been implemented by
   integrating near field communications (NFC) into mobile communication devices or by using a
   Bluetooth proprietary feature of the mobile communication devices. The contactless payment
   systems have been used with various communication standards. NFC is an open standard
 5 communication system that was designed by Philips and Sony Corporation, and enhanced by the
   NFC forum. NFC uses Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) based technology and must
   comply with various standards and operating protocol/frequency for RFID.
           Implementations enable the financial transaction between the merchant and the consumer
   to be conducted in any currency is local to the Point of Service terminal (POS) of the merchant,
 o even though the consumer may have been issued an account corresponding to the CCPTPD by
   an issuer at a location that has a different currency from that of the local POS.        Enabled
   implementations include at least the local POS currencies, issuer currencies, and/or consumer
   preferred currencies shown in the Currency Table in Appendix A.
           An Application Currency Code (ACC) associated with the CCPTPD allows, incident to
 5 the contactless transaction, the merchant to be so informed so as to conduct the transaction in a
   particular currency that corresponds to the ACC.
           Although the Visa PayWave TM service uses data elements as defined by the EMV
   standards body, the PayWave TM contactless payment transaction need not be a standard EMV
   transaction but rather can use the technology disclosed herein.      Accordingly, this disclosure
 o improves upon the EMV standard so that the Application Currency Code (ACC) can be used in
   contactless payments, such as in a Visa contactless payment. To do so, the CCPTPD (i.e., a
   payment card representing an account issued by an issuer to the card holder) contains data
   representing the ACC. Merchants and Acquirers can take advantage of this data element to
   perform Dynamic Current Conversion (DCC) processing..
25         DCC (Dynamic Currency Conversion) is a service offered at Point-of-Sale terminals
   (POS) and ATMs in which cardholders may elect to have a transaction converted to their card
   billing currency instead of making a payment in a merchant's local currency. For contactless
   transaction involving a chip card, there is an opportunity to identify candidate transactions for
   the DCC system..
30         The DCC service offered at Point-of-Sale terminals (POS)            and ATMs can be
   implemented as a cross-border assessment so as to allow identification of cross-border
   transaction fees that can be itemized and charged to individual entities (e.g., cardholders
   merchant, acquirers, issuers, etc.) in the payment network for providing currency conversion
   processing of their requested transactions. Further, rebates may be provided to entities (e.g.,
                                                   14

   merchants or acquirers) that perform their own currency conversion for transactions before
   submission for processing. This arrangement of "per-use" cross-border transaction processing
   fees may encourage elimination or reduction of cumulative post transaction (end-of-cycle file to
   billing) assessments that are common in the payment-by-card industry.
 5         The cross-border transaction handling system may be configured to perform and manage
   calculations of cross-border assessments and billing. The cross-border transaction handling
   system may perform cross-border assessment calculations, and bill members on a periodic basis
   (e.g., daily or weekly). The cross-border transaction handling system may, for example, create
   three billing events: Issuer Assessment, Acquirer Assessment, and Acquirer Credit. The latter
 o billing event corresponds to a rebate to acquirers who do not perform their own currency
   conversion.
           In one implement, a Dynamic Currency Conversion (DCC) can be offered at Point-of
   Sale terminals (POS) and Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) in which holders of an account
   corresponding to a CCPTPD may elect to have a transaction amount converted to their card
 5 billing currency instead of using the local currency.       In this implementation, the DCC, or a
   Cardholder Preferred Currency (CPC), is used in a financial transaction with a merchant in
   which the holder of a Contactless Consumer Portable Transaction Payment Device (CCPTPD),
   for instance, a wireless debit card, prepaid card, credit card, stored value card, etc., has the cost
   of the transaction being converted to their local currency when making a payment in a foreign
 0 currency. The DCC works by allowing foreign merchants to calculate a bill for a contactless transaction
   that is charged in a preferred currency of the cardholder making a purchase, rather than the local
   currency of the merchant. DCC occurs during a contactless transaction at the point of sale (POS), where
   an exchange rate is applied that has been determined by technology partners through the merchant's
   bank. The DCC service, in this implementation, is offered to merchants by technology providers
25 through the merchants' banks. As the DCC service is applied at the point of sale, neither the
   transaction hander (i.e., Visa, Mastercard, etc.) nor the issuer of the account of the card being
   used sets a rate for the DCC service As such, this implementation uses the DCC as a way of
   transferring the foreign exchange margin that the issuer normally makes when a cardholder uses
   the card's account outside of the issuer's country. Accordingly, the transfer is not made by the
30 issuer but rather by the merchant's acquirer or the merchant in the country where the transaction
   the account takes place. The margin, in this implementation, depends on what the Acquirer /
   Merchant in that country applies. This implementation provides the benefit that the cardholder
   will know up front, at the time of the contactless transaction, what rate is being applied and what
   the cardholder is to pay for the transaction in their home currency. Thus, the cardholder need not

   wait till receiving an account statement to find out what rate the issuer applied for the
   transaction.
            For example, a cardholder from the United States that is traveling in Europe presents a
   credit card to a merchant as payment for a product/service priced in Euros. The credit card
 5 details are read wirelessly, in less than one (1) second, in a contactless payment transaction
   captured on the point of sale device (POS). The wirelessly read data identifies that the card is a
   USA issued card. The cashier asks the cardholder to pay in US dollars and the POS converts the
   euro amount into US dollars (based on a margined daily rate). The cardholder signs a receipt that
   shows the euro amount, rate of exchange and the US dollar amount. The service guarantees that
 0 this exact US dollar amount will be debited to the cardholder account, and the exact euro amount
   will be credited to the merchant's account, to the benefit of the merchant.
            In yet another implementation, a holder of an account corresponding to a CCPTPD may
   elect to have a transaction amount converted to their card billing currency instead of using the
   local currency.    Where a predetermined process identifies that the holder has a contactless
 5 payment card that is a candidate for a DCC transaction, the POS determines the billing currency,
   and determines that the billing currency is different from the local currency at the location of the
   merchant's POS. Upon election by the holder to pay in the billing currency of the account of the
   CCPTPD, the transaction proceeds and can be concluded by the rendering of a paper receipt
   detailing all charges to the account as above.
 0          In another implementation, to determine the currency of a CCPTP, a selected part of the
   card number, for instance the BIN number, parsed to determine a country code. The country
   code can be mapped to a database to establish the appropriate currency code. For example a
   country code for France could be mapped to the Euro. More complicated situations could also
   arise, for instance where a British bank issues a card for a US dollar account.
25 [0035] The financial side of the transaction may be managed by the POS, or by a server
   belonging to a bank or issuer of the CCPTP. The POS or the server may collect particular data
   related to DCC transactions, and store it in a DCC statistical data packet for transmission to an
   entity who will process DCC-related data such as a bank or the issuer of the CCPTP or another
   party.
30          In yet another implementation, a total amount is calculated for one or more goods or
   services to be purchased by an account holder from a merchant in a transaction conducted on an
   account issued to the consumer by an issuer. The total amount is calculated in a local currency
   amount to arrive at a total amount in a first currency that is a local currency of the merchant.
   Data is wirelessly read from memory in a Contactless Consumer Portable Transaction Payment
                                                     C,

   Device (CCPTPD).       There is derived, at least in part from the data read from the CCPTPD,
   account information that includes an Application Currency Code (ACC) corresponding to a
   second currency and an identifier for the account upon which the transaction is to be conducted.
   It is then determined from the parsed data whether the account information identifies a domestic
 5 account or international account. When the account information identifies a domestic account,
   an authorization request message is formed so as to include the total amount in the first currency.
   When the account information identifies an international account, it is determining whether the
   second currency is supported for dynamic currency conversion. When the second currency is not
   supported for dynamic currency conversion, the authorization request message is formed so as to
 o include the total amount in the first currency.     When the second currency is supported for
   dynamic currency conversion, there is obtained a conversion factor that includes a conversion
   rate from the first currency to the second currency plus any additional currency conversion
   charges, and the conversion factor is applied to the total amount in the first currency to derive a
   total amount in the second currency. In order to obtain the consumer's acceptance of the second
 5 currency amount for the purchase of the transaction, there is rendered a display including the
   total amount in the second currency.     Input can then be received (either from the consumer
   and/or the merchant) indicating whether the total amount in the second currency for the
   transaction is acceptable by the consumer. When the input indicates that the total amount in the
   second currency for the transaction is not acceptable by the consumer, the authorization request
 0 message is formed so as to include the total amount in the first currency.         When the input
   indicates that the total amount in the second currency for the transaction is acceptable by the
   consumer, the authorization request message is formed so as to include the total amount in the
   second currency. After the authorization request message is formed, it is sent, for delivery to a
   logical address for an acquirer for the merchant, along with information sufficient to identify the
25 account upon which the transaction is to be conducted.           Thereafter, in response to the
   authorization request message, an authorization response is received authorizing the transaction.
   After receiving the authorization response authorizing the transaction, a receipt is rendered so as
   to include funds to be withdrawn from the account for the transaction.
            In the foregoing implementation, the conversion factor can include a conversion rate
30 from the first currency to the second currency plus any additional currency conversion charges.
   The conversion factor is then applied to the total amount in the first currency to derive a total
   amount in the second currency comprise a dynamic currency conversion process. The foregoing
   implementation can be implemented, either in whole or in part, by a Point of Service terminal
   (POS), an automated teller machine (ATM), or equipment associated with telephone or Internet
                                                    '7

   sales. The wirelessly reading data in any of the forgoing implementations can be accomplished
   by telecommunications apparatus such as near field communication (NFC) protocol and an RFID
   enabled card reader, Bluetooth communications apparatus, Wi-Fi communications apparatus,
   infrared communications apparatus, RFID communications apparatus, and combinations of
 5 these. Also, software executed by hardware to accomplish any of the foregoing implementation
   can be contained on computer readable medium, where the software is encoded in a hardware
   storage device.
            FIG. 1 depicts an exemplary process for the provision of a service by a merchant to a
   consumer in authorizing and remunerating electronic payment by the consumer use of a
 o CCPTPD 198 in conducting a financial transaction with the merchant (i.e.; a credit card
   transaction). The diagram of FIG. 1 depicts an exemplary process 100 of a particular financial
   transaction system. By way of explanation for the nomenclature of reference numerals used in
   the Figures and described in the specification, a lower case letter in parenthesis is intended to
   mean an integer variable having a value from 1 to the capital case of the lower case letter, which
 5 value can be large (i.e., approaching infinity). Thus '(b)' is intended to mean that the integer 'b'
   can have a value from 1 to B, and '(c)' is intended to mean that the integer 'c' can have a value
   from I to C, etc. As such, drawing elements 104, 106, 108, 110, 180, 182, and 184 in FIG. 1 are
   illustrated with a block, but indicate one or more elements can be present. For example, Issuer (j)
   104 is one of a possible plurality of issuers, where j may range from 1 to a large integer.
 0          Account holder (p) 108 presents an electronic payment device (i.e.; a credit card) to a
   Merchant (n) 110 (wireless communications at step 156) as tender for a financial transaction
   such as a purchase of goods.        Those of skill in the art will recognize that other financial
   transactions and instruments other than credit cards may also be used, including, but not limited
   to, a prepaid card and a debit card.       For purposes of illustration and explanation, however,
25 reference will be made to a credit card.
            As part of the transaction, the Account holder's 108 CCPTPD is a contactless payment
   device, which can be a credit card, debit card, prepaid card, cellular telephone, Personal Digital
   Assistant (PDA), etc. The CCPTPD is read contactlessly by a contactless reader operated by the
   merchant (n) 110, whereupon account information is read from the CCPTPD and a request for
30 authorization is transmitted to the Merchant's 110 Acquirer (i) 106 (at step 162). Each Acquirer
   (i) 106 is a financial organization that processes credit card transactions for businesses, for
   example merchants, and is licensed as a member of a transaction handler (TH) 102 such as a
   credit card association (i.e., Visa Inc., MasterCard, etc.)       As such, each Acquirer (i) 106
   establishes a financial relationship with one or more Merchants (n) 110.

           The Acquirer (i) 106 transmits the account information to the TH 102 (at step 170), who
   in turn routes the request to the account holder's issuing bank, or Issuer (j) 104 (at step 176).
   The Issuer (j) 104 returns authorization information to the TH 102 (at step 174) who returns the
   information to the Merchant (n) 110 through the Acquirer (i) 106 (by steps 168 and 166). The
 5 Merchant (n) 110 now knowing whether the Issuer's (j) 104 credit card account is valid and
   supports a sufficient credit balance, may complete the transaction and the Account holder (p) 108
   in turn receives goods and/or services in exchange (at step 158). Most credit card associations
   instruct merchants that, after receiving authorization, the detailed credit card account information
   obtained from the point of sale magnetic stripe scanner must be deleted.
 0         To reconcile the financial transactions and provide for remuneration, information about
   the transaction is provided by the Merchant (n) 110 to Acquirer (i) 106 (at step 162), who in turn
   routes the transaction data to the TH 102 (at step 170) who then provides the transaction data to
   the appropriate Issuer (j) 104 (at step 176). The Issuer (j) 104 then provides funding for the
   transaction to the TH 102 (at step 174) through a settlement bank (not shown). The funds are
 5 then forwarded to the Merchant's (n) 110 Acquirer (i) 106 (at step 168) who in turn pays the
   Merchant (n) 110 for the transaction conducted at step 162 less a merchant discount, if
   applicable.   The Issuer (j) 104, then bills the Account holder (p) 108 (at step 150), and the
   Account holder (p) 108 pays the Issuer 104 (at step 152), with possible interest or fees.
           Each of the Issuer (j) 104, Merchants (n) 110, Acquirer (i) 106 and the TH 102 may have
 o access to information resources having one or more of the following databases: transaction
   database (z) 182, merchant database (y) 184, or account database (w) 180. These databases can
   be connected by a network, internet, virtual private network, or by other means known to those
   skilled in the art. Moreover, not every participant must necessarily have access to any or all of
   the databases. Each database can assign read, write, and query permissions as appropriate to the
25 various participants. For example, a Merchant (n) 110 have read access to the account database
   (w) 180 and the Issuer (j) may have read and write access.
           The transaction database (z) 182 is designed to store some or all of the transaction data
   originating at the Merchants (n) 110 that use a payment device for each transaction conducted
   between an Account holder (p) 108 and the Merchant (n) 110. The transaction data can include
30 information associated with the account of an Account holder (p) 108, date, time, and location
   among other more specific information including the amount of the transaction. The database can
   be searched using account information, date and time (or within proximity thereof), or by any
   other field stored in the database.

            The Merchant database (y) 184 is designed to store information about each Merchant (n)
   110. The Merchant database (y) can contain information such as the unique identification of each
   Merchant (n) 110, an identifier for each point of sale device in use by the Merchant (n) 110, and
   location of the Merchant (n) 110.
 5          The account database (w) 180 is designed to store account information for payment
   devices associated with Account holder (p). The account database (w) 180 can store part or all of
   an account number, unique encryption key, account information, account name. The information
   from the account database (w) 180 can be associated with information from the transaction
   database (z) 182.
 0          An Account holder (p) 108 initiates a transaction with a Merchant (n) 110 by presenting a
   CCPTPD at step 156 to the Merchant (n) 110. The card is typically presented at the Point Of
   Service terminal (POS) at which data thereon in read contactlessly by a radio wave reader.
   Certain transaction information is transmitted from the POS in route to the Merchant's (n) 110
   Acquirer (i) 106 and only some of the information may contain sensitive information. The
 5 transaction information can include account information, account name, transaction balance,
   transaction time, transaction date, and transaction location. Sensitive information includes
   information such account number and account holder name that identify and associate a
   particular account with a particular account holder. This transaction information may be
   transmitted via a less secure communication medium. In addition, a transmission of transaction
 o data may occur with weak or no encryption between two or more points from the point of origin,
   such as the point of sale device at the Merchant (n) 110, and the ultimate destination, such as the
   Acquirer (i) 106. These points can include, without limitation, from the CCPTPD reader to the
   POS, the POS at the Merchant (n) 110 and a network router or computer that is connected to a
   network but is housed and maintained by the Merchant (n) 110 and between the Merchant (n)
25 110 and the Acquirer (i) 106. The communication channel could be Ethernet, wireless internet,
   satellite, infrared transmission, or other known communication protocols. Some or all of the
   transmission may also be stored for record keeping, archival or data mining purposes with little
   or no encryption. For example, the Merchant (n) 110 may store transaction data, including
   certain account information in the Merchant's (n) 110 accounts on file database for reuse later.
30          Furthermore, many POS systems include a certain amount of transaction validation.
   Transaction validation is used to detect common errors, inconsistencies, and other transaction
   related problems before communicating with the Acquirer (i) 106. Such transaction validation
   can include confirming the payment type, routing information, certain aspects of the account
   number (like length and unique identifiers). These validation routines rely upon specific
                                                     10n

   formatting criteria such as the fact that a valid account number is of a given length comprised of
   numbers zero through nine. Any deviation from these rules may cause the system to
   preemptively terminate a transaction and request the Account holder (p) 108 retry their payment
   device. In such situations, encrypting some or all of the transaction data using standard
 5 encryption techniques would cause the transaction validation tests to fail. For example, using
   standard encryption techniques on an account number will change the character type, may
   change the length, may alter required values (such as affecting numbers indicating card type or
   routing information).
           In this process, transaction information is retrieved from the POS at a Merchant (n) 106.
 0 The transaction information is comprised of account information together with other information
   about the transaction itself: time, date, location, value, etc. Certain of the transaction information
   is considered sensitive information including, without limitation, account number, credit card
   verification number, and account name.
           Referring now to method 200 in Figure 2, an identification of a CCPTPD is made as to
 5 whether it is a candidate for a DCC transaction, and if so, then a transaction flow is illustrated
   where DCC is processed.          A determination is made as to the billing currency, and a
   determination is made as to whether the billing currency is different from the local currency at
   the location of the merchant's POS.        ATMs and Merchant POS devices that support EMV
   processing can request the Application Currency Code (ACC) from a CCPTPD that is complaint
 0 with EMV standards and can use the ACC to initiate DCC candidacy processing. A POS may
   locally identify candidate transactions by reading the ACC from the CCPTPD during a
   contactless interrogation thereof incident to conducting a transaction. A comparison can then be
   made between the ACC and the currency of the transaction. Alternatively, the ACC can be
   compared to a list of currencies where Dynamic Current Conversion (DCC) is supported (e.g.,
25 see the table of currencies in Appendix A.) Where the currency of the CCPTPD is the same as
   the transaction currency, or not supported by the DCC process, the transaction may proceed
   using the local transaction currency and no reference to DCC need be made.
           For DCC candidate transactions, or for CCPTPD where the ACC is not present, the
   transaction can use the standard EMV functions to obtain the Primary Account Number (PAN).
30 The POS may also have to apply a currency conversation factor to the floor limit used to
   determine when online authorization is desirable for the CCPTPD. The EMV process can use be
   to convert the currency and the amount and these can be displayed to the cardholder.                He
   transaction currency code and the mount can be part of a generated cryptogram and can be
   included in the authorization/clearing along with all cryptogram fields.
                                                      11

            At steps 202 through 206 in method 200 of FIG. 2, an EMV transaction is initiated and if
   the Integrated Circuit Card (ICC) of the CCPTPD requires terminal resident data to initiate the
   financial transaction, it will communicate a list of data elements using an EMV-specified data
   element list (e.g., the EMV Processing Options Data Object List (PDOL)). Step 206 illustrates a
 5 step in which wireless communication of data from a CCPTPD to an interrogating card reader
   occurs, where the card reader is in communication with the POS.
            At step 208, if the Application Currency Code (EMV Tag '9F42') is found in the data
   read contactlessly from the CCPTPD, method 200 moves to step 210 at which the POS may
   determine if the transaction is DCC eligible at step 214 and, if so, then method 200 proceeds to
 o step 216 at which a calculation is made as to the DCC offer. If the transaction is not DCC
   eligible, the method 200 moves to step 212 at which the POS may continue with the current
   EMV transaction. Also at step 221, if the Application Currency Code (EMV Tag '9F42') has not
   read in the data contactlessly from the CCPTPD, then the POS may use alternate means to
   determine if the transaction is DCC eligible. For instance, the Primary Account Number (PAN)
 5 can be used by an application to determine DCC eligibility.
            At step 216 where a calculation is made as to the DCC offer, if the transaction is eligible
   for DCC, however identified, the transaction will use the same means to obtain a currency
   conversion rate as is the case for standard non-smart card (i.e., non-chip) logic. The holder of the
   CCPTPD should then be offered the DCC option according to payment system rules.
 0          At step 218, a query is made as to whether the DCC option is not elected by the holder of
   the CCPTPD. If not elected, then the method 200 moves to step 224 at which the current EMV
   transaction can continue in the local currency. Otherwise, method 200 moves to step 220 at
   which the POS checks whether the amount of the financial transaction, an Authorized Code
   (EMV Tag '9F02') and/or a Transaction Currency Code (EMV Tag '5F2A'), were requested in
25 the EMV's list (e.g. the PDOL).        If the amount and/or the transaction currency were not
   requested in the EMV's list, method 200 moves to step 224 where the POS should continue with
   the amount and currency adjusted according to the DCC selection. If the amount and/or the
   transaction currency were requested in the EMV's list, method 200 moves to step 222 at which
   the current EMV transaction should be terminated and the transaction restarted, using the same
30 Application Identifier (AID), with the amount and currency adjusted according to the DCC
   selection, preferably without intervention by the holder of the CCPTPD.         The restarted EMV
   application should follow the normal EMV transaction flow and need not involve any further
   DCC activity.

           Method 200 is suitable for alternative implementations that allow DCC to be performed
   only to as to not involve the cardholder or the merchant until after it has been determined
   whether DCC is available, what the currency conversion rate is, or whether any other status
   conditions exist that would prohibit the DCC from transaction from being completed. In this
 5 manner, DCC transactions can be controlled, the number of improper transactions can be
   minimized, and cardholders and merchants are not involved with processes until after it is
   determined that DCC can occur. As such, such implementations of method 200 can prevent DCC
   from being initiated when not allowed because of the issuing bank is not a participating bank,
   where a multicurrency processor is unavailable for processing DCC transactions, where the point
 0 of sale terminal or merchant is temporarily suspended from processing eligible direct currency
   transactions, or in other suitable situations. Thus, situations are minimized where a cardholder is
   erroneously presented with the option of a DCC transaction, or where a cardholder provides
   incorrect data regarding the types of currency that are available for DCC transactions, thus
   avoiding unnecessary processing of such incorrect data.
 5         Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary implementation of a CCPTPD as described above, and
   shows front and rear views (400A, 400B).          Images may be displayed on both sides of the
   CCPTPD 402, with an image 408A on the front view 400A being either the same as or different
   from an image 408B on the rear view 400B. In this illustration, the front view 400A can also
   display custom indicia.
 0         FIG. 4 also shows exemplary implementations of a data encoding area of the CCPTPD
   402. The data encoding area may include an optional shielding element, which allows desired
   electromagnetic, optical, or radiative signals to penetrate while protecting the data encoding area
   from physical abuse or damage. The CCPTPD 402 may optionally have areas outside of the data
   encoding area shielded from physical abuse or otherwise acceptable forms of electromagnetic
25 radiation. Some of the acceptable signals that are allowed to penetrate the shielding and may
   include, but are not limited to, signals accompanying a magnetic field, RFID signals, IrDA
   signals, visible light, invisible light, modulated laser, and/or modulated RF communication
   signals. By way of example and not by way of limitation, a selective shielding element may
   comprise a clear plastic shield, conformal coatings, an opaque plastic shield, or a clear thin film,
30 depending on the implementation of the data encoding area.
           Non-limiting examples of the data encoding area are shown at reference numeral 400,
   and include an antenna and/or transceiver 420 for conduct financial transactions contactlessly.
   Also in FIG. 4 is an exemplary implementation of the data encoding area shown as an antenna
   and/or transceiver 420. The antenna 420 may include commonly used loop inductors such as the
                                                     112

   one shown 420A or in those shown in related ISO standards for RF-readable smart cards. With
   such an interface, account data may be translated, modulated and transmitted in a manner
   acceptable by an RF contactless merchant POS terminal, a 802.11 Wi-Fi or WiMax network, or
   by a cellular or RF communications network.
 5         Optionally, CCPRPD 402 may also include a magnetic stripe assembly 410 and electrical
   contacts 440, The magnetic stripe assembly 410 may comprise, in one implementation 410A, a
   reprogrammable magnetic stripe 410B that accepts data and/or commands from a processor and
   formats and renders that data into a form on a magnetic stripe that is readable by conventional
   merchant magnetic stripe-reading point of sale (POS) terminals. In this manner, the processor
 o may program a particular account for use in a transaction as a function of user input selecting the
   account.    Alternatively, the processor may erase the magnetic stripe of the assembly 410,
   rendering the card useless in the event of its loss or theft. In one implementation shown 410A,
   the magnetic stripe assembly 410B at least partially slidably moves 410C into and out of an
   assembly of the CCPTPD 402 (partial view shown), allowing the CCPTPD 402 to conduct a
 5 financial transaction at a point of sale terminal that includes a magnetic stripe reader.
           External contacts 440 are yet another alternative implementation of the data encoding
   area shown in FIG. 4. With the CCPTPD 402 possessing physical contacts such as an array of
   conductive pads or shapes 240A, the CCPTPD may be placed in physical contact with a
   merchant's POS, and the external contacts 440 may establish connectivity to the merchant's
 o financial processing system.       The processor may relay account-related information to the
   merchant POS terminal through the contact interface, thereby allowing the CCPTPD 402 to be
   utilized with the large number of preexisting merchant POS terminals.
           Payment Processing System
           The Payment System illustrated in Figure 3 depicts an exemplary process which can be
25 used by the foregoing Implementations with respective modifications as described therein.
           A transaction includes participation from different entities that are a component of a
   payment processing system 300 including an issuer 302, a transaction handler 304, such as a
   credit card company, an acquirer 306, a merchant 308, or a user 310 such as an account holder
   and/or consumer. The acquirer 306 and the issuer 302 can communicate through the transaction
30 handler 304. Merchant 308 will be a person or entity that sells goods or services, and will more
   preferably be one or more transit systems as described in the above implementations. Merchant
   308 include, for instance, a bus company, a subway system, a light rail system, a private or
   municipal transit system, and the like. Merchant 308 may utilize at least one Point-of-Service
   (POS) terminal that can communicate with the acquirer 306, the transaction handler 304, or the
                                                      14A

   issuer 302. Thus, the POS terminal is in operative communication with the payment processing
   system 300.    The POS terminal may be at a turnstile of a subway entry or exit point, on a
   commuter train or terminal thereof, on a light rail train or terminal thereof, on a city bus or
   terminal thereof, on a water taxi or terminal thereof, and the like.
 5         Typically, a transaction begins with the user 310, such as an account holder or a
   consumer, presenting a Contactless Consumer Portable Transaction Payment Device (CCPTPD)
   312 to merchant 308 to initiate an exchange for a good or service.         The CCPTPD 312 will
   preferably be a contactless bank card as described in the above implementations. The CCPTPD
   312 may include a volatile or non-volatile memory to store information such as the account
 o number or an account holder's name.
           Merchant 308 may use the POS terminal to obtain account information, such as an
   account number, from the portable consumer device. The CCPTPD 312 may interface with the
   POS terminal using a mechanism that will include a contactless system using a radio frequency
   and/or magnetic field recognition system, but may additionally be adapted for use in a contact
 5 system such as by a magnetic stripe reader. The POS terminal sends a transaction authorization
   request to the issuer 302 of the portable consumer device. Alternatively, or in combination, the
   CCPTPD 312 may communicate with the issuer 302, the transaction handler 304, or the acquirer
   306.
           The issuer 302 may authorize the transaction using the transaction handler 304.       The
 o transaction handler 304 may also clear the transaction. Authorization includes the issuer 302, or
   the transaction handler 304 on behalf of the issuer 302, authorizing the transaction in connection
   with the issuer's 302 instructions such as through the use of business rules. The business rules
   could include instructions or guidelines from the transaction handler 304, the user 310, merchant
   308, the acquirer 306, the issuer 302, a financial institution, or combinations thereof. The
25 transaction handler 304 may maintain a log or history of authorized transactions.            Once
   approved, merchant 308 will record the authorization, allowing the user 310 to receive the good
   or service.
           Merchant 308 may, at discrete periods, such as the end of the day, submit a list of
   authorized transactions to the acquirer 306 or other components of the payment processing
30 system 300. The transaction handler 304 may compare the submitted authorized transaction list
   with its own log of authorized transactions. If a match is found, the transaction handler 304 may
   route authorization transaction amount requests from the corresponding acquirer 306 to the
   corresponding issuer 302 involved in each transaction.        Once the acquirer 306 receives the
   payment of the authorized transaction amount from the issuer 302, it can forward the payment to

   merchant 308 less any transaction costs, such as fees. If the transaction involves a debit or pre
   paid card, the acquirer 306 may choose not to wait for the initial payment prior to paying the
   merchant 308.
            There may be intermittent steps in the foregoing process, some of which may occur
 5 simultaneously.    For example, the acquirer 306 can initiate the clearing and settling process,
   which can result in payment to the acquirer 306 for the amount of the transaction. The acquirer
   306 may request from the transaction handler 304 that the transaction be cleared and settled.
   Clearing includes the exchange of financial information between the issuer 302 and the acquirer
   306 and settlement includes the exchange of funds. The transaction handler 304 can provide
 o services in connection with settlement of the transaction.       The settlement of a transaction
   includes depositing an amount of the transaction settlement from a settlement house, such as a
   settlement bank, which the transaction handler 304 typically chooses, into a clearinghouse, such
   as a clearing bank, that the acquirer 306 typically chooses. The issuer 302 deposits the same
   from a clearinghouse, such as a clearing bank, which the issuer 302 typically chooses into the
 5 settlement house. Thus, a typical transaction involves various entities to request, authorize, and
   fulfill processing the transaction.
            In FIGS. 1 and 3 illustrates exemplary telecommunications networks that each may make
   use of any suitable telecommunications network and may involve different hardware, different
   software and/or different protocols then those discussed below. These global telecommunications
 o networks supports purchase and cash transactions using any bankcard, travel and entertainment
   cards, and other private label and proprietary cards. The network also supports ATM transactions
   for other networks, transactions using paper checks, transactions using smart cards and
   transactions using other financial instruments.
            These transactions are processed through the network's authorization, clearing and
25 settlement services. Authorization is when an issuer approves or declines a sales transaction
   before a purchase is finalized or cash is dispersed. Clearing is when a transaction is delivered
   from an acquirer to an issuer for posting to the customer's account. Settlement is the process of
   calculating and determining the net financial position of each member for all transactions that are
   cleared. The actual exchange of funds is a separate process.
30          Transactions can be authorized, cleared and settled as either a dual message or a single
   message transaction. A dual message transaction is sent twice-the first time with only
   information needed for an authorization decision, an again later with additional information for
   clearing and settlement. A single message transaction is sent once for authorization and contains
                                                    16C

   clearing and settlement information as well. Typically, authorization, clearing and settlement all
   occur on-line.
           Figures 1 and 3 include one or more transaction handlers 102, 304, access points 130,
   132, acquirers 106/306, and issuers 104/302. Other entities such as drawee banks and third party
 5 authorizing agents may also connect to the network through an access point. An interchange
   center is a data processing center that may be located anywhere in the world. In one embodiment,
   there are two in the United States and one each in the United Kingdom and in Japan. Each
   interchange center houses the computer system that performs the network transaction processing.
   The interchange center serves as the control point for the telecommunication facilities of the
 o network, which comprise high speed leased lines or satellite connections based on IBM SNA
   protocol. Preferable, the communication lines that connect an interchange center (transaction
   handlers 102, 304) to remote entities use dedicated high-bandwidth telephone circuits or satellite
   connections based on the IBM SNA-LU0 communication protocol. Messages are sent over these
   lines using any suitable implementation of the ISO 8583 standard.
 5         Access points 130, 132 are typically made up of small computer systems located at a
   processing center that interfaces between the center's host computer and the interchange center
   The access point facilitates the transmission of messages and files between the host and the
   interchange center supporting the authorization, clearing and settlement of transaction.
   Telecommunication links between the acquirer (q) and its access point, and between the access
 o point and issuer (i) 104 are typically local links within a center and use a proprietary message
   format as preferred by the center.
           A data processing center (such as is located within an acquirer, issuer, or other entity)
   houses processing systems that support merchant and business locations and maintains customer
   data and billing systems. Preferably, each processing center is linked to one or two interchange
25 centers. Processors are connected to the closest interchange, and if the network experiences
   interruptions, the network automatically routes transactions to a secondary interchange center.
   Each interchange center is also linked to all of the other interchange centers. This linking enables
   processing centers to communicate with each other through one or more interchange centers.
   Also, processing centers can access the networks of other programs through the interchange
30 center. Further, the network ensures that all links have multiple backups. The connection from
   one point of the network to another is not usually a fixed link; instead, the interchange center
   chooses the best possible path at the time of any given transmission. Rerouting around any faulty
   link occurs automatically.
                                                     17

           FIG. 5 illustrates systems 540 housed within an interchange center to provide on-line and
   off-line transaction processing. For dual message transaction, authorization system 542 provides
   authorization. System 542 supports on-line and off-line functions, and its file includes internal
   systems tables, a customer database and a merchant central file. The on-line functions of system
 5 542 support dual message authorization processing. This processing involves routing, cardholder
   and card verification and stand-in processing, and other functions such as file maintenance. Off
   line functions including reporting, billing, and generating recovery bulletins. Reporting includes
   authorization reports, exception file and advice file reports, POS reports and billing reports. A
   bridge from system 542 to system 546 makes it possible for members using system 542 to
 o communicate with members using system 546 and access the SMS gateways to outside
   networks.
           Clearing and settlement system 544 clears and settles previously authorized dual message
   transactions. Operating six days a week on a global basis, system 544 collects financial and non
   financial information and distributes reports between members It also calculates fees, charges
 5 and settlement totals and produces reports to help with reconciliation. A bridge forms an
   interchange between system 544 processing centers and system 546 processing centers.
           Single message system 546 processes full financial transactions. System 546 can also
   process dual message authorization and clearing transactions, and communicates with system
   542 using a bridge and accesses outside networks as required. System 546 processes Visa, Plus
 o Interlink and other card transactions. The SMS files comprise internal system tables that control
   system access and processing, and the cardholder database, which contains files of cardholder
   data used for PIN verification and stand-in processing authorization. System 546 on-line
   functions perform real-time cardholder transaction processing and exception processing for
   authorization as well as full financial transactions. System 546 also accumulates reconciliation
25 and settlement totals. System 546 off-line functions process settlement and funds transfer
   requests and provide settlement and activities reporting. Settlement service 548 consolidates the
   settlement functions of system 544 and 546, including Interlink, into a single service for all
   products and services. Clearing continues to be performed separately by system 544 and system
   546.
30         FIG. 6 illustrates another view of components of Figures 1 and 3 as a telecommunications
   network 900. Integrated payment system 650 is the primary system for processing all on-line
   authorization and financial request transactions. System 650 reports both dual message and
   single message processing. In both cases, settlement occurs separately. The three main software

   components are the common interface function 652, authorization system 542 and single
   message system 546.
           Common interface function 652 determines the processing required for each message
   received at an interchange center. It chooses the appropriate routing, based on the source of the
 5 message (system 542, 544 or 546), the type of processing request and the processing network.
   This component performs initial message editing, and, when necessary, parses the message and
   ensures that the content complies with basic message construction rules. Common interface
   function 652 routes messages to their system 542 or system 546 destinations.
           Various terms may be used herein, which are to be understood according to the following
 0 descriptions 1 through 8.
            1.     Acceptance point device includes a device capable of communicating with a
   payment device, where the acceptance point device can include a Point of Device (POS) device,
   a smartcard, a payment card such as a credit or debit card with a magnetic strip and without a
   microprocessor, a keychain device such as the SPEEDPASS@ commercially available from
 5 ExxonMobil@ Corporation, a cellular phone, personal digital assistant (PDA), a pager, a security
   card, an access card, a smart media, a transponder, personal computer (PC), tablet PC, handheld
   specialized reader, set-top box, electronic cash register (ECR), automated teller machine (ATM),
   virtual cash register (VCR), kiosk, security system, or access system.
           2.      Account holder or user includes any person or entity with an account and/or a
 o payment device associated with an account, where the account is within a payment system.
           3.      Issuer includes any entity that issues one or more accounts and/or payment
   devices.
           4.      Merchant includes any entity that supports an acceptance point device.
           5.      Participant includes any user, person, entity, charitable organization, machine,
25 hardware, software, merchant or business who accesses and uses the system of the invention,
   such as any consumer (such as primary member and supplementary member of an aggregate
   consumer account), retailer, manufacturer, and third-party provider, and any subset, group or
   combination thereof.
           6.      Redemption includes obtaining a reward using any portion of points, coupons,
30 cash, foreign currency, gift, negotiable instruments, or securities;
           7.      Reward includes any discount, credit, good, service, package, event, experience
   (such as wine tasting, dining, travel), or any other item.
           8.      Payment device includes a card, smartcard, ordinary credit or debit cards (with a
   magnetic strip and without a microprocessor), a keychain device (such as the SPEEDPASSTM
                                                     1Q

  service commercially available from Exxon-Mobil Corporation), cellular phone, personal digital
  assistant (PDA), pager, payment card, security card, access card, smart media, or transponder,
  where each payment device can include a loyalty module with a computer chip with dedicated
  hardware, software, embedded software, or any combination thereof that is used to perform
5 actions associated with a loyalty program.
          The steps of a method, process, or algorithm described in connection with the
  implementations disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module
  executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. The various steps or acts in a method or
  process may be performed in the order shown, or may be performed in another order.
o Additionally, one or more process or method steps may be omitted or one or more process or
  method steps may be added to the methods and processes. An additional step, block, or action
  may be added in the beginning, end, or intervening existing elements of the methods and
  processes.
          The above description of the disclosed implementations is provided to enable any person
5 of ordinary skill in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to these
  implementations will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art, and the generic
  principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations without departing from the
  spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus, the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the
  implementations shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the
o principles and novel features disclosed herein.
                                                  20

APPENDIX 'A': Currency Table:
              Albania, Leke   ALL Lek
              America (United
              States of       USD
              America),
              Dollars
              Afghanistan,    AFN
              Afghanis
              Argentina,      ARS
              Pesos
              Aruba, Guilders
              (also called    AWG
              Florins)
              Australia'      AUD
              Dollars             $
              Azerbaijan, New AZN MaH
              Manats
              Bahamas,        BSD
              Dollars
              Barbados,       BBD
              Dollars
              Belarus, Rubles BYR
              Belgium, Euro   EUR C
              Belize, Dollars BZD BZ$
              Bermuda,        BMD
              Dollars
              Bolivia,        BOB
              Bosnia and
              Herzegovina,    BAM K
              Convertible
              Marka
              Botswana,
                              BWP p
              Pulas

                                                  22
CLAIMS:
1.      A method comprising:
        receiving data including an account identifier for an account associated with a
contactless consumer portable transaction payment device (CCPTPD) to conduct a transaction
for an amount in a first currency;
        parsing the received data to determine whether the received data includes an application
currency code for the account associated with the CCPTPD;
        determining that the transaction is eligible for dynamic currency conversion based on the
application currency code when the received data includes the application currency code;
        obtaining a conversion factor for converting the first currency into a second currency
associated with the account;
        converting the amount from the first currency to the second currency using the
conversion factor to form a total transaction amount in the second currency; and
        processing the transaction using an authorization request message to request
authorization for the transaction, the authorization request message including the total
transaction amount in the second currency and a cryptogram generated based on the application
currency code.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the transaction is eligible for dynamic
currency conversion based on the application currency code includes comparing the application
currency code to a list of currencies that are eligible for dynamic currency conversion.
3.      The method of any of claims 1 to 2, wherein the received data was obtained via an
interaction between the CCPTPD and an acceptance device.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the data was obtained by the acceptance device using a
process that includes an application selection and transfer of data elements using a processing
options data list.
5.      The method of claim 4, wherein prior to processing the transaction using the
authorization request message, the acceptance device determines that a transaction currency
code was requested in the processing options data list, and the acceptance device restarts the
transaction using the second currency.

                                                 23
6.      The method of claim 4, wherein prior to processing the transaction using the
authorization request message, the acceptance device determines that a transaction amount was
requested in the processing options data list, and the acceptance device restarts the transaction
using an amount in the second currency.
7.      The method of any of claims 5 to 6, wherein the transaction is restarted using the same
application identifier from the application selection.
8.      The method of any of claims 5 to 7, wherein the transaction is restarted without user
intervention.
9.      The method of any of claims 3 to 8, wherein the acceptance device renders the total
transaction amount in the second currency on a display of the acceptance device.
10.     The method of any of claims 3 to 9, wherein the acceptance device is a point-of-sale
terminal, an automated teller machine, or equipment associated with telephone or Internet sales.
11.     The method of any of claims 3 to 10, wherein the interaction is performed using near
field communication, Bluetooth, WiFi, infrared, or radio frequency identification technology.
12.     The method of any of claims I to 11, wherein a user of the CCPTPD is provided with an
option to select between proceeding with the transaction in the second currency using dynamic
currency conversion, or proceeding with the transaction in the first currency.
13.     The method of any of claims I to 12, wherein the conversion factor includes an
exchange margin set by an acquirer associated with the transaction.
14.     The method of any of claims I to 12, wherein the conversion factor includes a
conversion rate from the first currency to the second currency plus additional currency
conversion charges.
15.     The method of any of claims I to 14, wherein the transaction is processed using a single
messaging system.

                                               24
16.     The method of any of claims I to 14, wherein the transaction is processed using a dual
messaging system.
17.     The method of any of claims I to 16, wherein the CCPTPD is in the form of a card or a
cellular telephone.
18.     The method of any of claims I to 17, wherein the transaction is conducted with a transit
operator.
19.     The method of any of claims I to 17, wherein the transaction is conducted with a
merchant that sells a good or a service.
20.     A computer system comprising:
        a processor; and
        a software module, which when executed by the processor, implements the method of
any of claims 1-19.
                                         Visa U.S.A. Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
