                                               Abstract
A method for preparing shellfish comprising providing a substantially flexible liquid-permeable
container having at least one open end; providing a plurality of shellfish in the container; closing the
or each open end of the container; and tensioning the container to compact the shellfish and
prevent the shellfish from opening. In preferred embodiments the flexible liquid-permeable
container comprises a mesh bag which is tensioned by twisting to keep the shellfish closed while
enabling the shellfish to be cooked, dried, and/or frozen in the bag. An apparatus adapted to
perform the method is also disclosed.

WO 2013/058667            PCT/NZ2012/000193
                    2/5
               2
                        3
        5
               Figure 3
               2
                        3
               Figure 4

   WO 2013/058667                                                          PCT/NZ2012/000193
                               SHELLFISH PREPARATION PROCESS
      Field of the Invention
      This invention relates to a method for preparing shellfish.          More particularly, the
  5   invention relates to a method of preparing bivalve shellfish for cooking intended to
      retain the meat and juice of the shellfish by enclosing and compressing the shellfish
     within a fluid-permeable bag.
      Background
10    Live bivalve shellfish, when heated, open their shells and expose the meat and juices
      inside. The degree to which the shell opens may vary from one shellfish to another,
      and this may lead to variations in the length of time required to cook each shellfish.
     This may result in an inconsistent product. The inconsistent opening of the shells may
     also result in a less desirable appearance of the product, in particular when sold in a
15    pre-packaged frozen state. Retention of fluids inside the shell during cooking may
     also be desirable for purposes of improved flavour and/or moisture.
     Several prior art shellfish processing techniques may help in keeping the shellfish
     closed during processing.
20
     United States Patent No. 6,010,397 discloses a container in which shellfish are placed
     and vibrated to compact them together. The shellfish are retained in the packed
     configuration in the container using a lid, and the shellfish are subsequently cooked in
     boiling seawater. The rigid basket and lid would require a specific number or volume of
25   shellfish to be placed within in order to keep the shellfish tightly packed. Furthermore,
     the use of a vibration apparatus, such as a vibrating bed, may increase the complexity
     and noise of the process.
     European Patent Application No. 0 398 667 discloses a wire basket in which mussels
30   are steamed. A weighted plate is placed on top of the mussels. The weight of the
     plate could make the placing and removal of the plate and moving of the basket
     awkward and/or dangerous. Furthermore, due to the shellfish being compressed from
     only one direction, in combination with variations in the size and/or alignment of the
     shellfish, there is a risk that a number of shellfish may still open at least partially during
35   cooking.
                                                   1

   WO 2013/058667                                                           PCT/NZ2012/000193
     New Zealand Patent Application 286,133 discloses a method of processing shellfish
     including vacuum sealing the shellfish in a bag before cooking and then freezing the
     sealed bag of shellfish. Before vacuum sealing, the shellfish must be dried, covered in
     oil, and dried again to remove moisture which can cause cracking and deterioration in
 5   the appearance of the shellfish during freezing. The vacuum within the bag constricts
     the shellfish to prevent opening during cooking.              However, creating the vacuum
     requires an airtight seal and a vacuum pump, introducing complexity and cost to the
     process. Furthermore, the vacuum bag prevents the cooking liquid or steam from
     directly contacting the shellfish during cooking, potentially leading to inconsistent
10   cooking thereof. That is, shellfish towards the outside of the vacuum bag cook faster
     than those towards the centre of the bag.
     Object of the Invention
     Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a method of preparation
15   which overcomes or at least ameliorates one of more of the disadvantages of the prior
     art, or to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
     Further objects of the invention will become apparent from the following description.
20   Summary of Invention
     Accordingly, in a first aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a method
     for preparing shellfish comprising:
              providing a substantially flexible liquid-permeable container having at least one
     open end;
25            providing a plurality of shellfish in the container;
              closing the or each open end of the container; and
              tensioning the container to compact the shellfish and prevent the shellfish from
     opening.
30   Preferably the shellfish are compacted to an extent which prevents the shellfish
     opening.
     Preferably the step of tensioning the container comprises twisting the container.
35   Preferably the step of twisting the container further comprises the step of inserting a
     substantially rigid elongate object through substantially opposing sides of the container
                                                      2

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
     at or adjacent the end of the container, in order to provide leverage to assist in the
     twisting.
     Alternatively the step of tensioning the container comprises inserting a first end of the
 5   container in or through an aperture, and pulling said first end so as to compact the
     shellfish towards an opposing second end of the container.
     Alternatively, the step of tensioning the container comprises displacing opposing ends
     of the container to stretch the container.
10
     Alternatively, the step of tensioning the container comprises dividing the plurality of
     shellfish between two halves of the container, and twisting each half of the container in
     opposing directions.
15   Preferably the shellfish are divided in the two halves during the twisting step using a
     divider placed about a central portion of the container.
     Preferably the divider comprises a pair of prongs mounted on a fixed surface.
20   Preferably the method further comprises the step of maintaining said tension in the
     container.
     Preferably the step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises inserting one
     end of the elongate object through a side of the container adjacent the shellfish
25   following twisting, to secure the twisted end of the container against untwisting.
     Alternatively, the step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises clamping
     the container closed between said first end and said shellfish compacted towards said
     second end.
30
     Alternatively the step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises rigidly
     clamping the opposing ends of the container to maintain said displacement.
     Alternatively the step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises applying a
35   stay to hold the container from untwisting.
                                                  3

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
      Preferably the stay is an elastic band.
      Preferably the container is a mesh bag.
  5   Preferably the mesh bag is made of plastic.
      Preferably, the method further comprises the step of cooking the shellfish by placing
      the container in a cooker.
10    Preferably the shellfish are cooked by steaming.
     Alternatively, the shellfish may be boiled.
      Preferably, the method further comprises the step of drying the shellfish by blow-drying
15   the shellfish within the container by way of heated, unheated or dehydrated air.
      Preferably the method further comprises the step of freezing the shellfish.
      Preferably, the step of freezing the shellfish comprises freezing the shellfish within the
20   container using a blast freezer.
      In a second aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in a shellfish
     processing apparatus, said apparatus comprising:
             holding means for releasably holding at least one end of a substantially flexible
25   container; and
             tensioning means for moving the holding means to tension said flexible
     container and compact a plurality of shellfish therein.
     Preferably the apparatus further comprises an aperture adapted to receive a first end of
30   said container, wherein the holding means is adapted to releasably hold the first end of
     the container and the tensioning means adapted to pull said holding means, whereby
     said aperture engages and compacts said shellfish towards an opposing second end of
     the container.
35   Alternatively the tensioning means comprises means for rotating said holding means to
     tension the container by twisting.
                                                   4

  WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
      Preferably the apparatus further comprises a divider adapted to receive and constrict a
     central portion of the container, wherein the holding means is adapted to hold opposite
     ends of the container and the tensioning means adapted to rotate the opposing ends in
  5  opposite directions.
     Preferably the divider comprises a pair of prongs mounted on a fixed surface.
     Preferably the means for tensioning said flexible container comprises one or more of
 10  an electric motor, lever, winch, screw, and/or linear actuator.
     Preferably the apparatus further comprises means for securing said flexible container
     to maintain said tension when said holding means is released.
     In a third aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in a shellfish processed
15   according to the method of the first aspect of the invention.
     In a fourth aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in a shellfish processing
     apparatus adapted to perform the method of the first aspect of the invention.
     Further aspects of the invention, which should be considered in all its novel aspects,
20   will become apparent from the following description.
     Drawing Description
     An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with
     reference to the drawings in which:
25   Figure 1 is a diagram of a first embodiment of a mesh bag which may be used to carry
     out the methods according to the invention;
     Figure 2 is a diagram the mesh bag of Figure 1 with shellfish inserted into the bag and
     the open ends of the bag both closed;
     Figure 3 is a diagram of the mesh bag of Figure 2 illustrating the step of twisting one
30   end of the bag in accordance with a first embodiment of the inventive method;
     Figure 4 is a diagram of the mesh bag of Figure 3, secured in the twisted position in a
     subsequent step of the first embodiment of the inventive method;
     Figure 5 is a diagram of a mesh bag, being tensioned through an aperture according to
     a second embodiment of the inventive method;
35   Figure 6 is a diagram of the mesh bag of Figure 2 illustrating the step of dividing the
    plurality of shellfish in accordance with a third embodiment of the inventive method;
                                                  5

  WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
     Figure 7 is the mesh bag of Figure 6 illustrating the step of placing a central portion of
     the mesh bag onto a divider in accordance with a subsequent step of the third
     embodiment of the inventive method;
     Figure 8 is a diagram of the mesh bag of Figure 7 illustrating the step of twisting the
  5  separated halves of the mesh bag about the divider in opposing directions in
     accordance with a subsequent step of the third embodiment of the inventive method;
     Figure 9 is a diagram of the mesh bag of Figure 8 illustrating the mesh bag in a
     compacted state following the twisting step, wherein each half of the bag engages and
     braces the other half to maintain the tension in the bag; and
10   Figure 10 is the mesh bag of Figure 8 illustrating an alternative means for maintaining
     the tension in the mesh bag using a stay.
     Detailed Description of the Drawings
     The present invention comprises a method of bivalve shellfish processing comprising
15   the use of a fluid- or liquid-permeable flexible bag which is tensioned to compress live
     shellfish contained therein, thereby substantially preventing the shellfish opening, in
     particular during cooking.
     The method is intended primarily for the processing of cockles (often referred to
20   generally as clams), but can also be applied in processing various other bivalve
     molluscs including, but not limited to, mussels, oysters, scallops, and other varieties of
     clams.
     Throughout the description like reference numerals will be used to refer to like features
25   in different embodiments.
     Referring first to Figure 1, there is illustrated a tubular or sleeve-like length of mesh
     material of the type commonly used to form Leno, raschel, extruded net bags, or
     similar.   The length of the material may be used to form a substantially flexible
30   container in the form of a mesh bag (1) as shown in Figures 2-4.           The bag (1) is
     substantially flexible, allowing the bag (1) to conform to the shape of inserted articles.
     The bag is also preferably porous or liquid-permeable, to allow for efficient cooking by
     either steaming or boiling, for example, and subsequent drying. That is, cooking liquid
     and/or gases easily pass through the bag to the shellfish, thereby facilitating even
35   cooking of all shellfish within the bag.
                                                   6

    WO 2013/058667                                                            PCT/NZ2012/000193
       The bag is preferably made of a plastic such as polyethylene or polypropylene. These
       materials are particularly advantageous as they are relatively strong, lightweight,
       flexible, and low in cost. However, other materials such as canvas, rope, or wire could
       alternatively be used without departing from the scope of the invention.
  5
       The mesh material may be provided in a single continuous tubular roll, which can be
       cut to a required length commensurate with the volume of shellfish to be contained.
      Alternatively the mesh material may be supplied in one or more predefined lengths,
       potentially having one end already closed to form a bag.
10
       Referring to Figure 2, there is illustrated the mesh bag (1) with live shellfish (2) inserted
       into the bag (1). Preferably, the bag (1) illustrated in Figure 1 is first closed at one end,
      the live shellfish inserted through an opposing open end, and the open end then closed
      to loosely retain the shellfish (2) within the bag (1).      Alternatively, the bag (1) may
15     initially be closed at one end, shellfish inserted through an opposing end, and the open
      end closed by twisting as described in further detail below. Other variations in these
      steps, such as closing both ends by twisting, are also possible without departing from
      the scope of the invention.
20    The bag (1) may be closed by clamping, applying an adhesive tape, tying a loose or
      open end of the bag in a knot, tying a length of string about the bag, pulling a
      drawstring, or by any other suitable method. However, the closing method or means
      preferably gathers or draws together the sides of the bag to avoid "corners" in the bag
      after twisting.
25
      Referring to Figure 3, there is illustrated the mesh bag (1) containing the shellfish (2)
      and having one end (3) of the bag twisted as illustrated by the arrows. The direction of
      the twisting could be clockwise or anticlockwise, but is preferably about the longitudinal
      axis of the bag (1) passing through the two opposing ends.                During the twisting
30    operation, the bag (1) tightens about the shellfish as more material becomes a part of
      the twisted end, taking up any slack in the bag enclosing the shellfish and reducing the
      internal volume of the bag. This increases the tension over the entire bag, compacting
      the shellfish together. An opposite end (5) of the bag (1) is preferably used as the
      stable base to which the bottom of the packed shellfish (2) is compressed against, and
35    is therefore held against the twisting. Alternatively, opposing ends of the bag may be
      simultaneously twisted in opposing directions.
                                                     7

  WO 2013/058667                                                         PCT/NZ2012/000193
     As the shellfish have an irregular shape the mesh material should be sufficiently
     flexible in order for the bag to tightly conform over the outer surface of the shellfish
     placed therein. The fibres of the material should also have sufficient tensile strength in
 5   order to sufficiently compress the shellfish following the twisting operation to prevent
     the shellfish from opening during cooking.
    An elongate rigid object (4) is preferably used to assist the twisting operation. The
     object (4) is inserted through gaps in the mesh on opposing sides of the bag (1) at or
10   adjacent one end of the bag, and then rotated substantially about the longitudinal axis
     of the bag.
     Referring to Figure 4, there is illustrated the mesh bag (1) containing the shellfish (2)
     and having one end (3) twisted. The shellfish (2) are in a tightly packed or compacted
15   configuration.
     Following the twisting operation as illustrated in Figure 3, an end of the elongate rigid
    object is inserted through another opening in the bag (1) substantially adjacent the
    shellfish, thereby securing the twisted end of the bag against its tendency to untwist,
20  and maintaining the container to compact the shellfish.
    An alternative embodiment of the method described above is illustrated in Figure 5.
    As shown, the flexible container may alternatively be tensioned not by twisting the bag,
    but by pulling a first end of the bag (1) through an aperture, such as a fixed or
25  stationary aperture (6) in a rigid plate (7), in the direction indicated by the arrow (i.e.
    towards the first end of the bag). This has the effect of both tensioning at least the
    longitudinal fibres of the mesh bag and compacting the shellfish (2) towards the
    opposite end of the bag (1).
30  The opening in the bag (1) need not necessarily be closed prior to insertion of the bag
    in the aperture (6), but in this case it would normally be the open end of the bag
    inserted in the aperture. However, as the aperture is sized not to permit any shellfish
    to pass therethrough so that the plate abuts the shellfish and compacts them towards
    the second end, the aperture has the temporary effect of closing the open end of the
35  bag whilst in remains in the aperture.
                                                  8

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
     Once tensioned, the shellfish may be retained in their compacted relationship by
     clamping or otherwise closing the container by drawing the sides of the container
     together at or substantially adjacent the aperture, between the shellfish and the first
     end of the bag. The container may be thus closed by any suitable means as previously
 5   described.
     According to this alternative embodiment, the first end of the bag (1) may be axially
     threaded through the aperture (6), or may alternatively be inserted orthogonally into the
     aperture by way of a slot (8) extending from the aperture to an outer edge of the plate
10   (6).
     Referring to Figure 6, an alternative method of twisting the bag (1) and maintaining the
     tension in the bag (1) is shown. In this alternative method, the shellfish (2) are is
     divided between two halves (9, 10) of the bag,
15
     Referring to Figure 7, a central portion (11) between the divided halves (9, 10) is
     placed in a divider (12) to maintain the separation of the shellfish by constricting the
     bag in that area. The central portion (11) in the bag contains no shellfish, and it can be
     seen how the division into two halves (9, 10) in the bag (1) begins to compress the
20   shellfish (2).
     Referring to Figure 8, the halves (9,10) are then twisted in opposing directions,
     tensioning the bag (1) and further compacting the halves (9, 10) containing the shellfish
     (2). The twisting can be carried out manually or using a machine, and can be
25   performed to provide a specific amount of pressure onto the shellfish (2). The pressure
     should be enough to maintain the shellfish (2) in their closed and compacted state, but
     not too much as to cause shell breakage.
     Referring to Figure 9, there is shown the result of the alternative method of twisting the
30   bag (1), where the halves (9, 10) of the bag (1) containing the shellfish (2) are
     compacted. In this preferable state, each bulging half (9, 10) engages with and braces
     with the other half (9, 10) adjacent the central portion to maintain this compacted state,
     and the bag (1) is ready for cooking.
                                                  9

  WO 2013/058667                                                         PCT/NZ2012/000193
     Referring to Figure 10, an alternative for maintaining tension in the halves (9, 10) of the
     bag (1) is shown, wherein a stay (13) is placed around the entirety of the bag (1) to
     stop the bag from unwinding.
 5   The stay is preferably an elastic rubber band; however any suitable elastic loop or stay
     can be used to maintain the tension in the bag. The stay can be used to provide further
     longitudinal pressure to compact the entirety of the bag, as well as resist the untwisting
     of each half of the bag during cooking.
10   The divider is preferably a pair of prongs mounted to a fixed surface; however any
     permanent or removable dividing apparatus can be used to maintain the separate
     halves within the bag. The divider should be of sufficient width to accommodate the
     empty central portion of the mesh bag, in both an untwisted and twisted state. The
     divider should also be have a width limited to stop shellfish passing between each half
15   of the bag.
     In a variation of the embodiment of the method described above, the flexible container
     may alternatively, or additionally, be tensioned not by twisting the bag or pulling one
     end through an aperture, but by displacing (i.e. pulling apart) the opposing ends of the
20   bag. This has the effect of lengthening the containing area of the bag somewhat, but
     significantly reducing its width (with respect to the direction of displacement) and
    therefore volume, thereby compressing the shellfish contained therein. The bag may
     be maintained in the tensioned state by rigidly securing the opposing ends of the bag in
    the displaced relationship by way of rigidly-displaced clamps, clips, or any other
25  suitable means for holding apart the ends of the bag.
    The above methods provide for an economical preparation of the shellfish so that the
    shellfish are tightly packed and unable to open during cooking and subsequent
     processes which may include drying, blast freezing, and other food preparation
30  processes. Throughout all of these processes, the shellfish will remain closed and
    hence retain the meat and fluid within.
     Preferably the prepared bag of shellfish is placed within a cooker, where the shellfish
    are cooked using steam or hot water. Once cooking is completed, the shellfish are
35  drained and dried, preferably by means of heated, unheated or dehydrated air blown
    through the closed and twisted bag. The container or bag is thus most preferably
                                                 10

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
      highly porous and free-draining. The drying is performed in order to remove moisture
      from the outer surface of the shellfish, as moisture can penetrate the porous surface of
     the shellfish. This moisture can cause cracking of the shells upon freezing, resulting in
      an aesthetically inferior product. The cracking can also allow "freezer burn" of the
 5    shellfish meat, leading to an inconsistent product.
      The step of freezing the shellfish preferably comprises placing the bag in a blast
     freezer to rapidly freeze the whole shellfish for safe storage.
10    The flexible bag can be opened and the processed shellfish repackaged for distribution
      and/or sale, or the shellfish can be distributed or sold packaged in the flexible
      processing bag of the invention. If the shellfish are repackaged, the flexible processing
      bag can be emptied and reused, recycled, or disposed of.
15    The twisting or pulling of the bag is also a simple, safe process that can be carried out
      using equipment that is inexpensive and relatively simple. The final product of the
      method of preparation, a tightly packed bag of shellfish, is easily transported and
      manoeuvred, making the application of processing such as cooking efficient and
      effective.
20
      In another aspect, the invention comprises a shellfish processing apparatus adapted to
     tension the flexible container according to any one or more of the methods described
      above. The apparatus at a minimum preferably comprises means for holding opposing
      ends of the container, and means for tensioning said flexible container.
25
     The holding means may comprise a clamp, clip, or vice, or any other means for
      securely holding an end of the container.
     The means for tensioning the container may comprise an electric motor adapted to
30    rotate said holding means, thereby twisting the container as described above.
     Alternatively, or additionally, the tensioning means may comprise means for pulling one
     end or displacing the opposing ends of the container, such as a lever, winch, screw, or
      a linear actuator such as a hydraulic or pneumatic cylinder, for example.
35    In at least one embodiment of the invention, the means for tensioning the flexible
     container may further comprise an aperture (6) in a fixed plate (7) adapted to receive
                                                   11

   WO 2013/058667                                                          PCT/NZ2012/000193
      an end of the container and abut or brace the shellfish against tension applied to that
      end of the container by displacing it coaxially from the aperture.
      In another embodiment, the apparatus may be adapted to hold both ends of the bag,
 5    divide the shellfish into two halves in the bag using a divider (as described above), and
      twisting the two halves of the bag in opposite directions.
      Preferably the apparatus further comprises means for securing said flexible container
      to maintain said tension when the holding means is released. This may comprise, for
10    example, means for inserting the rigid elongate object previously described, inserted
      through holes in the container to secure the container against untwisting, or may
      comprise means for applying an adhesive tape, string, or a pair of rigidly-displaced
      clamps, clips, or other means for maintaining the displacement of the ends of the
      container to maintain said tension. However, any such suitable securing means may
15    alternatively be used without departing from the scope of the invention.
      From the foregoing it will be seen that a shellfish preparation method and apparatus is
      provided which is economical, easy to implement, and effective in producing good
     quality processed shellfish.
20
     The method is economical in that it makes use of netting bags which are widely
     available and commonly used in other fields such as the distribution and sale of fruit
     and/or vegetables. The method is flexible in that a broad range of flexible liquid
     permeable containers may be used, depending on material availability and/or cost.
25   The method may be performed manually, or automated for performance by a machine
     for higher throughput and/or lower ongoing costs.
     The use of a mesh bag is more effective than the rigid containers and/or weighted
     plates of the prior art, as the bag conforms to the shape of the shellfish holding each in
30   a tightly packed, compacted configuration. The configuration and number of shellfish is
     not dependent on the shape of the container used, unlike in the prior art. The size of
     the bag used can differ depending on the type and number of shellfish to be processed
     or, if a consistent bag size is to be used, a smaller load of shellfish can nevertheless be
     effectively processed, as the closure and twisting point can be adjusted to suit.
35
                                                   12

 WO 2013/058667                                                           PCT/NZ2012/000193
    Although the invention has been described by way of example and with reference to
    possible embodiments thereof, it is to be understood that modifications or
    improvements may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.
    The invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
 5  referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively,
    in any or all combinations of two or more of said parts, elements or features.
    Furthermore, where reference has been made to specific components or integers of
    the invention having known equivalents, then such equivalents are herein incorporated
    as if individually set forth.
10
    Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description, the words
    "comprise", "comprising", and the like, are to be construed in an inclusive sense as
    opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense, that is to say, in the sense of "including,
    but not limited to".
15
    Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
    considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
    common general knowledge in the field.
                                                 13

   WO 2013/058667                                                          PCT/NZ2012/000193
     Claims
      1.     A method for preparing shellfish comprising:
                      providing a substantially flexible liquid-permeable container having at
  5           least one open end;
                      providing a plurality of shellfish in the container;
                     closing the or each open end of the container; and
                     tensioning the container to compact the shellfish and prevent the
             shellfish from opening.
10
     2.      The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of tensioning the container
             comprises twisting the container.
     3.      The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the step of twisting the container
15           further comprises the step of inserting a substantially rigid elongate object
             through substantially opposing sides of the container at or adjacent end of the
             container, in order to provide leverage to assist in the twisting.
     4.      The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of tensioning the container
20           comprises inserting a first end of the container in or through an aperture, and
             pulling said first end so as to compact the shellfish towards an opposing second
             end of the container.
     5.      The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of tensioning the container
25           comprises dividing the plurality of shellfish between two halves of the container,
             and twisting each half of the container in opposing directions.
     6.      The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the shellfish are divided during the
             twisting step using a divider placed about a central portion of the container.
30
     7.      The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the method further
             comprises the step of maintaining said tension in the container.
     8.      The method as claimed in claim 7 when dependent from claim 2 or claim 3,
35           wherein the step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises
             inserting one end of the elongate object through a side of the container adjacent
                                                     14

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
              the shellfish following twisting, to secure the twisted end of the container
              against untwisting.
      9.      The method as claimed in claim 7 when dependent from claim 4, wherein the
  5           step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises clamping the
              container closed between said first end and said shellfish compacted towards
              said second end.
      10.     The method as claimed in claim 7 when dependent from claim 5, wherein the
10            step of maintaining said tension in the container comprises applying a stay to
              hold the container from untwisting.
      11.     The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the container
              comprises a plastic mesh bag.
15
      12.     The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the method further
              comprises the step of cooking the shellfish by steaming or boiling the shellfish
              in the container.
20   13.     The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the method further
              comprises the step of drying the shellfish by blow-drying the shellfish within the
             container by way of heated, unheated or dehydrated air.
     14.     The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the method further
25           comprises the step of freezing the shellfish.
     15.     The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the step of freezing the shellfish
             comprises freezing the shellfish within the container using a blast freezer.
30   16.     A shellfish processing apparatus, said apparatus comprising:
                      holding means for releasably holding at least one end of a substantially
             flexible container; and
                      tensioning means for moving the holding means to tension said flexible
             container and compact a plurality of shellfish therein.
35
                                                  15

   WO 2013/058667                                                        PCT/NZ2012/000193
      17.    The apparatus as claimed in claim 16, further comprising an aperture adapted
             to receive a first end of said container, wherein the holding means is adapted to
              releasably hold the first end of the container and the tensioning means adapted
             to pull said holding means, whereby said aperture engages and compacts said
 5           shellfish towards an opposing second end of the container.
      18.    The apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein the tensioning means comprises
              means for rotating said holding means to tension the container by twisting.
10    19.    The apparatus as claimed in claim 16, further comprising a divider adapted to
             receive and constrict a central portion of the container, wherein the holding
             means is adapted to hold opposite ends of the container and rotate in opposite
             directions.
15   20.     The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein the tensioning
             means comprises one or more of an electric motor, lever, winch, screw, and/or
             linear actuator.
     21.     The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 20, wherein the apparatus
20           further comprises securing means for securing said flexible container and
             maintaining said tension when said holding means is released.
     22.     A shellfish processed according to the method of any one of claims 1 to 15.
25   23.     A shellfish processing apparatus adapted to perform the method of any one of
             claims 1 to 15.
                                                   16

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012326739, is current as of 2018-02-04 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012326739, is current as of 2018-02-04 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012326739, is current as of 2018-02-04 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012326739, is current as of 2018-02-04 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2012326739, is current as of 2018-02-04 21:00 AEST

