ABSTRACT
A multi-chamber conduit when used in a wall unit having a first duct and a second
duct that extend substantially parallel in a longitudinal direction, an intermediate
section having first and second portions that are integrally joined or moulded with the
outer walls of the first and second ducts, and which form at least one middle channel
that is substantially parallel to the first and second ducts. The resulting multi-chamber
conduit is cast in or attached to the wall unit and allows for simple installation and
modification of building services within the wall unit.

   1/4
50
   Fiur1

            A MULTI-CHAMBER CONDUIT WHEN USED FOR A WALL UNIT
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to a conduit arrangement or multi-chamber conduit when used
for a wall unit. In particular, the invention relates to a conduit arrangement adapted for
use within a modular wall unit, which allows for simple installation and modification of
building services within the wall unit.
BACKGROUND
Concrete is one of the most durable construction materials and consequently is
widely used in the construction industry throughout the world. In particular, concrete
wall units may be fabricated and subsequently tilted into an upright position to form
building structures, which provides for relatively fast construction times. These
concrete wall units may either be precast in reusable moulds, cured and then
transported to the construction site or alternatively, the concrete can be cured in
moulds on site to form the wall units. The choice of fabrication method will depend on
resource capability, site access and time constraints.
Concrete wall units provide numerous benefits over traditional building methods, such
as timber framing with brick walls, which includes the ability to build energy-efficient
buildings that are high strength, low maintenance and long lasting using a quick and
affordable construction process. Other advantages include that they are energy
efficient, flood and fire resistant, do not shrink or distort over time and can be reused
or recycled later on.
However, whilst there are many advantages associated with concrete wall units, it is
important to note that one of the issues with many of the available concrete wall units
on the market is that building services, such as power, water and gas outlets, are
                                               1

difficult to incorporate. As a result, detailed planning and layout design in respect of
the building services is required at the early stages of the construction process, which
is usually before plumbing and electrical trades become involved. This is impractical
and adds to the cost and complexity of the overall construction process. Also, if any
modifications to the building services or the inclusion of additional services are
required once the wall units have been fabricated, it can be very difficult, expensive
and time consuming to facilitate those changes.
Another disadvantage of concrete wall units is that whilst concrete has a good ability
to absorb and store heat energy, it has insufficient insulation properties due to its
relatively low thermal resistance.
Consequently, there is a need to provide an arrangement that allows for simple
installation and modification of building services within the wall unit and also provides
improved thermal properties to the overall wall unit.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
It is an object of the invention to provide a conduit arrangement for a concrete wall
unit that allows for simple installation and modification of building services within the
concrete wall unit.
It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least substantially
ameliorate, the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art.
Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description, taking in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein,
by way of illustration and example, certain embodiments of the present invention are
disclosed.
                                               2

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
According to the present invention, there is provided a multi-chamber conduit when
used in a wall unit, including: a first duct and a second duct, wherein each of the first
and second ducts extend substantially parallel in a longitudinal direction and have an
outer wall and an inner wall and openings at a first and second end; an intermediate
section having a first portion and a second portion, wherein each of the first and
second portions are integrally joined or moulded at a first side and a second side with
the outer walls of the first and second ducts, respectively, such that at least one
middle channel is formed between a portion of the outer walls of the first and second
ducts and inner walls of the first and second portions, and wherein the middle channel
is substantially parallel to the first and second ducts; and wherein the conduit
arrangement is cast in or attached to the wall unit.
In preference, the wall unit is a modular wall unit.
In preference, the modular wall unit is a modular concrete wall unit.
In preference, the outer surfaces of the middle channel do not protrude above
adjacent outer surfaces of the first duct and the second duct.
In a further form of the invention there is a modular wall unit having an outer section
and an inner section, the outer section being constructed from a concrete material
and inner section constructed from a foam insulating material, at least one multi
chamber conduit embedded therein, the foam insulating material being substantially
surrounded by the outer section.
In preference, the multi-chamber conduit is the multi-chamber conduit described
above, for example including: a first duct and a second duct, wherein each of the first
and second ducts extend substantially parallel in a longitudinal direction and have an
                                              3

outer wall and an inner wall and openings at a first and second end; an intermediate
section having a first portion and a second portion, wherein each of the first and
second portions are integrally joined or moulded at a first side and a second side with
the outer walls of the first and second ducts, respectively, such that at least one
middle channel is formed between a portion of the outer walls of the first and second
ducts and inner walls of the first and second portions, and wherein the middle channel
is substantially parallel to the first and second ducts.
In preference, there is at least one layer of reinforcing mesh located in the concrete
material.
In a further form of the invention there is a method of constructing a modular wall unit,
the method comprising the steps of: pouring a first portion of concrete into a mould,
placing an insulating panel on top of the first portion of concrete, positioning at least
one multi-chambered conduit on top of the insulating panel, wherein the at least one
multi-chambered conduit has a longitudinal length that extends at least substantially
across a longitudinal length of the mould, pouring a second portion of concrete into
the mould and at least partially encapsulating the insulating panel and the at least one
multi-chambered conduit such that the chambers of the at least one multi-chambered
conduit are exposed at least at one end so as to allow for the insertion of services
such as cables, tubing or wires therein.
SUMMARY OF THE DRAWINGS
Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 2 is end on view of the present invention in a first embodiment as shown in
figure 1;
Figure 3 is a side view of the present invention, having an indeterminate length;
Figure 4 is a top view of the present invention having an indeterminate length;
                                              4

Figure 5 is a side view of a mould used to create an embodiment of the present
invention when incorporated into a modular wall panel;
Figure 6 is the view of figure 5 showing a further step which includes the addition of
an insulating panel and the conduits of the present invention;
Figure 7 shows a further step in which additional concrete has been poured into the
mould to form the final modular wall panel.
DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
The following description will describe several embodiments of the present invention.
Figure 1 shows an embodiment of the present invention which includes a pair of
spaced apart longitudinally extending ducts or chambers 20 and 30, also referred to
as first duct 20 and second duct 30. The first duct 20 is defined by the substantially
circular shaped outer wall 22 and a bottom or base wall 25 that extends between the
ends of the outer wall 22. Similarly, the second duct 30 is defined by a substantially
circular shaped outer wall 31 and a bottom or base wall 35 extending between the
ends of the outer wall 31.
Positioned between the chambers or ducts 20 and 30 is an intermediate duct or
chamber 50, which is defined by a first portion 51 being a laterally extending wall that
is integrally formed at one end 60 with the outer wall 22 of the first duct 20 and at the
other end 61 being integrally formed with the outer wall 31 of the second duct 30.
There is then a second portion 55 also being a laterally extending wall that is
integrally formed at one end 62 with the outer wall 22 of the first duct 20 and the other
end 63 being integrally formed with the outer wall 31 of the second duct 30.
The substantially circular outer wall 22 that defines the first duct 20 includes an outer
side 23 and an inner side 24 which are substantially parallel to one another. Similarly,
the substantially circular outer wall 31 which defines the second duct 30 has an outer
                                             5

side 33 and an inner side 32. The intermediate duct or chamber 50 is then defined by
the combination of the first portion 51 and second portion 55, being substantially
parallel to one another, and a portion of the outer wall 22 of the first duct 20 and a
portion of the outer wall 31 of the second duct 30. As shown in the present
embodiment, the first portion 51 and second portion 55 are both substantially planar
and located opposite to one another extending longitudinally along the length of each
of the first duct 20 and second duct 30.
The structure of the embodiment as illustrated in the figures can be fabricated from a
plastics material in continuous lengths by well-known plastic extrusion processes. The
plastics material can be selected from any suitable plastics material such as a low
density polyethylene or other such suitable material as known by those skilled in the
field so as to achieve a finished product that has the appropriate physical strength
and other characteristics suitable for use in the construction of modular wall
segments. Production in continuous lengths allows for sections to be cut to required
lengths as needed. Alternatively, the conduit of the present invention may be
extruded to preset lengths.
In use, an embodiment of the invention involves a method of producing a modular
wall system or segments therefore in which the multi-chamber conduit is formed
within the wall or otherwise incorporated therein.
In one embodiment there is the formation of a modular concrete wall panel as shown
in figures 5 - 7 which is an end on view of a pre-cast concrete panel mould 100,
which comprises a substantially rectangular or square arrangement of side panels
within which the concrete panel is formed. Details of the pre-cast mould are not
shown so as to provide further detail of the formation approach/methodology. In any
event, such moulds are known to those skilled in the field.
                                             6

With reference to figure 5, there is a mould 100 into which is laid steel reinforcing
mesh (not shown), which provides additional strength to the wall unit in its completed
state, and at predetermined locations tie rods 125 are also then affixed to the
reinforcing mesh. A suitable concrete mixture 110 is then poured into the mould cavity
115 to a predetermined depth within the mould.
After the first portion of concrete mixture 110 has been poured then an insulating
block 120 can be laid in place. The dimensions of the insulating block 120 are such
that its outermost edges are set back from the interior surfaces of the mould 100. The
insulating block 120 can be selected from any suitable insulating material such as a
foam material, and in one embodiment polyurethane foam is utilised due to its
excellent insulating qualities as well as its ability to withstand fire. Such polyurethane
foams are known in the industry and those skilled in the art can select an appropriate
type having the appropriate fire rating, such as those polyurethane foams that meet
Australian Standard AS 1530.4-2014 in relation to fire resistance of elements of
construction.
Once the foam insulating block 120 is in place conduits 10 are laid directly on the
outer surface of the foam insulating block 120 at predetermined locations with respect
to the outer mould 100. In the present embodiment as shown, the conduits 10 are
positioned 300 mm apart from one another (not drawn to scale in the figures), the
benefit in doing so therefore provides that those that are installing electrical or water
services into the wall after it has been erected will be able to quickly and readily
locate the position of the conduits 10 and drill through the outer wall surface
accurately to gain access to the interior chambers thereof. Other spacing dimensions
may be chosen as required without necessarily departing from the scope of the
invention.
                                              7

The length of the conduit 10 is such that it substantially extends along the complete
longitudinal length of the concrete mould 100 so that once put in place access to the
chambers of the conduit 10 is readily achieved from the top of the panel.
Once the conduits 10 have been put in place upon the insulating block 120, additional
steel reinforcing mesh is placed on top of the conduits 10 and the tie rods 125 are
then fastened to the exposed steel reinforcing mesh in the usual manner. Additional
concrete mixture is then poured into the mould so as to cover and encapsulate the
insulating block 120 and also cover the conduits 10. The uppermost side of the
concrete 130 will subsequently form an inner facing wall of the construction and the
lowermost surplus 135 will form the outer facing wall of the construction.
The concrete is then left to cure as required for the appropriate time dependent upon
both the amount of material, concrete formulation and temperature along with other
suitable characteristics that are known to those skilled in the art.
After removal of the cured concrete panel from the mould, it is then placed in an
upright position at the appropriate building location with the side of the concrete panel
having the side 130 orientated so that it is an inner wall. Once in place, services such
as water pipes, electrical parts and ethernet cable can be passed down into the
respective chambers 20, 30, 50 as required. For example, with water services where
there may be both a hot water pipe and cold water pipe, then a hot water pipe can be
passed down a first chamber or duct and a cold water pipe may then be passed
down, for example, the second duct/chamber such that the two parts are then held in
separate chambers so as to prevent inadvertent heat transfer between the two pipes
which may lower or reduce their efficiency.
Access to the conduit 10 can then be achieved by first locating the conduit 10 from
the inside surface 130, which may be facilitated by use of a stud finder or other
suitable equipment. Once located an installer can then readily drill into the modular
                                             8

concrete wall from the inside surface 130 until they drill into the appropriate chamber
of the appropriate service. For example, a telephone line can then be passed down
through the appropriate chamber until such time as it reaches the location where the
installer has drilled into the chamber from the inside surface of the concrete wall and
then pulled out through the drilled opening and attached to the wall 130 by way of an
appropriate fixing plate suitable for the connection of the appropriate device.
The inclusion of the foam insulating block 120 within the modular concrete panel
provides an increase in the insulating properties of the concrete wall compared to
those walls that do not have such an inner core. By varying the thickness of the foam
insulating block 120, depending on the overall thickness of the desired concrete wall,
the insulating characteristics can be altered and tuned to those specific to
requirements. For example, for buildings that may experience greater variation in
temperatures or those looking to provide a greater level of temperature insulation and
sound properties a thicker wall having a thicker foam insulating block may be
constructed. In addition, the number of conduits 10 formed within the modular wall
panel can vary depending upon overall final requirements that may be stipulated by
the builder or architect.
                                             9

CLAIMS
1.      A multi-chamber conduit when used in a wall unit, including:
        a first duct and a second duct, wherein each of the first and second ducts
extend substantially parallel in a longitudinal direction and have an outer wall and an
inner wall and openings at a first and second end;
        an intermediate section having a first portion and a second portion, wherein
each of the first and second portions are integrally joined or moulded at a first side
and a second side with the outer walls of the first and second ducts, respectively,
such that at least one middle channel is formed between a portion of the outer walls
of the first and second ducts and inner walls of the first and second portions, and
wherein the middle channel is substantially parallel to the first and second ducts; and
        wherein the conduit arrangement is cast in or attached to the wall unit
2.      The multi-chamber conduit of claim 1, wherein the wall unit is a modular wall
unit.
3.      The multi-chamber conduit of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the modular wall unit
is a modular concrete wall unit.
4.      The multi-chamber conduit of any of the above claims, wherein the outer
surfaces of the middle channel do not protrude above adjacent outer surfaces of the
first duct and the second duct.
5.      A modular wall unit having an outer section and an inner section, the outer
section being constructed from a concrete material and inner section constructed
from a foam insulating material, at least one multi-chamber conduit embedded
                                             10

therein, the foam insulating material being substantially surrounded by the outer
section.
6.      A modular wall unit of claim 5, wherein the multi-chamber conduit is the multi
chamber conduit of any one of claims 1-4.
7.      A modular wall unit of claim 5 or 6, wherein there is at least one layer of
reinforcing mesh located in the concrete material.
8.      A method of constructing a modular wall unit, the method comprising the steps
of:
        pouring a first portion of concrete into a mould, placing an insulating panel on
top of the first portion of concrete, positioning at least one multi-chambered conduit
on top of the insulating panel, wherein the at least one multi-chambered conduit has a
longitudinal length that extends at least substantially across a longitudinal length of
the mould, pouring a second portion of concrete into the mould and at least partially
encapsulating the insulating panel and the at least one multi-chambered conduit such
that the chambers of the at least one multi-chambered conduit are exposed at least at
one end so as to allow for the insertion of services such as cables, tubing or wires
therein.
                                              11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
