ABSTRACT
Disclosed is an antibody which binds to risperidone, which can be used to detect risperidone in
a sample such as in a competitive immunoassay method. The antibody can be used in a
lateral flow assay device for point-of-care detection of risperidone, including multiplex detection
of aripiprazole, olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone in a single lateral flow assay device.

                    Antibodies to Risperidone Haptens and Use Thereof
[0000]          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013305884, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                          Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]          This application claims the benefit of U.S.         Provisional Application   No.
61/691,615, filed August 21, 2012.
                                     Field of the Invention
[0002]          The present invention relates to the field of immunoassays, and in particular to
antibodies that bind to risperidone which can be used in immunoassays for detection of
risperidone.
                                          Background
[0003]          Schizophrenia   is a chronic and debilitating psychiatric disorder affecting
approximately 0.45-1 % of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia" Lancet
2009, 374, 635-645). The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained remission from
psychotic symptoms, reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and improve patient
functioning and overall quality of life.  While many patients with schizophrenia are able to
achieve symptom stability with the available antipsychotic medications, poor adherence to
medication is a common reason for relapse with daily administered oral medications. Several
studies (Abdel-Baki, A.; Ouellet-Plamondon, C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in
Patients with First-Episode Psychosis" Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S14)
investigating the outcomes of non-compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia
who do not take their medication as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital
admission and suicide as well as increased mortality. It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients
with schizophrenia have difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J. A.;
Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy, J. P.; Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.; Keefe, R. S. E.;
Davis, S. M.; Davis, C. E.; Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, J. K. "Effectiveness of
Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients with Chronic Schizophrenia" New England Journal of Medicine
2005, 353(12), 1209-1223).
[0004]          Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the quantification of serum or plasma
concentrations of drugs, including anti-psychotic drugs, for treatment            monitoring and
optimization. Such monitoring permits, for example, the identification

of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are not achieving
therapeutic doses, that are non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, or that have
abnormal     metabolism       resulting   in   inappropriate    plasma     concentrations.
Considerable individual variability exists in the patient's ability to absorb, distribute,
metabolize, and excrete anti-psychotic drugs. Such differences can be caused by
concur-ent disease, age, concomitant medication or genetic peculiarities. Different
drug formulations can also influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic drugs. TDM
permits dose optimization for individual patients, improving therapeutic and functional
outcomes, TDM further permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with
prescribed dosages and achievement of effective serum concentrations.
{0006]       To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma
concentrations of anti-psychotic drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC)
with UV or mass spectrometry detection, and radioimmunoassays (see, for example.
Woestenborghs et al 1990 "On the selectivity of some recently developed RIA's" in
Methodological Surveys in Biochemistry and Analysis 20:241-246. Analysis of Drugs
and Metabolites, Including Anti-infective Agents; Heykants et al,             1994 "The
Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in Humans: A Summary", J Clin Psychiatry 55/5,
suppl:13-17; Huang et al, 1993 "Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent
risperidone and the prolactin response in healthy subjects', Clin Pharmacol Ther
54:257-268).      Radloimmunoassays detect one or both of risperidone and
paliperidone. Salamone et al. in US Patent No. 8,088,594 disclose a competitive
immunoassay for risperidone using antibodies that detect both risperidone and
paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites. The antibodies used in
the competitive immunoassay are developed against a particular immunogen.               ID
Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELiSA for olanzapine, another anti
psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive format. The Instructions For Use
indicate that the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for forensic
or research use, and is specifically not intended for therapeutic use, The Instructions
recommend       that   all  positive    samples    should    be    confirmed   with    gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and indicate that the antibody used
detects olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "instructions For Use Data Sheet
IDEL-F083", Rev. Date Aug. &t 2011). Some of these methods, namely HPLC and
                                             2

GC/MS, can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in
large or specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
[0006]       A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti
psychotic drugs, particularly methods that can be performed in a prescribing
clinician's office (where the treatment for an individual patient can be adjusted
accordingly in a much more timely manner) and in other medical settings lacking LC
or GC/MS equipment or requiring rapid test results.
[0007]        Risperidone is:
                                   F
       N.
                              Summary of the Invention
[0008]        The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(if.
[00091        Formula i:
                         N
      N                            R2
   RN
wherein:
R' is H, or OH;
                                          0~                    0 0
                                  O                  O        N)Y4OH
                          O                        N      mN
R' is O(CH 2)rNH 2,                      ,
O(CH 2)rNHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),G;
wherein:
 Z is selected from the group consisting of:
                                           3

 N(R4), -- , -S-, -heteroalkyl
R4 is H., an alkyl group, cycloakyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2. 3, 4, or 5.
[0010]         Presently preferred embodiments of the antibody of the subject invention
are the antibodies designated 5-5 and 5-9 generated against the compounds having
Formula    || and Formula 1i1. and the antibody designated 2A-5 generated against the
compound having Formula IV.          Other suitable immunogens are the compounds
having Formulas V and VI.
[0011]         Formula Il (Compound 4):
                                                                             N-O
                                      00
              H
 Protein-N                    N          H
                            0         o
[00121         Formula III (Compound 5):
                        00                                                       F
                                                     N
 Protein
               H
                                             4

[00131       Formula IV (Compound 13):
       r                                                                    -0Protein
                      Compound 13                                         H
[0014]       Formula V (Compound 2):
                  o                              H0
                                                    N-N-Protein
    ''>N                                O              0
                   N0
[00151       Formula VI (Compound 12):
                                                                             N--O
                                                                    NF
                          o      N 0
                                                 1t
                                     N'             0
                                  N
               C0
 Protein -NN
            H           0
[0016]      The antibodies of the subject invention can be provided in assay kits and
assay devices, with a presently preferred device being a lateral flow assay device
which provides for point-of-care analysis.
[00171      The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to risperidone, the method comprising: (I) selecting a host cell for antibody
production; and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
risperidone. Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to risperidone.              The method
comprises: (i) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
                                            5

capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to risperidone; and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.
[0018]        The invention further provides a method of detecting risperidone in a
sample. The method comprises: (I) contacting a sample with an antibody according
to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and risperidone present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect risperidone in the sample.
[0019]         Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
risperidone in a sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an
antibody according to the subject invention, and with risperidone or a competitive
binding partner of risperidone. wherein one of the antibody and the risperidone or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample risperidone competes with the risperidone or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
risperidone.
[0020]         Further objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be
apparent to those skilled in the art from detailed consideration of the preferred
embodiments that follow.
                           Brief Description of the Drawings
[0021]         Figs, 1 and 2 show Competitive ELISA results generated with hybridoma
5-9;
[0022]         Fig.    3  shows      Competitive    ELISA      results  generated    with
risperidone/paliperidone clone 2A5;
[0023]         Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device;
[0024]         Fig. 5 shows a typical dose response curve                generated with
risperidone/paliperidone clone 5-9;
[00251         Fig. 6 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
the subject invention;
[0026]         Fig. 7 shows a typical dose response curve for an aripiprazole positive
control generated with antibody 5C7 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding
partner;
                                             6

[00271       Fig. 8 shows a typical dose response curve for an oianzapine positive
control generated with antibody 4G9-1 and a labeled olanzapine competitive binding
partner;
[00281       Fig. 9 shows a typical dose response curve for a quetiapine positive
control generated with antibody 11 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding
partner;
[00291       Fig. 10 shows a typical dose response curve for a risperidone positive
control generated with antibody 5-9 and a labeled risperidone competitive binding
partner;
[0030]       Fig. 11 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 in the presence of labeled
aripiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0031]       Fig. 12 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole.
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each:
[00321       Fig. 13 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of a labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner
for each;
[0033]       Fig. 14 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or quetiapine in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0034]       Fig. 15 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 in the presence of a labeled
aripiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
                                           7

[0035]       Fig. 16 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole.
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0036]       Fig. 17 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0037]       Fig. 18 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or quetiapine in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive binding
partner for each;
[00381       Fig. 19 shows a comparison of the aripiprazole dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the aripiprazole dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
[0039]       Fig. 20 shows a comparison of the olanzapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the olanzapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
[0040]       Fig. 21 shows a comparison of the quetiapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the quetiapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format: and
[0041]       Fig. 22 shows a comparison of the risperidone dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the risperidone dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format.
                   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0042]       The invention provides an isolated antibody which binds to risperidone.
The invention further provides an assay kit and an assay device comprising the
antibody. Also provided are methods of producing the antibody and of producing a
hybridoma cell line capable of producing the antibody. Further provided is a method
of detecting risperidone in a sample, including a competitive immunoassay method.
                                            8

[0043]         In one embodiment the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[00441         Formula I:
                    NR2
   R
wherein:
R' is H, or OH;
                                                                  0UI
                              N 0
R2 is O(CH 2 )rNH 2,                      ,        H
O(CH 2 ),NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO2H. or Z-(Y),-G:
wherein:
 Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R)-. -0-, -S-, -heteroaky-;
R' is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralky group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1:
r is 1, 2, 3. 4, or 5;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[00451         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
                                            9

R1 is H, or OH;
                                                                  0   0
                                    OOrA'N                        ~   ~OH
R2 is O(CHzXNH 2 ,
O(CH2)rNHC(O)(CHz)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G:
wherein:
Z is 0;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0. or 1;
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5:
m is 1, 2,34, or5;
n is 1, 2. 3, 4, or 5.
[0046]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R' is H, or OH;
                                                                  0 0
                                                    r0       N-1N        OH
R' is O(CH2 )rNH2 ,                    0        1, H      m
O(CH2)rNHC(O)(CH2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)2 -G;
wherein:
Z is O(CH 2)rNH;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0, or 1;
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0047]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is
                                           10

generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R' is H, or OH;
                                            0                     ~0  (
                                0                     0          N       OH
R2 is O(CH 2)rNH 2,                       ,        H
O(CH2 )rNHC(O)(CH 2)mrCO 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
wherein:
Z is O(CH 2)rNH;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 1;
r is 2;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5:
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[00481         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
RI is H, or OH;
                                                                   0  (
                                                                      n OO
                               H        N            j0   NNN
                         0   r
R2 is O(CH 2 ),NH2 ,                              rH     m                   or
O(CH 2 )rNHC(O)(CH2 )mCO 2H;
wherein:
r is 2:
m is 1, 2, 3, or4;
n is 1, or 2.
[0049]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and which: (I) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
                                            1*

immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
RI is H, or OH; and
                             OS
R2 is O(CH 2)rNH 2 , or                     ;
wherein r is 2;
wherein m is 1.
[00501        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and
which: (I) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula VII and
an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[00511        Formula VII
                         N-0
                                        NH 2
    i N '
  OH
[0052]        in a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and
which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula Viii and
an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[00531        Formula Viii
                          N-O
       N                               NH2
[0054]        In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and
which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula IX and
                                           12

an immunogenic carrier: or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[00551       Formula IX
                         N-N
                 C0             /
        NN       00
   OH
[00561       In a preferred embodiment, the present invenion is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and
which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula X and
an immunogenic carrier: or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[0057]       Formula X
                         N-0NH                  0
       0                             ,r/\ N
                 INN               0
       N
      NN
                                               (J
[0058]       Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of- Formula i, Formula
Vil, Formula Vill, Formula IX, and Formula X; and an immunogenic carrier.
[0059]       Further details of the compounds described by the formulas above and
the conjugates formed by the compounds and an immunogenic carrier are provided
in the section below entitled "Compounds, Conjugates and Immunogens".
[0060]       Further details of the antibodies of the subject invention are provided in
the section below entitled "Antibodies".
[00611       The subject invention further provides an assay kit comprising the
antibody, as well as an assay device comprising the antibody. Preferably, the assay
device is a lateral flow assay device. Further details of the assay kits and assay
devices are provided below in the section entitled "Assay Kits and Devices".
[0062]       The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to risperidone, the method comprising: (i) selecting a host cell for antibody
production; and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula 1
                                            13

and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
risperidone. In additional embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a
conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of: Formula VII, Formula
Vill, Formula IX, and Formula X; and an immunogenic carrier. Further details on the
production of the antibodies of the subject invention are provided in the section below
entitled "Antibodies".
[0063]        Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to risperidone.              The method
comprises: (i) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to risperidone: and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.               In additional
embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a conjugate of a compound
selected from the compounds of:         Formula VII, Formula VilI, Formula IX, and
Formula X; and an immunogenic carrier.            Further details of the production of
hybridomas in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the section
below entitled "Antibodies".
[00641        The invention further provides a method of detecting risperidone in a
sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an antibody according
to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and risperidone present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect risperidone in the sample. Further
details of the method of detecting risperidone in accordance with the subject
invention are provided in the section below entitled "immunoassays"
[0065]        Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
risperidone in a sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an
antibody according to the subject invention, and with risperidone or a competitive
binding partner of risperidone, wherein one of the antibody and the risperidone or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample risperidone competes with the risperidone or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
risperidone,    Further details of the competitive immunoassay method of detecting
                                            14

risperidone in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the section
below entitled "Immunoassays".
[0066]       In a preferred embodiment of the subject invention, the detection of
risperidone is accompanied by the detection of one or more analvtes in addition to
risperidone. Preferably the one or more analytes are anti-psychotic drugs other than
risperidone, and more preferably the anti-psychotic drugs other than risperidone are
selected from the group consisting of:         aripiprazole,   paliperidone. quetiapine,
olanzapine, and metabolites thereof.
[00671       As discussed above, the antibodies of the subject invention can be used
in assays to detect the presence and/or amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient
samples.    Such detection permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the
benefits thereof. Detection of levels of anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many
purposes, each of which represents another embodiment of the subject invention.
including: determination of patient adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy;
use as a decision too to determine whether a patient should be converted from an
oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long-acting injectable anti-psychotic regimen; use as
a decision tool to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral or injectable
anti-psychotics should be increased or decreased to ensure attainment or
maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as an aid in the initiation of anti
psychotic drug therapy by providing evidence of the attainment of minimum pK
levels;  use to determine bioequivalence of anti-psychotic drug              in multiple
formulations or from multiple sources; use to assess the impact of polypharmacy and
potential drug-drug interactions; and use as an indication that a patient should be
excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the subsequent
monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
COMPOUNDS, CONJUGATES AND IMMUNOGENS
[0068]       In relation to the compounds and conjugates and immunogens, the
following abbreviations are used:       AMAS is N-(a-maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide
ester: BTG is bovine thyroglobulin; Bu3N is tributylamine; DCC                is
dicyclohexylcarbodiirnide; DCM is dichioromethane; DIEA is diisopropylethylamine;
DMF is N,N-dimethylformamide; EDTA is ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid; KLH is
keyhole limpet hemocyanin: SATA is N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate; TEA is
triethylamine;  THF is tetrahydrofuran;       TFA    is trifluoroacetic acid;    Et3N  is
                                           15

triethylamine; TBDMS is t-butyldimethvisilyl: DIC is diisopropycarbodiimide; DMAP is
N,N-dimethyl4-aminopyridine;          EDC        is    1-ethy-3(3-dimethylarniriopropyi)
carbodiimidehvdrochloride; NHS is N-hydroxysuccinimide TFP is Tetrafluorophenyl;
PNP is p-nitrophenyl; TBTU is O-(BenzotriazoM-yi)-N,N,N N-tetramethyluronium
tetrafluoroborate;     HOBT      is     N-Hydroxybenzotriazole;      DEPBT       is    3
(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)-1,2,3-benzotrazi-       4(3H)-one;    BOP-CI    is  Bis(2-oxo-3
oxazolidiny!)phosphonic chloride; DTT is dithioerythritol.
[0069]       The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining
together of separate parts. Representative conjugates include those formed by the
joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula 1, and a
large molecule, such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In the
conjugate the small molecule may be joined at one or more active sites on the large
molecule.
[0070]       The term "hapten" refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A hapten is a
protein-free substance, which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation. but
which does react with antibodies. The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to
a high molecular weight immunogenic carrier, and then injecting this coupled product,
i.e., an immunogen, into a human or animal subject.
[0071]       The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting,
producing, or generating an immune response in an organism.
[0072]       An "immunogenic        carrier," as used herein, is an immunogenic
substance, commonly a protein, that can join at one or more positions with haptens,
thereby enabling the production of antibodies that can bind with these haptens.
Examples of immunogenic carrier substances include, but are not limited to, proteins,
glycoproteins, complex polyamino-polysaccharides, particles. and nucleic acids that
are recognized as foreign and thereby elcit an immunologic response from the host.
The polyamino-polysaccharides may be prepared from polysacoharides using any of
the conventional means known for this preparation.
[0073]       Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers,
including without limitation. albumins, serum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative
proteins include bovine serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin,
bovine thyroglobulin, fraction V human serum albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed
globulin, diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus toxin, succinyiated proteins, and
synthetic poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
                                             16

[0074         Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides,
which are a high molecular weight polymers built up by repeated condensations of
monosaccharides. Examples of polysaccharides are starches, glycogen, cellulose,
carbohydrate gums such as gum arabic, agar, and so forth. The polysaccharide also
contains poly(amino acid) residues andlor lipid residues.
[0075]       The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) either alone or
conjugated to one of the above mentioned poly(arnino acids) or polysaccharides.
[0076]         The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles
are generally at least about 0.02 microns (Pm) and not more than about 100 im, and
usually about 0.05 gm to 10 pm in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic,
swellable or      non-sweliable, porous     or non-porous,     optimally of a   density
approximating water, generally from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and composed of material
that can be transparent, partially transparent, or opaque. The particles can be
biological materials such as cells and microorganisms, including non-limiting
examples       such    as    erythrocytes,   leukocytes,    lymphocytes,   hybridornas.
Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E, coli, and viruses. The particles can also
be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers, liposomes, latex, phospholipid
vesicles, or lipoproteins.
[0077]       The term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made
from a parent compound by one or more chemical reactions.
[0078]       The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical
compound that contains a chain of carbon atoms and the same particular functional
groups as a reference compound, but the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or
shorter than that of the reference compound.
[0079]       A "label," "detector molecule'" "reporter" or "detectable marker" is any
molecule which produces, or can be induced to produce, a detectable signal. The
label can be conjugated to an analyte, immunogen, antibody, or to another molecule
such as a receptor or a molecule that can bind to a receptor such as a ligand,
particularly a hapten or antibody. A label can be attached directly or indirectly by
means of a linking or bridging moiety.         Non-limiting examples of labels include
radioactive isotopes (e.g., "l), enzymes (e.g. P-galactosidase, peroxidase), enzyme
fragments,      enzyme     substrates,   enzyme    inhibitors,  coenzymes,    catalysts,
fluorophores (e.g., rhodamine. fluorescein isothiocyanate or FITC, or Dynght 649),
dyes, chemiluminescers and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or sensitizers.
                                            17

[00801       As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure
which connects two or mom substructures such as haptens. carriers. immunogens,
labels or binding partners through a functional linking group. These spacer groups
are composed of the atoms typically present and assembled in ways typically found
in organic compounds and so may be referred to as "organic spacing groups". The
chemical building blocks used to assemble the spacers will be described hereinafter
in this application. Among the preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated
or unsaturated carbon chains, These carbon chains may also include one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at the termini of the chains, By
"heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon which are chosen from the group
consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur, wherein the nitrogen,
phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may have carbon
or other heteroatoms bonded to them. The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the
chain.
[0081]       The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the
atoms other than hydrogen.- The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group
is determined by counting the number of atoms other than hydrogen along the
shortest route between the substructures being connected. Preferred chain lengths
are between 1 to 20 atoms.
[0082]       A "functional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a
hapten and may be used to provide an available reactive site through which the
happen portion may be coupled to another moiety through formation of a covalent
chemical bond to produce a conjugate of a hapten with another moiety (such as a
label or carrier). The hapten may be linked in this way to a moiety such as biotin to
form a competitive binding partner.
[0083]       Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of
different lengths allow one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the
carrier for presentation to the immune system of the animal or human being
immunized for optimization of the antibody formation process. Attachment to different
positions in the hapten molecule allows the opportunity to present specific sites on
the hapten to the immune system to influence antibody recognition. The spacer may
contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups to make the hapten derivative more soluble in
                                            18

aqueous media.       Examples of hydrophilic solubilizing groups include but are not
limited to polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example, polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl,
carboxylate and sulfonate groups.
[00841        The term "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that
donates an electron-pair to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term
*electrophilic group" or "electrophile" refers to a species that accepts an electron-pair
from a nucleophile to form a chemical bond in a reaction.
[00851        The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms
in place of a hydrogen atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent
molecule. Non limiting examples of substituents include halogen atoms, amino,
hydroxy, carboxy, alkyl, aryl, heteroalkyl, heteroaryl, cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde
and ketone groups.
[00861         The term "alkyl" refers to saturated or unsaturated linear and branched
chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is
specifically intended to include radicals having any degree or level of saturation. Alkyl
includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec
butyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, heptyl, octyl, 2,2,4-trimethylpentyl,
nonyt, decyl. undecyl and dodecyl.
[0087]        The term cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated
monocyclic or bicyclic hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon
atoms. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
cyclopropyl,    1,1-dimethyl cyclobutyl,     1,2,3-trimethylcyclopentyl    cyclohexyl and
cyclohexenyl.
[0088]        The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at termini of the chains.
[0089]        The term "aninoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino
group bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[00901        The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12
carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom.              Examples
include but are not limited to methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
[0091]        The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one aikoxy group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
                                              19

[0092         The term "thicalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain. The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state
and includes sulfoxides. sulfones and sulfates.
[00931        The term "carboxylate group' includes carboxylic acids and alkyl,
cycloalkyl. arvl or aralkyl carboxylate esters.
[00941        The term 'alkylcarbonylP refers to a group that has a carbonyl group
bonded to any carbon atom along an alky chain.
[0095]        The term "heteroarv' refers to 5- to 7-membered mono- or 8- to 10
membered bicyclic aromatic ring radicals, any ring of which may consist of from one
to four heteroatoms selected from N, O or S where the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can
exist    in any allowed       oxidation state.      Examples     include  benzimidazolyl,
benzothiazoly, benzothienyl, benzoxazolyl, furyl, imidazoly, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl, thiazolyi and
thienyl.
[00961        The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals
containing from 6 to 12 carbons in the ring. Alkyl substituents may optionally be
present on the ring. Examples include phenyl, biphenyls and napththalene.
{00971        The term "aralkyl" refers to a Cj          alkyl group containing an aryl
substituent. Examples include benzyl, phenylethyl or 2-naphthylmethyl.
[0098]        The term 'acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R 3, where R. is hydrogen, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl. An "acylating agent" adds the
C(O)R, group to a molecule.
[0099]        The term "sulfony" refers to the group -S(O)2Rb, where R is hydrogen,
alkyl, cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl. aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl . A "sulfonylating
agent' adds the -S(O) 2 R, group to a molecule.
[00100]       Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment of
haptens to carrier moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The
spacer may be formed using a molecule that is differentially functionalized or
activated with groups at either end to allow selective sequential reaction with the
hapten and the carrier, but the same reactive moiety may also be used at both ends.
The groups selected for reaction with the hapten and the functional linking group to
be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of functionality on the hapten and
the carrier that the hapten is to be bonded with. Spacers and methods of attachment
to haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those described by Brinkley, M.,
                                            20

A.,     ioconjugate Chem.      1992, 3:2-13,    Hermanson,     Greg T.,    Bioconjugate
Techniques,.Academic Press, London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA, 2008 and
Thermo Scientific Pierce Crossinking Technical Handbook; available for download or
hard copy request from Thermo Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford, IL USA
61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at: http:iwww.percenet.cc-m/ and references within.
Many differentially activated molecules for formation of spacer groups are
commercially available from vendors, for example Thermo Scientific.
[00101]       For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer
to the hapten include reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building
block bearing an acyl halide or active ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that
undergo reaction with a nucieophilic group, for example an amino group, under mild
conditions to form a stable linkage. A stable linkage is defined as one that remains
intact under conditions of further use, for example subsequent synthetic steps, use
as an immunogen, or in a biochemical assay. A preferred example of a stable
linkage is an aide bond. Active esters and methods of formation are described by
Benoiton, N.L, in Houben-Weyl, Methods of Organic Chemistry, Thieme Stuttgart,
New York. vol E22 section 3.2:443 and Benoiton, N.L, Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, Taylor and Francis, NY, 2006.          Preferred active esters include p
nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) and tetrafluorophenyl
ester (TFP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods known to one skilled in
the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride or oxalyl
chloride, see: Fieser, LF. and Fieser, M. Reagents for Organic Synthesis, John
Wiley and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other
active esters such as p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi
functional spacers as described by Wu et.al, Organic Letters. 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N.
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters may be prepared by reaction of N.N-disuccinimidyl
carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic acid of a compound in the presence
of an organic base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic
solvent under anhydrous conditions as described in Example 35 of W02012012595
or by using N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or other
dehydrating agent, under anhydrous conditions. Tetrafluorophenyl esters (TFP) may
be       prepared      by   reaction    of     carboxylic     acids     with    2,3,5,6
tetrafluorophenyltrifluoroacetate in the presence of an organic base such as
triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent under anhydrous
                                           21

conditions as reported by Wilbur, etsal, Bioconjugate Chem., 2004,15(1):203. One
skilled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table 1, among others, can be
obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing
routine optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the
hapten to a thiol group on a carrier.
[00102]       Table 1
                          0                              N
                   0                NN
                 q6
              00
    0O                               0       O0    0
                       0~
                            0                0
    0      0Y~                                                 8
    I       o               NJ
      oa1
                                                             0
                aY
                                               N     /  NCO
              o     0
                               00
                            0
                                           Reasonable values for m and
                  N                        n are between 1 and 10
        00                        N
             0C
[00103]       Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten and a carboxylic acid
functionality on the spacer building block in the presence of a coupling agent may
                                            22

also be used as a mode of attachment. Preferred reagents are those typically used in
peptide synthesis. Peptide coupling reagents include but are not limited to 0
(Benzotriazol-1-yi)-N,N.N'N'-tetramethyluroniun    tetrafiluoroborate (TBTU,    CAS
#125700-67-6), see: Pruhs, S.,      Org. Process. Res. Dev. 2006, 10-441; N
Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT, CAS #2592-95-2) with a carbodiimide dehydrating
agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiirnide (DCC), disopropyicarbodiimide
(DIC), or 1-ethyl-3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochlioride (EDC),     see:
Kbnig W., Geiger, R. Chem. Ber, 1970, 103 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)
1,2.3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one   (DEPBT,     CAS#165534-43-0). see: Liu. H. et.a.,
Chinese Chemical Letters, 2002, 13(7):601; Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic
chloride: (BOP-CL. CAS# 68641-49-6), see: Diago-Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis,
1980, 7:547-51 and others described in detail by Benoiton in Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2005, Chapter 2, and the technical bulletin
provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein Technologies (aapptec), 6309
Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111; www.aappec.com, and
references within.    These methods create a stable amide linkage attaching the
hapten to the spacer. Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known
methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine optimization of
reaction conditions employing the methods described and cited above are shown, but
not limited to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a
thiol group on a carrier.
[00104]       Table 2
            CO2H                           OH                   N      CO2
    0                           0                              0
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
[00105]       Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential
attachment of appropriate chemical groups to the hapten including the step of
forming the functional linking group that is capable of binding to the carrier. See
illustrative examples under General Reaction Schemes.
                                         23

[00106]       Additionally, when the happen has a nucleophilic group, for example a
thiol group. an amino group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of
attachment of the spacer, the spacer may also be constructed by alkylation of the
thiol, amine or hydroxyl group. Any alkyl group that is appropriately substituted with
a moiety capable of undergoing a substitution reaction, for example, an alkylI halide,
or sulfonic acid ester such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach the spacer.
Many examples of alkylation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and specific
examples may be found in the general chemical literature and optimized through
routine experimentation. A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references
can be found in Chapter 10 of March's Advanced Organic Chemistry, Smith, M.B.
and March, J., John Wiley & sons, Inc. NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be
employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic moiety. for example an amine, on the
hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or reaction with an isothiocyanate to form a
thiourea linkage, see: Li, Z.. etal., Phosphorus, Sulfur and Silicon and the Related
Elements, 2003, 178(2):293-297. Spacers may be attached to haptens bearing
hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form carbamate or urethane
linkages. The spacer may be differentially activated with the isocyanate functional
group on one end and a functional linking group capable of reacting with the carrier,
see: Annunziato, M.E., Patel, U.S., Ranade, M. and Palumbo. P.S.. Bioconjugate
Chem, 1993, 4:212-218.
[00107]        For haptens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a
spacer portion to the hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl
halide or active ester, examples of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which
are described previously, followed by reaction with an amino (-NH 2-), hydrazino (-NH
NH 2 -), hydrazido (-C(On-NH-NH 2-) or hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to
form an amide. hydrazide, diacyihydrazine or ester linkage, or direct coupling of the
carboxylic acid group with an amino group on the spacer portion or directly on the
carrier with a peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodiimide dehydrating reagent,
described previously, examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5. Procedures
found in references cited previously for formation of activated esters and use of
peptide coupling agents may be employed for attachment of carboxylic acid-bearing
haptens to spacer building blocks and protein carriers with available amino groups
utilizing routine optimization of reaction conditions,
                                             24

[00108]       Table 3
 Na-OS                                                          c          O'
               N-O-              N-    -              F      X=CL B
                   O                o
              0OF                                     F
                                                      F     Acyl        PNP
Sulfo NHS and NHS                          TFP              chloride
[ooIO1]       Table 4
          N0                                       0          0                 N
                   N             N'   P         0    NO                      |   'N   B
                                                  O~t   C                              (CH3)2
          OH                   N                                                O
HOBT                   DEPT                     BOP-Cl                                N(CH 3)g
                                                                       TBTU
[00110]       Table 5
      NCN                           NCN                                 CI
           N                0-                                        Nc
diisopropylcarbodimide     Dicyclohexyicarbodiimide       XNNCN             1-thyl-3(3
(DIC)                      (DCC)                         dimethyaminopropy)carbodiimide.HCI
                                                         (EDC)
[00111]       Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the
spacer, for example, a sulfonyl halide
    0
or electrophilic phosphorous group, for example:
    0
    ORs
See: Malachowski, William P., Coward, James K., Joumal of Organic Chemistry,
1994, 59 (25):7616
or:
    O
    ORc
R0 is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyL
                                               25

See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
[00112]       Haptens that bear aldehyde or ketone groups may be attached to
spacers using methods including but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group
H2N-NH-C(O)- on the spacer to form an acyihydrazone, see: Chamow, S.M., Kogan,
T.P. Peers. D.H., Hastings, R.C., Byrn, R.A. and Askenaszi, A., J. Biol. Chem., 1992,
267(22): 15916. Examples of bifunctional hydrazide spacer groups that allow
attachment to a thiol group on the carrier are shown in Table 6.
[00113]      Table 6
                                                  N-       0
                  N
                                                 0N0       NHNH 2
[00114]       Haptens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the
carrier provided that the carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react
with the thiol. Carrier groups may be modified by methods including but not limited to
attachment of a group containing a maleimide functional group by reaction of an
amino group on the carrier with N-Succinimidyl maleimidoacetate, (AMAS, CAS
#55750-61-3), Succinimidyl iodoacetate (CAS#           151199-81-4), or any of the
bifunctional spacer groups shown in Table I to introduce a group which may undergo
a reaction resulting in attachment of the hapten to the carrier,
[00115]      The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier
may be any group capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a
number of different groups on the carrier. The functional linking group may preferably
react with an amino group, a carboxylic acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or
derivative thereof. Nor-limiting examples of the functional linking group are a
carboxylic acid group, acyl halide, active ester (as defined previously), isocyanate,
isothiocyanate. alkyl halide, amino group, thiol group,      maleimide group, acrylate
group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone group H2 0=CH-S0 2-) See: Park, J.W., etal.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 2012, 23(3): 350. The functional linking group may be present
as part of a differentially activated spacer building block that may be reacted
stepwise with the hapten and the resulting hapten derivative may then be reacted
with the carrier. Alternatively, the hapten may be derivatized with a spacer that bears
                                            26

a precursor group that may be transformed into the functional linking group by a
subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on the spacer is an amine or
a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the carboxylic acid group or amine
on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use of peptide coupling
reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for these reagents,
[001161       Particular disuifide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used
as the functional linking group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a
thiol group on the carrier to from a mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., et al.,
Bioconjugaie Chem., 1990, 1:24-31. These spacers may be attached by reaction of
the amine-bearing hapten with an active ester which is attached to a spacer bearing
the pyridyldisulfide group, examples of which include but are not limited to those
shown in Table 7.
[00117]       Table 7
                                      NS   -     NH     C
                                     S
                     0                     K'
                                                    0
       000
                                  00
                             N            N;
              0H                                                         N-0
      0                                                 o
[00118]       Most often the carrier is a protein and the s-amino groups of the lysine
residues may be used for attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine
reactive functional linking group or after derivitization with a thiol-containing group,
including N-Succinimidyl S-Acetylthioacetate,        (SATA, CAS 76931-93-6), or an
analogue thereof, followed by cleavage of the actetate group with hydroxylamine to
expose the thiol group for reaction with the functional linking group on the hapten.
Thiol groups may also be introduced into the carrier by reduction of disulfide bonds
within protein carriers with mild reducing reagents including but not limited to 2
mercaptoethylamine, see: Bilah, M.. et.al., Bioelectrochemistry, 2010, 80(1):49,
phosphine reagents, see: Kirley, TL., Analytical Biochemistry, 1989, 180(2):231 or
dithioerythritol (DTT, CAS 3483-12-3) Cleland, W.,Biochemistry, 1964, 3:480-482.
                                              27

[00119]        GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
[00120]        Compounds useful for producing antibodies according to the subject
invention can be synthesized in accordance with the general synthetic methods
described below. Compounds of Formula (i) can be prepared by methods known to
those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction schemes are only meant to
represent examples of the invention and are in no way meant to be a limit of the
invention.
[00121]        Attachment of a spacer to the parent ring structure of risperidone may be
accomplished through use of the silyl-protected starting compound shown in Scheme
1, the preparation of which is described in Example 1. Alkylation with an N-protected
haloalkyl derivative is also described in Example 1. N-protected haloalky derivatives
of varying chain lengths are commercially available or may be made by standard
organic reactions known to one skilled in the art. Preferred values for r are between
1 and 5. Deprotection as described in Example 1 may provide the amino compound
which may be further elaborated to attach additional spacer atoms or may be linked
directly to the carrier. Derivatives of the amino compound which lack the hydroxyl
group in final product may be made as described in Example 3.
{00122]        Scheme 1
                                       N-0                 0
              0                              /    '-' 'N '    0-aikyl
                                    \H i,
           LoN                  NN
             0          N                                             deprolectiori
                  N N                 N           0
                                                  "Nl    --alkyl
                                                    H
             N
        a0                      N-0
               0        N                           NH ,
        OH
[00123]        Alkylation of risperidone may also be accomplished using a thiol, for
example, 3-mercaptomethylpropionate, using the method of Wang, J., L., et.al,,
                                               28

Bioorganic and Med. Chem. Letters, 2010, 20:7159, using K2C0 3 in DMF followed by
hydrolysis with NaOH in aqueous THF, as shown in Scheme 2, to provide an
analogue of the hapten that bears a thioaikyl linkage terminating in a carboxy group
that may be attached directly to a carrier or further elaborated to extend the spacer
portion. Alkylation with an amine may be carried out also as shown in Scheme 2,
according to the method used to make intermediate 535 in US20110245224.
Versions of the aminoalkyl or thioalkyl analogues of Scheme 2 in which RI is either
OH or H may be made through routine optimization of the chemical procedures
taught in the aforementioned references by a skilled chemist.
[00124]      Scheme 2
                                                               N-O
                                                       0                s '-Co2H
                    1) HS'           2CO>H3  R4
                               K2CO
                               DMF
                         /
     N          N'1)-                       HNyrCoCH3
                                                                    ./N
                           2) Hydrolysis           N     N
                                            RI
[00125]      The phenolic hydroxyl group of the starting compound shown in Scheme
3, wherein R1 is either H or a silyl-protected alcohol, may be the site of introduction
of a group that bears a functional linking group for attachment to a carrier. The
phenolic compound may be reacted directly with succinic anhydride as shown in
Scheme 3 and described in US20060251592 to provide a carboxy-bearing
intermediate, or may be reacted with an isocyanate bifunctional spacer, as shown in
Scheme 4, according to the Annunziato              reference provided elsewhere in this
disclosure to provide a hapten that bears a thiol-reactive functional linker.
                                                29

Deprotection as described in subsequent examples is required when R1 is a silyl
protected alcohol.
[00126]       Scheme 3
                                   1
        0                    /   HPyridr!
                 N
                                 2) deprotect if R =OTBDMS
        N
                       N-0
  R'
                         N                             NCOCH
[00127]       Scheme 4
  R 1O        NN
                                       <A
                    N     \/     OH
     N                            2) cdprotct if RLOCTRDMS
       N
                                                     0
            0                 \/1oil      N            0
         NI
            N
                                       30

[00128]     Scheme 5
                                                            0
                                                        0
                        N-0
                                       NH2    IDEA, diethyl cyanophosphonate
     N          N                                            or
                                                                 0    0
       NN
              1*DMF,                               BusN,       N
                                                           o               0
                                            0
       O        NN
               NtN
  R
[001291     Scheme 5 illustrates how haptens with spacers which terminate in an
alkyl amine group, such as Examples I and 2. may be further functionalized with a
maleimide group. The maleimide may be introduced by any method known in the art.
For example, reaction with N-maleoyl-substituted alkyi amino acid in a solvent such
as dichiorormethane and coupling reagents such as diisopropylethylamine and
diethyl cyanophosphonate gives the maleimide functionalized spacer on the hapten.
Reaction of the risperidone derived amine with alkyi-maleimide functionalizing group,
such as 2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-y 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yi)acetate, in a
solvent such as DMF, in the presence of a base, such as tributylamine, at room
temperature for about an hour, generates haptens with a maleimide functionalized
spacer.
                                         31

[00130]      Scheme 6
                         N              NH2
      N
  R
                                           0  9
                                       HNA'      OH
                                  O
     N
  R'
[00131]      Haptens with spacers which terminate in an alkyl amine group may be
elaborated by reaction with a cyclic anhydride compound, such as succinic anhydride
or glutaric anhydride, as shown in Scheme 6. The reaction may be carried out in a
solvent such as THF, at room temperature, overnight.
                                          32

[00132]      Scheme 7
                                  0
                             WND       S  CH,
 PROTEINH2                                          PROTEW-N        SH
                                                              H
                     2.     HN-OH
                                         H     0
                                            0
                                         HNPTEIrn
          N- 1_NN                                  0
       N_
                                                     S      H
                                  N0 ~     ~
                                         HN'r     ~4    oNPROTEIN
                   N
        _N
    R1
[00133]      Maleimide functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins
according to the method shown in Scheme 7. Activation of protein lysine residues by
acylation of the epsilon-nitrogen with N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA),
followed by subsequent hydrolysis of the S-acetyl group with hydroxylamine
produces a nucleophilic sulfhydryl group.      Conjugation of the sulfhydryl activated
protein with the maleimide derivatized hapten (prepared as described in general
scheme 5) proceeds via a Michael addition reaction. Suitable proteins are known to
those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin,
and ovalbumin.
                                           33

[00134]      Scheme 8
                                            o  a                01
       NN                                               DCCDMF
                        NNN
              R0                                            PROTEIN-NH2
       NN         N       N
            oN                 0        HNAPROTENN
                                         o'o                   EIWNH
                                                            PROT-1N-R0
                                             0  0
   R1
[00135]      Carboxylic acid functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins
according to the method shown in Scheme 8. Reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide
and a suitable coupling agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC), arnd a base,
such as tributyiamine. in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of about 20"C, for
about 18 hours, activates the- carboxylic acid with the N-hydroxysuccinimnide leaving
group. The activated spacer and hapten may then be conjugated to a protein in a
solvent such as pH 7.5 phosphate buffer, at about 204C for about 2.5 hours. Suitable
proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet
hemocyanin,bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin.
ANTIBODIES
[00136]      The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to risperidlone and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
                                           34

competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(I). The term "antibody" refers to a specific protein capable of binding an antigen or
portion thereof (in accordance with this invention, capable of binding to an anti
psychotic drug or metabolite thereof). An antibody is produced in response to an
immunogen which may have been introduced into a host, e.g., an animal or a human,
by injection. The generic term "antibody" includes polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies, and antibody fragments.
[00137]       "Antibody" or "antigen-binding antibody fragment refers to an Intact
antibody, or a fragment thereof, that competes with the intact antibody for binding.
Generally speaking, an antibody or antigen-binding antibody fragment. is said to
specifically bind an antigen when the dissociation constant is less than or equal to 1
pM, preferably less than or equal to 100 nM and most preferably less than or equal to
10 nM. Binding can be measured by methods know to those skilled in the art, an
example being the use of a BlAcoreTM instrument.
[00138]       Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody, preferably
the antigen binding or variable region of the intact antibody.       Binding fragments
include Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies: single
chain antibody molecules; and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody
fragments.     An antibody other than a "bispecific" or "bifunctional" antibody is
understood to have each of its binding sites identical.
[00139]       As used herein, "epitope" includes any protein determinant capable of
specific binding to an immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor.        Epitopic determinants
usually consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino
acids or sugar side chains and usually have specific three dimensional structural
characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics. Two antibodies are said to
"bind the same epitope" if one antibody is shown to compete with the second
antibody in a competitive binding assay, by any of the methods well known to those
skilled in the art (such as the BIAcoreTM method referred to above). In reference to a
hapten (such as risperidone or other anti-psychotic drug), an antibody can be
generated against the non-antigenic hapten molecule by conjugating the hapten to
an immunogenic carrier.        An antibody is then generated which recognizes an
"epitope" defined by the hapten.
[00140]       "isolated" when used in the context of an antibody means altered "by the
hand of man" from any natural state; i.e., that, if it occurs in nature. it has been
                                           35

changed or removed from its original environment, or both. For example, a naturally
occurring antibody naturally present in a living animal in its natural state is not
"isolated", but the same antibody separated from the coexisting materials of its
natural state is isolatedt as the term is employed herein. Antibodies may occur in a
composition, such as an immunoassay reagent, which are not naturally occurring
compositions, and therein remain isolated antibodies within the meaning of that term
as it is employed herein.
[00141]       "Cross-reactivity' refers to the reaction of an antibody with an antigen
that was not used to induce that antibody.
[00142]       Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention will bind to the drug and
any desired pharinacologically active metabolites.       By altering the location of the
attachment of the immunogenic carrier to the compounds of the invention, selectivity
and cross-reactivity with metabolites can be engineered into the antibodies.          For
risperidone,     cross-reactivity    with   risperidone   metabolites     such    as    9
hydroxyrisperidone (paliperidone, which is also administered as an anti-psychotic
drug), 7-hydroxyrisperidone, and N-dealkylirisperdone may or may not be desirable.
An antibody that cross-reacts with risperidone and paliperidone may be desirable,
which does not react with 7-hydroxyrisperidone or N-dealkylrisperidone, thus
detecting    risperidone    and    its   major   pharmacologically    active   metabolite.
Alternatively, it may be desirable to detect the pharmacologically active melabolites,
risperidone and paliperidone, separately, while still not detecting the inactive
metabolites, 7-hydroxyrisperidone and N-dealkylrisperidone.          Antibodies may be
generated that detect multiple ones of these drugs and/or metabolites, or antibodies
may be generated that detect each separately (thus defining the antibody "specific
binding" properties). An antibody specifically binds one or more compounds when its
binding of the one or more compounds is equimolar or substantially equimolar.
[0143]        Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with
the conjugate described herein. Suitable hosts include. but are not limited to, mice,
rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, chickens, donkeys, horses, monkeys,
chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas, humans, and any species capable of mounting a
mature immune response. The immunization procedures are well established in the
art and are set forth in numerous treatises and publications including "The
Immunoassay Handbook", 2nd Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing
Group, 2000) and the references cited therein.
                                             36

[00144]      Preferably, an immunogen embodying features of the present invention
is administered to a host subject, e.g., an animal or human, in combination with an
adjuvant.    Suitable adjuvants include, but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant,
powdered aluminum hydroxide (alum), aluminum hydroxide together with Bordetella
pertussis, and monophosphoryl lipid A-synthetic trehalose dicorynomycolate (MPL
TDM).
[00145]      Typically, an immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an
adjuvant is injected into a mammalian host by one or multiple subcutaneous or
intraperitoneal injections. Preferably, the immunization program is carried out over at
least one week, and more preferably, over two or more weeks. Polyclonal antibodies
produced in this manner can be isolated and purified utilizing methods well know in
the art.
[00146]      Monoclonal antibodies can        be produced    by the welkestablished
hybridoma methods of Kohler and Milstein, e.g., Nature 256:495-497 (1975),
Hybridoma methods typically involve immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host,
haresting the monoclonal antibody secreting or having the potential to secrete
lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes to immortalized cells, and selecting cells that
secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
[00147]      A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are
capable of producing antibodies specific for an immunogen.            Alternatively, the
lymphocytes can be immunized in vitro. If human cells are desired, peripheral blood
lymphocytes can be used, although spleen cells or lymphocytes from other
mammalian sources are preferred.
[00148]      The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form
hybridoma cells, a process which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g.,
polyethylene glycol. By way of illustration, mutant rodent, bovine, or human myeloma
cells immortalized by transformation can be used. Substantially pure populations of
hybridoma cells, as opposed to unfused immortalized cells, are preferred. Thus.
following fusion, the cells can be grown in a suitable medium that inhibits the growh
or survival of infused, immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant myeloma
cells that lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase
(HGPRT).     In such an instance, hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine can be
added to the medium (HAT medium) to prevent the growth of HGPRT-deficient cells
while permitting hybridomas to grow.
                                            37

[00149]       Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed
populations by selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level
expression of antibody following fusion. Preferred immortalized cell lines include
myeloma cell lines available from the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
VA.
[001501       Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody extracellularly, the
culture media can be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for
the anti-psychotic drug. Immunoprecipitation of in vitro binding assays, for example,
radiioimmunoassay (RIA) or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), can be
used to measure the binding specificity of monoclonal antibodies,
[001511       Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single
clones by limiting dilution procedures and sub-cultured.          Suitable culture media
include, but are not limited to, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium, RPMI-1640, and
polypeptide-free, polypeptide-reduced, or serum-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or
HL-1, available from Biowhittaker, Walkersville, MD. Aitematively, the hybridoma
cells can be grown in vivo as ascites.
[001521       Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and/or purified from a culture
medium or ascites fluid by conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) purification procedures
including,   but    not  limited  to,  polypeptide A-SEPHAROSE,            hydroxylapatite
chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and
affinity chromatography.
[001531       Monocional antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods
such as are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,166.452. DNA encoding monoclonal
antibodies can be isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures, e.g., using
oligonucleotide probes that specifically bind to murine heavy and light antibody chain
genes, preferably to probe DNA isolated from monoclonal antibody hybridoma cells
lines secreting antibodies specific for anti-psychotic drugs.
[00154]      Antibody fragments which contain specific binding sites for the anti
psychotic drug may also be generated. Such fragments include, but are not limited
to, the F(ab') 2 fragments which can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody
molecule and the Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide
bridges of the F(ab') 2 fragments.     Alternatively, Fab expression libraries may be
constructed to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with
the desired specificity (Huse et al. Science 256:1270~1281 (1989)). Fab, Fv and
                                             38

ScFv antibody fragments can all be expressed in and secreted from Escherichia coli,
allowing for the production of large amounts of these fragments. Alternatively, Fab
SH fragments can be directly recovered from E coli and chemically coupled to form
F(ab')2 fragments (Carter et al., BioTechnology 10:163-167 (1992)).               Other
techniques for the production of antibody fragments are known to those skilled in the
art. Single chain Fv fragments (scFv) are also envisioned (see U.S. Patent Nos.
5,761,894 and 5,587,458). Fv and sFv fragments are the only species with intact
combining sites that are devoid of constant regions; thus, they are likely to show
reduced non-specific binding. The antibody fragment may also be a "linear antibody"
e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No. 5,642,870 for example. Such linear antibody
fragments may be monospecific or bispecific.
ASSAY KITS AND DEVICES
[00155]      An assay kit (also referred to as a reagent kit) can also be provided
comprising an antibody as described above.          A representative reagent kit may
comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug, risperidone, a complex
comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative thereof coupled to a
labeling moiety, and may optionally also comprise one or more calibrators comprising
a known amount of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
[00156]      The phrase "assay kit" refers to an assembly of materials and reagents
that is used in performing an assay. The reagents can be provided in packaged
combination in the same or in separate containers, depending on their cross
reactivities and stabilities, and in liquid or in lyophilized form. The amounts and
proportions of reagents provided in the kit can be selected so as to provide optimum
results for a particular application. An assay kit embodying features of the present
invention comprises antibodies which bind risperidone. The kit may further comprise
competitive binding partners of risperidone and calibration and control materials.
[00157]      The phrase "calibration and control material" refers to any standard or
reference material containing a known amount of an analyze. A sample suspected of
containing an analyte and the corresponding calibration material are assayed under
similar conditions, The concentration of analyte is calculated by comparing the
results obtained for the unknown specimen with the results obtained for the standard.
This is commonly done by constructing a calibration curve.
                                            39

[00158]       Antibodies embodying features of the present invention can be included
in a kit, container, pack, or dispenser together with instructions for their utilization.
When the antibodies are supplied in a kit, the different components of the
immunoassay may be packaged in separate containers and admixed prior to use.
Such packaging of the components separately may permit long-term storage without
substantially diminishing the functioning of the active components.         Furthermore.
reagents can be packaged under inert environments, e.g., under a positive pressure
of nitrogen gas, argon gas, or the like. which is especially preferred for reagents that
are sensitive to air and/or moisture.
[00159]       Reagents included in kits embodying features of the present invention
can be supplied in all manner of containers such that the activities of the different
components are substantially preserved while the components themselves are not
substantially adsorbed or altered by the materials of the container.             Suitable
containers include, but are not limited to, ampules. bottles, test tubes, vials, flasks.
syringes, envelopes, e.g., foil-lined, and the like. The containers may be comprised
of any suitable material including, but not limited to, glass, organic polymers, e.g.,
polycarbonate. polystyrene, polyethylene, etc, ceramic, metal, e.g., aluminum, metal
alloys, e.g., steel, cork, and the like. In addition, the containers may comprise one or
more sterile access ports, e.g., for access via a needle. such as may be provided by
a septum. Preferred materials for septa include rubber and polytetrafluoroethylene of
the type sold under the trade name TEFLON by DuPont (Wilmington, DE).                  In
addition. the containers may comprise two or more compartments separated by
partitions or membranes that can be removed to allow mixing of the components.
[00160]       Reagent kits embodying features of the present invention may also be
supplied with instructional materials, Instructions may be printed, e.g., on paper
and/or supplied in an electronically-readable medium. Alternatively, instructions may
be provided by directing a user to an internet website, e.g., specified by the
manufacturer or distributor of the kit and/or via electronic mail.
[00161]       The antibody may also be provided as part of an assay device. Such
assay devices include lateral flow assay devices. A common type of disposable
lateral flow assay device includes a zone or area for receiving the liquid sample, a
conjugate zone, and a reaction zone. These assay devices are commonly known as
lateral flow test strips. They employ a porous material, e.g., nitrocellulose, defining a
path for fluid flow capable of supporting capillary flow.        Examples include those
                                             40

shown in US Patent Nos. 5,559,041, 5,714,389, 5,120,643, and 6,228,660 all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00162]      Another type of assay device is a non-porous assay device having
projections to induce capillary flow. Examples of such assay devices include the
open lateral flow device as disclosed in PCT International Publication Nos. WO
2003/103835, WO 2005/089082, WO 2005/118139, and WO 2006/137785, all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00163]       In a non-porous assay device, the assay device generally has at least
one sample addition zone, at least one conjugate zone, at least one reaction zone,
and at least one wicking zone. The zones form a flow path by which sample flows
from the sample addition zone to the wicking zone.            Also included are capture
elements, such as antibodies, in the reaction zone, capable of binding to the analyte,
optionally deposited on the device (such as by coating); and a labeled conjugate
material also capable of participating in reactions that will enable determination of the
concentration of the analyte, deposited on the device in the conjugate zone, wherein
the labeled conjugate material carries a label for detection in the reaction zone. The
conjugate material is dissolved as the sample flows through the conjugate zone
forming a conjugate plume of dissolved labeled conjugate material and sample that
flows downstream to the reaction zone.          As the conjugate plume flows into the
reaction zone, the conjugated material will be captured by the capture elements such
as via a complex of conjugated material and analyte (as in a "sandwich" assay) or
directly (as in a "competitive" assay). Unbound dissolved conjugate material will be
swept past the reaction zone into the at least one wicking zone. Such devices can
include projections or micropillars in the flow path.
[00164]      An instrument such as that disclosed in US Patent Publication Nos.
US20060289787A1 and US 20070231883A1, and US Patent Nos. 7,416,700 and
6,139,800, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties, is able
to detect the bound conjugated material in the reaction zone.            Common labels
include fluorescent dyes that can be detected by instruments which excite the
fluorescent dyes and incorporate a detector capable of detecting the fluorescent
dyes.
                                             41

IMMUNOASSAYS
[00165]       The antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to
recognize/bind to the anti-psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or
amount of the drug in a patient sample. Preferably, the assay format is a competitive
immunoassay format. Such an assay format and other assays are described, among
other places, in Hampton et a. (Serological Methods, A Laboratory Manual, APS
Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and Maddox et al. (J. Exp. Med. 158:12111, 1983).
[00166]       The term "analyte" refers to any substance or group of substances, the
presence or amount of which is to be determined.           Representative anti-psychotic
drug analytes include, but are not limited to, risperidone, paliperidone, olanzapine,
aripiprazole, and quetiapine.
{00167]       The term "competitive binding partner" refers to a substance or group of
substances, such as may be employed in a competitive immunoassay, which behave
similarly to an analyte with respect to binding affinity to an anybody. Representative
competitive binding partners include, but are not limited to, anti-psychotic drug
derivatives and the like.
[00168j       The term "detecting" when used with an analyte refers to any
quantitative, semi-quantitative, or qualitative method as well as to all other methods
for determining an analyte in general, and an anti-psychotic drug in particular. For
example. a method that merely detects the presence or absence of an anti-psychotic
drug in a sample lies within the scope of the present invention, as do methods that
provide data as to the amount or concentration of the anti-psychotic drug in the
sample. The terms "detecting", "determining", "identifying", and the like are used
synonymously herein, and all lie within the scope of the present invention.
[00169]       A preferred embodiment of the subject invention is a competitive
immunoassay wherein antibodies which bind the anti-psychotic drug, or the drug or
competitive binding partner thereof, are attached to a solid support (such as the
reaction zone in a lateral flow assay device) and labeled drug or competitive binding
partner thereof, or labeled antibody, respectively. and a sample derived from the host
are passed over the solid support and the amount of label detected attached to the
solid support can be correlated to a quantity of drug in the sample.
[00170]       Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyte, e.g., an anti
psychotic drug, can be analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently
preferred embodiments.       The sample can be pretreated if desired and can be
                                           42

prepared in any convenient medium that does not interfere with the assay.        Preferably, the
sample comprises an aqueous medium such as a body fluid from a host, most preferably
plasma or serum.
[00171]         It is to be understood that all manner of immunoassays employing antibodies
are contemplated for use in accordance with the presently preferred embodiments, including
assays in which antibodies are bound to solid phases and assays in which antibodies are in
liquid media. Methods of immunoassays that can be used to detect analytes using antibodies
embodying features of the present invention include, but are not limited to, competitive
(reagent limited) assays wherein labeled analyte (analyte analog) and analyte in a sample
compete for antibodies and single-site immunometric assays wherein the antibody is labeled;
and the like.
[00172]        The present invention is further described by the following examples.        The
examples are provided solely to illustrate the invention by reference to specific embodiments.
These exemplifications, while illustrating certain specific aspects of the invention, do not
portray the limitations or circumscribe the scope of the disclosed invention.
[00173]        All examples were carried out using standard techniques, which are well known
and routine to those of skill in the art, except where otherwise described in detail.   Routine
molecular biology techniques of the following examples can be carried out as described in
standard laboratory manuals, such as Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Habor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1989).
[00174]         Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3265USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,450, (US 20140163206), filed
August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3266USPSP, US
Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,454, (US 20140213766), filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens
of Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No.
61/691,459, (US 20140213767), filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Quetiapine" (Attorney
Docket    No.    PRD3268USPSP,        US   Provisional   Patent   Appl.   No. 61/691,462,   (US
20140221616), filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Risperidone and Paliperidone" (Attorney
Docket    No.    PRD3269USPSP,        US   Provisional   Patent   Appl.   No. 61/691,469,   (US
20140155585), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Olanzapine Haptens and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5132USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,572, (US
20140057303), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone Haptens and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5126USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,634, filed
August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5134USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,598, (US 20140059305), filed

August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone Haptens and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5130USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,615, (US 20140057301), filed
August 21,     2012), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5129USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,522, (US 20140057300), filed
August 21,     2012), "Antibodies to Olanzapine and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5133USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,645, (US 20140057309), filed
August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5127USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,692, (US 20140057298), filed
August 21,     2012), "Antibodies to Quetiapine and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5135USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,659, (US 20140057306), filed
August 21,     2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5131USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,675, (US 20140057302), filed
August 21, 2012), and "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5145USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/790,880, (US 20140057302), filed
March 15, 2013) are all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties
                                              EXAMPLE 1
[00175]         Step A
9-((tert-butyldimethylsilyl)oxy)-3-(2-chloroethyl)-2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2
a]pyrimidin-4-one
              0
                         Cl
           -N
[00176]         A    solution    of   3-(2-chloroethyl)-9-hydroxy-2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H
pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one (1.0 g, 4.12 mmol) in DMF (5 mL) was treated with IH-imidazole
(701.24 mg, 64.66 mmol), followed by a solution of t-butyldimethylchlorosilane (683.12 mg,
4.53 mmol) in DMF (1 mL).         After stirring for 18h at room temperature, the solvents were
removed under vacuum and the residue was taken up in dichloromethane / water (10 mL / 10
mL) with addition of a spatula of

potassium carbonate, The aqueous laver was extracted with dichloromethane (three
times 10 mL). The combined organic fractions were dried over Na2 SO4, filtered, and
the solvent was removed under vacuum. The crude mixture was used without further
purification in the next step. (ESI-MS (M+1) 357).
[001771       Step B
9-((tert-butyldirnethylsilyl)oxy)-3-(2-(4-(6-hydroxybenzo[disoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1
yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-ajpyrimidin-4-one
                               N-0
                       IN                 OH
            N
[00178]       A solution of 9-((tert-butydimethylsilyl)oxy)-3~(2-chioroethyI)2-methyi
6,7,8,9-tetrahvdro-4Hpyrido[1,2-ajpyrimidin-4-one.       prepared as described in the
previous step, (0.5 g, 140 mmol) in methanol (25 mL) and diisopropylethylamine
(73283 pL, 4.20 mmol) was treated with 3-(piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6-oI
hydrochloride salt (374.62 mg. 1.47 mmol). and the reaction mixture was stirred for
17h at 60 *C under argon. Diisopropylethylanine (732.83 pL, 4.20 mmol) was added
and the mixture was stirred additionally for 4h at 60 'C. The reaction mixture was
evaporated under vacuum and the residue was taken up in water (25 mL), extracted
with chloroform (3 x 25 mL). The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO,
filtered, and the solvent was removed under vacuum. The residue was purified by
silica gel chromatography (elution with dichloromethane/methanol (98/2) to give the
title compound (ESI-MS (M+1) 539).
[00179]       Step C
tert-butyl           (2-((3-(1-(2-(9-((tert-butyidimethylsilyl)oxy)-2-methy-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-ajpyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin~4-y)benzo[d]isoxazol-6
yl)oxy)ethyl)carbamate
                                              45

                                N-0         H    SD
                    N      J
           Ni       N
       '0
   Si
[00180]       A       solution       of        9-((tert-butyldimethylsilyl)oxy)-3-(2-(4-(6
hydroxybenzo[d~isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H
pyrido[1.2-a]pyrimidin-4-one, prepared as described in the previous step, (50 mg,
0.093 mmol) in acetone (0,5 mL) and DMF (0.5 mL) was treated with potassium
carbonate (33.3 mg, 0.24 mmol) and N-Boc-2-bromoaminoethane (27 mg, 0.12
mmol). and the reaction mixture was stirred for 17h at 60 '           under argon.     The
reaction mixture was evaporated at 40 "C under reduced pressure and dissolved in
water (10 mL) and extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 10 mL). The organic layers
were combined, dried over Na2SO4, filtered, and the solvent was evaporated yield the
crude title compound. (ESI-MS (M+l) 682).
[001811       Step D
3-(2-(4-(6-(2-aminoethoxy)benzod]isoxazol-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-9-hydroxy-2
methyl-6.7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido{1,2-alpyrimidin-4-one
                                         NH2
         0
   CN
        N
  OH
[00182]       A solution of tert-butyl    (2-((3-(1-(2-(9-((tert-butydimethylsilyl)oxy)-2
rmethyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrdo[1.2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4
yl)benzo[djisoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)carbamate, prepared as described in the previous
step, (70 mg, 0.103 mmol) in HCI/isopropanol (10 mL, 5 N) was stirred for 1h at 60
"C. The reaction mixture was evaporated at 40 'C under reduced pressure and
dissolved carefully in aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution (5 ml-) and
extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 10 mL). The combined organic layers were
dried over Na 2SO 4, filtered, and evaporated under reduced pressure at 40 'C. The
aqueous layer still contained product, which was recovered by evaporating the
                                           46

aqueous layer to dryness at 40 *C under reduced pressure. The resulting residue
from the aqueous layer was re-dissolved in water and brought over a conditioned
Waters Oasis SPE (6cc) column and afterwards eluted with methanol. The methanol
elution fraction was combined with the residue of the dichioromethane extraction and
evaporated to dryness at 40 *C under reduced pressure to yield the titie compound
along with a side product (ESI-MS (M+1) 468; side product being 5% 9-hydroxy-3-(2~
(4-(6-hydroxvbenzo[djisoxazoi-3-yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-6,7,8.9-tetrahydro
4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one (M+1) 425). The mixture was used in the next step
without additional purification.
                                       EXAMPLE 2
2-(2,5-dioxo-2.5-dhydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(9-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1.2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyljpiperidin-4
yi)benzo[diisoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide
                          N-0
                          'i
        0
                  N
                  N                    RN
        N
   OH                                         Njj
              OHO
                                              0
[001831       To    a    solution   of   3-(2-(4-(6-(2-aninoethoxy)benzo[d]isoxazol-3
yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-9-hydroxy-2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1.2
a]pyrimidin-4-one, prepared as described in Example 1, (4.0 mg, 8.5 poles) in 215
pL of DMF and 4.3 pL of tributylamine was added 214 pl of a DMF solution of N-(a
maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester (AMAS, 10 mg/mL, 2.1 mg. 8.5 pmoles). The
resulting solution was allowed to stir for 60 minutes at 20 0C, then used as such in
conjugation reaction with thiol-activated protein.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
[00184]       Step A
3-(2-(4-(6-hydroxybenzodlisoxazol-3-vl)piperidin-1 -yl)ethyl)-2-methy-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-4-one
                                           47

             0              N-0
              0                       OH
    CN
[00185]        A solution of 3~(2-chloroethyr)-2-methy-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2
a]pyrimidin-4-one (14.4 g, 0.05 mmol), 3-(piperidin-4-yijbenzo[dlisoxazoW6-ot (14.0 g,
0.05 mmol), sodium carbonate (16.0 g, 0.15 mmol) and potassium iodide (spatula
point) in DMF (150 mL) was stirred for Sh at 80 *C. The mixture was allowed to cool
down to room temperature and water was added. The precipitate was removed by
filtration, and the filtrate was extracted with chloroform (3 x 100 mL). The combined
organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated. The residue was
crystallized     with   isopropyl  alcohol    (70   mL),  filtered, and   washed     with
isopropanol/diisopropyl ether 50/50 mixture (10 mL).             The residue was dried
overnight at 100 "C yielding the title compound and was used without further
purification in the next step.
[00186]        Step B
3-(2-(4-(6-(2-aminoethoxy)benzo[d]isoxazo-3-y)piperidin-1-yi)ethyi)-2-methyl
6,789-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido1 .2-aipyrimidin-4-one
                            N-0
                00
         N                                NH2
[00187]        A     solution   of    3-(2-(4-(6-hydroxybenzofdjisoxazol3-y)piperidin-1
yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-6,7,8.9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-alpyrimidin-4-one,     prepared   as
described in the previous step, (6.6 g, 0.015 mmol) in DMF (50 mL) and acetone (50
ml-) was treated with potassium carbonate (3.0 g, 0.03 mmol) and ethyl (2
bromoethyl)carbamate (2.4 g, 0.015 mmoi). After stirring overnight at 60 *C. the
reaction mixture was poured in water (150 mL), extracted with chloroform (3 x 100
mL). The combined organic layers were dried over Na2SO4. filtered, concentrated,
and purified by silica gel chromatography (elution with dichloromethane/methanol
(90/10). The combined fractions were treated with HBr (150 mL, 48%) and heated to
reilux for 30 min. The mixture was allowed to cool down to room temperature and
made basic with ammonium hydroxide (28% NH, in H2 0) and extracted with
                                              48

chloroform (3 x 100 mL). The combined organic layers were dried over Na2SO 4,
filtered, concentrated, and purified by silica gel chromatography (gradient elution with
dichloromethane/methanol (90/10 to 50150) resulting in a solid which was dissolved
in isopropanol (50 mL) and treated with isopropanol/HCI.           The precipitate was
removed by filtration and washed with iPrOH/diisopropyl ether (50/50, 3 x 20 mL).
The precipitate was dried under vacuum to yield the title compound ESI-MS (M+1)
452. 'H NMR (360 MHz, DMSO-de)            ppm 1.76 - 1.85 (m, 1 H) 1.87 - 1.96 (m. 1 H)
2.19 (d, J=12.81 Hz, 1 H) 2.37 - 2.48 (m, 4 H) 2.98 - 3.10 (m, 3 H) 3.10 - 3.28 (m, 5
H) 3.37 - 3.46 (i, 3 H) 3.72 (d. J=11.34 Hz, 3 H) 3.79 - 3.85 (m, 2 H) 4.31 (!, J=4.94
Hz. 1 H) 7.05 (dd, J=8.78, 1.83 Hz, 1 H) 7.35 - 7.39 (m, 1 H) 8.08 (d, J=8.78 Hz, I
H).
                                       EXAMPLE 4
2-(2,5-dioxo-25-dihydro-1 H-pyrro-I-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(2~niethy!-4-oxo-6,7,8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1 2-alpyrinidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6
yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide
                  NNN
            IN        11
[00188]       To    a     solution  of    3-(2-(4-(6-(2-aminoethoxy)benzo[d]isoxazol-3
yl)piperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-2-methyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-ajpyrimidin-4-one,
prepared as described in Example 3. (3.4 mg, 7.58 pmoles) in 185 pL of DMF and
3.7    pL of tributylamine was added          190 pL of a DMF        solution of N-(a
maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester (AMAS, 10 mgiimL, 1.9 mg, 7.58 poless. The
resulting solution was allowed to stir for 90 minutes at 20 *C, then used as such in
conjugation reaction with thiol-activated protein.
                                       EXAMPLE 5
2-(2,5-dioxo-2.5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrohl1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(9-hydroxy-2-nethyl-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1 2-alpyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4
                                             49

yl)benzo[djisoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetanide -       keyhole    limpet   hemocyanin -
conjugate
[00189]       Step A
[00190]      To a 4.22 mL solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH, 18.0 mg, 0.18
pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0:46M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4 was added
83.2 pL of a DMF solution of N-succinimidyl-S-acetyithioacetate (SATA. 25 mg/mL,
2.1 mg, 9.0 moless.      The resulting solution was incubated at 20   4C for 1 hour on a
roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM
phosphate buffer, 0.46 M sodium chloride, 5 mM EDTA, at pH 6.0.
[00191]       Step B
[001921      To 9.37 mL of KLH-SATA solution, prepared as described in Step A,
(17.1 me, 0.171 moles) was added 937 pL of 2.5 M hydroxylamine, 50 mM EDTA,
at pH 7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 00 for 40 minutes on a roller
mixer.   The reaction was used as such in conjugation reaction with maleimide
activated hapten.
[00193]       Step C
[001941      To an aliquot of the resulting KLH-SH solution, prepared as described in
Step B, (3.4mL, 0.058 pmoles) was added an aliquot of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H
pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(9-hydroxy-2-methyl4-oxo-6.7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H
pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6
yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide solution, prepared as described in Example 2, (282.8 pL, 5.0
moless. The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 3 hours at 20 *C on a roller
mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on a
Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium chloride, at
pH 7.4.
                                       EXAMPLE 6
2-(2,5-dioxo-2.5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(9-hydroxy-2-rnethyl-4-oxo
6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[l2-apyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4
yl)benzo[dlisoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide - bovine thyroglobulin - conjugate
[00195]       Step A
[00196]      To 1.0 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, 9.3 mg, 0.014
pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 was added 132 pl- of a DMF solution
of N-succinimidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, 25 mg/mL, 3.3 mg, 14.1 pmoles). The
                                            50

resulting solution was incubated at 20 "C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. The reaction
was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, , 5mM
EDTA, at pH 6.0.
[00197]       Step B
[001981       To 2.11 mL of BTG-SATA solution, prepared as described in Step A, (7.4
mg, 0.011 pmoles) was added 211 pL of 2.5 M hydroxylamine, 50 mM EDTA, at pH
7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 "C for 60 minutes on a roller mixer.
The reaction was used as such in conjugation reaction with maleimide-activated
hapten.
[00199]       Step C
[002001       To an aliquot of the resulting BTG-SH solution, prepared as described in
Step B, (2.3mL, 0.011 pmoles) was added an aliquot of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2.5-dihydro-1 H
pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(9-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-oxo-6.7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H
pyrido[1,2-alpyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6
yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide solution, prepared as described in Example 2, (280.4 pL, 5.5
pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5 hours at 20 OC on a
roller mixer, The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on
a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride, at
pH 7.4.
                                       EXAMPLE 7
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7.8,9
tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzofd]isoxazol-6
yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide - keyhole limpet hemocyanin - conjugate
[00201]       To an aliquot of KLH-SH solution, prepared as described in Example 5
Step B, (1.5mL, 0.025 pmoles) was added an aliquot of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro
1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2
a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetanide
solution, prepared as described in Example 4. (113 pL, 2.26 moless.        The resulting
cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5 hours at 20 *C on a roller mixer. The reaction
was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column
using 100 mM phosphate buffer, and 0.46M sodium chloride, at pH 7.4.
                                            51

                                            EXAMPLE 8
2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1 -yi)-N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H
pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin-4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide
bovine thyroglobulin - conjugate
[00202 ]        To an aliquot of BTG-SH solution, prepared as described in Example 6 Step B,
(0.63mL, 0.0033 pmoles) was added an aliquot of of 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)
N-(2-((3-(1-(2-(2-methyl-4-oxo-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-4H-pyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)ethyl)piperidin
4-yl)benzo[d]isoxazol-6-yl)oxy)ethyl)acetamide solution, prepared as described in Example 4
(80 pL, 1.6 pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5 hours at 20 *C on a
roller mixer.   The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on a
Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, and 0.14M sodium chloride, at pH
7.4.
                                            EXAMPLE 9
Competitive     Immunoassays      for   Risperidone/Paliperidone     and   Multiplex   Competitive
Immunoassay for Aripiprazole, Olanzapine, Quetiapine, and Risperidone/Paliperidone
[00203]         Following a series of immunizations with paliperidone/risperidone immunogens,
mouse tail bleeds were tested for reactivity using an ELISA. Hybridoma supernatants were
also tested, and the ELISA data shown in Tables 8 and 9 below shows reactivity of several
hybridomas (fusion partner was NSO cells). As shown in Table 9, reactivity of hybridomas 2A5
and 5G1 1 was seen.
[00204]         Table 8
  Dilution   1   2    3    4     5     6     7    8     9    10  11    12
       400                                                             Blank   Ag=Bt
     3600    1    5  14   39    41    47    58   62    67    72  76            Compound#1
      1200
    10800
       400
      1200
     3600    1    5 14    39    41    47    58   62    67    72  76

Table 8 (continued)
Dilution  1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9     10     11     12
    400  3.2562 3.2897 3.3148 3.6038 0.6857 3.3976 1.3444 2.8639 0.5676 3.5993 2.5144 0.0143
   1200  1.3591 1.4605 1.521 2.3063 0.1476 1.9245 0.2841 1.0387 0.1158 2.6921  0.8711 0.0142 Ag=Bt
  3600   0.3745 0.4617 0.3733 0.7613 0.038 0.6163 0.0689 0.2742 0.0304 0.9549  0.2236 0.0115 Cmpd#1
 10800   0.0918 0.1149 0.0908 0.1919 0.0156 0.1834 0.0199 0.0639 0.013  0.2766 0.056  0.0099
    400  3.1217 3.1103 3.1532 3.633  0.6089 3.5705 1.1067 2.4001 0.4963 3.4172 2.2432 0.0095
   1200  1.2607 1.4817 1.3412 2.1411 0.1327 1.9831 0.2691 0.961  0.1027 2.5321 0.7418 0.0098
  3600   0.3281 0.4159 0.3819 0.7373 0.0361 0.593  0.0723 0.292  0.0284 0.8426 0.2024 0.0079
 10800   0.0879 0.1127 0.0929 0.1949 0.0156 0.189  0.0229 0.0722 0.0141 0.2393 0.052  0.0086
                                            52a

[00205]      Table 9
             Plate I
    Dilution     1         2            3
        neat             IGS            E
        neat             2AS            A
        neat            20100
        neat             3B7
        neat             4138         E
        neat            5A1 2
        neat               c
    Dilution     1         2
        neat -0-0072 0-038                 0009
        neat t0077 3.9563                  0163
        neat OOT89 0.0093
        neat 9=76h 0.0753                   00
        neat U-0V4 0.1139                  Q08
        neat O'G        0.0 193MO
        neat Mi)07 0,2503A08
        neat 0.009       0-086                 21IZ
[00206]      After clones were identifed via Ei-ISA reactivity, competition ELISAS
were run to approximate affinity and cross-reactivity with similar compounds. Figs. I
and 2 show the ELISA cross-reactivity results from hybridoma subclone 5_9. Data
shows reactivity to risperidone, as well as its metabolites paliperidone and 7
hydroxyrisperidone.
[00207]      Supernatants were also tested by competition ELISA to determine if the
signals were specific to either risperidone or paliperidone. Fig. 3 shows the results
from hybridoma subclone 2A5. Data shows reactivity to both risperidone and
paliperidone.
[00208]      Fig. 4 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device in which the capture antibody, risperidone/paliperdone clone 5-9, was
deposited on a chip along with a detection conjugate consisting of risperidone
conjugated to a fluorophore. In this competitive format as show in Fig. 4, a low level
of analyte (paliperidone) results in high signal. whereas a high level of analyte
(paliperidone) results in low signal. The amount of paliperidone in the sample can be
calculated from the loss of fluorescence compared to a control sample with no drug
                                           53

present    A typical dose response curve generated with risperidoneipaliperidone
clone 5-9 is shown in Fig. 5.
[00209]       Fig. 6 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
one embodiment of the subject invention. The device includes a zone or area for
receiving the sample, a conjugate zone (which contains desired labeled competitive
binding partner(s)), and a reaction zone (eight areas within the reaction zone are
indicated; each area can contain a separate desired antibody). Sample flows from
the sample zone through the conjugate zone and to the reaction zone,
[00210]       Figs. 7-10 show typical dose response curves for an aripiprazole positive
control (sample containing aripiprazole) generated with antibody 5C7 deposited in
reaction zone 2 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding partner in the
conjugate zone (Fig. 7), an olanzapine positive control (sample containing
olanzapine) generated with antibody 4G9-1 deposited in reaction zone 4 and a
labeled olanzapine competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig, 8), a
quetiapine positive control (sample containing quetiapine) generated with antibody 11
deposited in reaction zone 6 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding partner in
the conjugate zone (Fig. 9), and a risperidone positive control (sample containing
risperidone) generated with antibody 5-9 deposited in reaction zone 8 and a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig. 10). The labeled
competitive binding partners in the conjugate zone compete with the drugs present in
the samples for binding to the antibodies. The amount of label is detected and is an
indication of the amount of drug present in the sample (the amount of signal being
inversely proportional to the amount of drug in the sample - see Fig. 4).
[00211]       In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners do not bind to antibodies deposited in the reaction zones, negative controls
were conducted by using samples containing no drugs.          Referring to Table 10, a
sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by
capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no labeled aripiprazole) and to the
reaction zone.     The reaction zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (507) in
reaction zone 2. Table 10 below shows the results, confirming that there is no dose
response and the olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone conjugates that move by
capillary action through the reaction zone do not bind to the aripiprazole antibody.
                                           54

[00212j           Table 10
        Arip~p'aok-tlan
                   SC7.Mktn ModeI1OngftL                                Mo.
 A.sayMM        -      n          2      P.M.'.o    Are.      HelIght 8     on
            ARP-MIOtmcurfsp       AP        2        a.n       1.5,      3;
   APWI         O   (IUFT , RISPL                    0.08
                                                      a        0.1 1
[00213]           Referring to Table 1, a sample containing no olanzapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. Table 11 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, quetiapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the olanzapine antibody.
[00214]           Table 11
 OLAN-clone 4I~tahModel t(OndImtOncl
                                Reacton,  Read   Pe&k Mean PeakMean     Mean
 As&y-MM           Con]           Zone   PoAmon     Area    .  elht   Bakgrvund
 OIAN.-MM[ ARIPAUgfSP                       2       .0.03      0.05      4.38
 OLAN-MM1   ARIPQUVfiSP           OLAN      4        0.74      1.10      4.56
 OLAN-MMI AIIPQr.RSP                        G        006       0.0       4.79
 OLAN-MM:[ ARP,0TrnSP                       8        0.11      0]3       5.17
[00215]           Referring to Table 12, a sample containing no quetiapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains
quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6. Table 12 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the quetiapine antibody.
                                                         55

[00216]           Table 12
 [ue2Rpi                    Model
                      efrCrone
                            n tMa  Ia
                                  oTb               as/mLCona)
                                Re       action                PeAMen
                                                           zomnkMe.        Mean
rAspdnMM             cnti        Z(59     Poition     Ae.     & Kht aled3bowud
 [WET-MMI ARIPOCLANAPSP                                                   _13
    QUMMI POLNRt,                           16         01'10
  QIr.lJfT    ARII'OLAN~lS Is ctsr                    00I               ~   4~
 ituF-MMI lAkIP,O.AN RI1P L0          -.                           00         5
con2rn           tRefer ring to Table 13, a sample containing no risperione is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole. labeled olanzapine, and labeled quetiapine. but no
labeled rispedidone) and to the reacion zone. The reaction zone again contains
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 13 below shows the results,
Confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
quetiapn conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the risperidone antibody.
[00218]           Table 13
                               Rea~toe    Rend    Pe~k Mea    Peak Mean   Meai
  AssayMM    I      Cool         Zone    Posmon.                Kel
                                                                Hrea    t    .n
                                             2   1   on
             JAIP.OLN, QU2'M
      ISP-MMIW
[00219]            In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners bind only to their respective antibodies deposited in the reaction zones,
additional negative controls were conducted by again using samples containing no
drugs. Referring to Table 14, a sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the
sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 14 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the aripiprazole antibody 5C7 (in
reaction zone 2).
                                                         56

[00220]         Table 14
 Anpipgroie Cloe .C /Math Mdel 1.       mConcJ
                                       ,Ng
                                                        Peat,     Peak
 [00221]        Referring to Tabe 15, a sample connig no olariapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6. and
 OAN-PMM1 ARIPOLANQUDrRSP'        LA          4         ZS423S 5.8             3
risperidlone
 otAN-rMM ,itA Oantibody    (5-9) in reaction
                   NQU TRNf5P                  6    zone
                                                     (    1.28. I Table
                                                                    .3   n 15 53below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the olanzapine antibody 4G9-1
(in reaction zone 4),
[00222]         Table 15
                                                         eak      Peak
                               Reacion                  Mean      Mai       Mearn
 AZa-MM           Conj          Zone    ReadPosition    Area      Height  Eackgrd
  AN-MM ARIPMAN QUJET     RSP                  2        0.02        O
 OLAN-MM ARIP,OLAN,QUERSP h   JI M                       0.15      0,17       5.9
[002231         Referring to Table 16, a sample containing no quetiapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 16 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the quetiapine antibody 11 (in
reaction zone 6).
                                                       57

[00224]           Table 16
 QtuetoplneCoa'e l-Mtl         oe      ~gnLo
                                                                  Panic      peal'
                                       Reaction                  Mean        Mean       Mean
 AssayMM             toon                        Read Poidori     Area       Height   8ackgreid
 IQUCr-MM1A                                            2otA       0.13. rOA1             1.2      i
           cul--MM1
             lairoi-       -                    1                 oma         0'7.  i    104
 OUET-MMI ;ARP,Olt        Ur -6      -       -         6         140.35      11L31        71.-    i
[00225]           Referring to Table 17, a sample containing no risperidone is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 17 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the risperidone antibody 5-9 (in
reaction zone 8).
[002261           Table 17
 Jdispeidone~Ione 3-9Math Model I liig/m- Conc.)
                                                                  Peak       Peak
                                       Reaction                  Mean        Mean       Mear
 Assayi-MM           Celli               Zoe     Rad P.-ic--      Area       Height   Background
I Rea -MM1ARIP-
              .    IAN,      --RISP-                          - 1--103        L51         9.07
       ZARWCONUEM
        M~PKI
  RISr-MM1 AR,OIAN,Qu1RSP
                                 S
                                                       6            .61 [;a;
                                                                               .9         9.W~
                                                                                          0.   id
[00227]           The results shown above confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive
binding partners bind only to their respective antibodies in the reaction zone.
[00228]           Figs. 11-14 show typical dose response curves in specific antibody
reaction zones, and proof of dose response low/high concentration for each specific
assay in the presence of other conjugates. In Fig. 11, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (SC7) in reaction zone 2. A typical dose
response curve was generated as is shown in Fig. 11 only for aripiprazole, and not
for olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone.
[00229]           In Fig, 12, a sample containing olanzapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
                                                               58

labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains olanzapine antibody
(4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. A typical dose response curve was generated as is
shown in Fig. 12 only for olanzapine, and not for aripiprazole, quetiapine, or
risperidone.
[002301      In Fig. 13, a sample containing quetiapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains quetiapine antibody (11)
in reaction zone 6- A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in Fig.
13 only for quetiapine, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine, or risperidone.
(00231]      In Fig. 14, a sample containing risperidone is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains risperidone antibody (5
9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in
Fig. 14 only for risperidone, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine. or quetiapine,
(00232]      Figs. 15-18 show typical dose response curves for each assay in the
presence of other conjugates and antibodies.           In Fig. 15, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (again containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction
zone 6, and risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response
curve was generated for aripiprazole, as is shown in Fig. 15.           When a sample
containing olanzapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve was generated for olanzapine as shown in Fig- 16. When a sample
containing quetiapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for quetiapine was generated as shown in Fig. 17. When a sample
containing risperidone was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for risperidone was generated as shown in Fig. 18.
[00233]      rigs. 1.9-22 show comparisons of dose response curves generated as
positive controls (Figs. 7-10) to dose response curves generated in the multiplex
                                            59

format (Figs. 15-18).    The comparison for aripiprazole is shown in Fig. 19; for
olanzapine in Fig. 20; for quetiapine in Fig. 21; and for risperidone in Fig. 22. These
figures show that the positive control curves are similar to the multiplex curves.
[00234]     These data show that a lateral flow assay device of the subject invention
can be used to detect multiple anti-psychotic drugs using a single sample from a
patient on one portable, point-of-care device.
                                           60

CLAIMS
1. A compound of Formula I
                          N-0
         O                         R2
                     N
    R
Formula I
wherein:
R' is H, or OH;
                                                         0  0
                                                       N 9 IO
                                  Co               0 _
R2 isO(CH2)rlH 2,          H           ,        H
O(CH 2)NHC(0)XCH 2).CO2H;
r is 1, 2,3,4, or 5;
m is 1, 2 3, 4, cr5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or S.
2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is
                          N-o
         N
                       00
                                   O
     H
r is 1,2, 3, 4, or 5; and
mo is 2, 3, 4, or 5.
3. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is

    OH
r is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5; and
m is 2, 3, 4, or 5.
                                         H     mn
                       N:-
                        4
4. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is
                                                      O   0
                                           0O       N       OH
         O             N          OkN          N
        eN
   OH
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
m is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
5. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is
                                                      0 O
                           NN0
        N                                H
    H
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.

6. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is
                            N-O
                     N              O4 1         mkOH
                                                 YN
                  N                        H
     q-N
   OH
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
m is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5.
7.       The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is
                              N- 0
                                                o   0
                         NN              a 1k    WN O H
          NH
             N
       H
r is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
m is 1, 2, 3,4, or 5.
8. A conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 - 7 and an immunogenic carrier.
9. The conjugate of claim 8, wherein the compound is
                                      OHNA
                       N
     H
                             NN
           N
    OH

                                                          O    0
                         N- 0
                          1                   0       'N         0H
        O                N'       ok          O    N
                 N                         H      m
    q-N
  OH
                         N-0O                 0     rN'      MOH
                  N     NN
    P-N
   H
                            0
                         N-
                                              0    0
                 N                   O    NOH
   qN
  OH                                                      or
                            N~O
                                                 0     0
                0                            1       u
                      N                OkNO
         N                                     H
           N
      H
10. The conjugate of claim 8 or claim 9, where the immunogenic carrier is a protein.
11. The conjugate of claim 10, where the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, ovalbumin or
bovine thyroglobulin.
12. A process of producing the conjugate of claim 8 or claim 9, comprising contacting the
compound with an immunogenic carrier.
13. The process of claim 12, wherein the compound is

                  Wa        0
      0
                          0L
          N          OrNNH       M
 H
              N-N
                                     a       O
       N
OH
          N          OktNm
                                         0   0
                          0            NI      OH
             N'O
OHN
OH
         N              H
                                         0  0
                          0       r'N>{4$OH
         N0                   N     OH
            N        aH     ,
     N
H
                          0     0
     0                  NA0 -N OH
 q-N
OH                                      or

                               W0
                                                   0    0
            0          N
                       NN                       N         O
            N
       H
 14. The process of any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the immunogenic carter is a protein.
 I.   The process of claim 14, wherein the protein is keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine
thyroglobulin, or ovalbunin.
 16.    An isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to risperidone and
whichas generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of any one of claims I to 7 and
an immunogenic carrier
 17.    The antibody or binding fragment hereof of claim 16, wherein the antibody binding
fragment is selected from the group of fragments consisting of Fv, Flab'), F(ab')2, scFv,
minibody and diabody fragments.
 I.     The antibody or binding fragment thereof of claim 16, wherein the antibody is a
monoclonal anybody.
 19.    An assay kit comprising lie antibody or binding fragment thereof of any one of claims
 16 to 18.
20.     An assay device comprising the antibody or binding fragment thereof of any one of
claims 16 to I.
21.     The assay device of claim 20, wherein the device is a lateral flow assay device.
22.     A method of producing an antibody or a binding fragment thereof which binds to
risperidone, the method comprising:
  i      selecting a hostfor antibody production; and
(ii)     inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of any one of claims I to 7 and an
immunogenic carder, wherein the host produces an antibody or a binding fragment thereof
which binds to risperidone.

23.     A method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable of producing a monoclonal
antibody which binds to risperidone, the method comprising:
(i)     selecting a host for antibody production;
(ii)    inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 7 and an
immunogenic carrier;
(iii)   fusing a cell line from said inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a
fused cell capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to risperidone; and
(iv)    cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.
24.     The method of claim 22, wherein the binding fragment is selected from the group of
fragments consisting of Fv, F(ab'), F(ab')2, scFv, minibody and diabody fragments.
25.     The method of claim 22, wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
26.     The method of claim 23, wherein the hybridoma cell line produces a monoclonal
antibody.
27.     A method of detecting risperidone in a sample, the method comprising:
(i)     contacting a sample with the antibody or binding fragment thereof of any one of claims
1 to 7 labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the labeled antibody or binding fragment
thereof and risperidone present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii)    detecting the labeled complex so as to detect risperidone in the sample.
28.     A competitive immunoassay method for detecting risperidone in a sample, the method
comprising:
(i)     contacting a sample with the antibody or binding fragment thereof of any one of claims
1 to 7, and with risperidone or a competitive binding partner of risperidone, wherein one of the
antibody or binding fragment thereof and the risperidone or competitive binding partner thereof
is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein sample risperidone competes with the
risperidone or competitive binding partner thereof for binding to the antibody or binding
fragment thereof; and
(ii)    detecting the label so as to detect sample risperidone.
29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the risperidone or competitive binding partner thereof
is labeled with the detectable marker.
30.     The method of claim 28, wherein the antibody or binding fragment thereof is labeled
with a detectable marker.

31.       The method of claim 28, wherein the immunoassay is performed on a lateral flow assay
device and the sample is applied to the device.
32.       The method of claim 27 or claim 28, further comprising detecting the presence of one
or more analytes in addition to risperidone.
33.       The method of claim 32, wherein the one or more analytes are anti-psychotic drugs
other than risperidone.
34.       The method of claim 33, wherein the anti-psychotic drugs other than risperidone are
selected from the group consisting of: paliperidone, quetiapine, olanzapine, aripiprazole, and
metabolites thereof.
35.       The method of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein
(i) the detection of risperidone is an indication of patient adherence with prescribed risperidone
therapy;
(ii) the detection of risperidone is used to determine whether a patient should be converted
from an oral risperidone regimen to an injectable anti-psychotic regimen;
(iii) the detection of risperidone is used to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral
or injectable risperidone should be increased or decreased to ensure attainment or
maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels;
(iv) the detection of risperidone is an aid in the initiation of risperidone therapy by providing
evidence of the attainment of minimum pK levels;
(v) the detection of risperidone is used to determine bioequivalence of risperidone in multiple
formulations or from multiple sources;
(vi) the detection of risperidone is used to assess the impact of polypharmacy and potential
drug-drug interactions; or
(vii) the detection of risperidone is an indication that a patient should be excluded from or
included into a clinical trial and is an aid in the subsequent monitoring of adherence to clinical
trial medication requirements.
36.       An antibody when produced according to the method of claim 22.
37.       A hybridoma cell line when produced according to the method of claim 23.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
