ABSTRACT
Provided herein are soft tissue implants, method making, use and administration
thereof. The soft tissue implant comprises a hydrophilic bioactive intracellular
component of donor adipose tissue wherein the hydrophilic bioactive intracellular
components comprise a growth factor; and components of donor fascia tissue, donor
dermis tissue, or donor fascia tissue and donor dermis tissue; wherein the soft tissue
implant does not contain hydrophobic components from the adipose tissue.

    WO 2015/002937                                                             PCT/US2014/045032
                                       SOFT TISSUE IMPLANT
                          CROSS-REFERNCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application serial
   number 61/841,601 filed on July 1, 2013, having the title "Soft Tissue Implant," the
 5 disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
           Changes in soft tissues occur as a result of the natural aging process as well as
   traumatic events, such as surgery, disease, or other conditions. Changes in these soft
   tissues can create undesirable soft tissue defects. For example, as aging occurs, loss of
10 adipose and other soft tissues in the face results in wrinkles. Additionally, inflammation and
   fibrous tissue formation can occur after the addition of any type of implant in response to a
   foreign body being present.
           In such instances, soft tissue implants are desirable to address some of the
   deleterious consequences of soft tissue changes. Current methods of obtaining soft tissue
15 for the basis of a soft tissue implant rely on methods that remove several important cellular
   components, including key proteins, from the soft tissue implant after harvest. As such, there
   exists a need for improved soft tissue implants as well as methods of making soft tissue
   implants.
                                              SUMMARY
20         In one aspect, the soft tissue implant described herein contains a bioactive
   intracellular component of an adipose cell and a carrier substrate, where the soft tissue
   implant is prepared by harvesting an adipose cell from a donor, selectively lysing the
   adipose cell to obtain a bioactive intracellular component, and combining the bioactive
   intracellular component with a carrier substrate. In some embodiments, the bioactive
25 intracellular component is a growth factor. In further embodiments, the donor is an
   autologous donor, allogeneic donor, xenogeneic donor, or a syngeneic donor. In additional
   embodiments, the step of selectively lysing includes lysing the adipose cell by chemical
   disruption or mechanical disruption. In some embodiments, the chemical disruption involves
   contacting the adipose cell with a solution, wherein the solution contains an acid or a base.
30 In further embodiments, the step of selectively lysing includes selective separation of the
   bioactive    intracellular component from      other adipose    cell components.     In some
   embodiments, the carrier substrate is a complete extracellular matrix, a decellularized
   extracellular matrix, extracellular matrix components, a hydrogel, a polymer solid, a polymer
                                                   1

    WO 2015/002937                                                                   PCT/US2014/045032
   semi-solid, a carbohydrate, self-assembling peptides, carbon nanotubes, chitosan, alginate,
   hyaluronic acid, bone powder, cartilage powder, a protein, a sugars, a plastic, a metal, or
   combinations thereof. In an embodiment, the bioactive intracellular content is contained in a
   slurry, wherein a ratio of slurry to carrier substrate is about 1:1 (v/v) to about 1:100 (v/v).
 5          In another aspect, a method involves harvesting an adipose cell from a donor,
   selectively lysing the adipose cell to obtain a bioactive intracellular component, and
   combining the bioactive intracellular component with a carrier substrate to form a combined
   bioactive intracellular component-carrier substrate. . In some embodiments, the bioactive
   intracellular component is a growth factor. In further embodiments, the donor is an
10 autologous donor, allogeneic donor, xenogeneic donor, or a syngeneic donor. In additional
   embodiments, the step of selectively lysing includes lysing the adipose cell by chemical
   disruption or mechanical disruption. In some embodiments, the chemical disruption involves
   contacting the adipose cell with a solution, wherein the solution contains an acid or a base.
   In further embodiments, the step of selectively lysing includes selective separation of the
15 bioactive    intracellular component      from    other   adipose    cell  components.     In   some
   embodiments, the carrier substrate is a complete extracellular matrix, a decellularized
   extracellular matrix, extracellular matrix components, a hydrogel, a polymer solid, a polymer
   semi-solid, a carbohydrate, self-assembling peptides, carbon nanotubes, chitosan, alginate,
   hyaluronic acid, bone powder, cartilage powder, a protein, a sugars, a plastic, a metal, or
20 combinations thereof. In an embodiment, the bioactive intracellular content is contained in a
   slurry, w herein a ratio of slurry to carrier substrate is about 1:1(v/v) to about 1:100 (v/v). In
   other embodiments, the method also includes adding preservatives, antibiotics, antivirals,
   antifungals, pH stabilizers, osmostablizers,          anti-inflammants,    anti-neoplastics, growth
   factors,    angiogenic      compounds,       vasculogenic       compounds,       chemotherapeutics,
25 immunomodulators,        chemoattractants,     or   combinations    thereof    to   the  intracellular
   component, the carrier substrate or the combined bioactive intracellular component-carrier
   substrate. In still further embodiments, the method includes administering the combined
   bioactive intracellular component-carrier substrate to a subject in need thereof.
            In another aspect, a kit contains a soft tissue implant that includes a bioactive
30 intracellular component of an adipose cell and a carrier substrate, where the soft tissue
   implant is generated by harvesting an adipose cell from a donor, selectively lysing the
   adipose cell to obtain a bioactive intracellular component, and combining the bioactive
   intracellular component with a carrier substrate, and instructions contained in a tangible
   medium of expression, wherein the instructions provide directions for administering the soft
35 tissue implant into a subject in need thereof. In other embodiments, the kit contains a
   delivery device having a hollow container and a plunger, wherein the plunger is mechanically
                                                      2

    WO 2015/002937                                                                 PCT/US2014/045032
   coupled to the hollow container, and wherein the delivery device is configured to contain the
   soft tissue implant within the hollow container.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5          Further aspects of the present disclosure will be readily appreciated upon review of
   the detailed description of its various embodiments, described below, when taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
            Figure 1 is a flow diagram illustrating embodiments of a method for harvesting soft
   tissue cells and retaining endogenous intracellular components.
10          Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating embodiments of a method of incorporating the
   stored or un-stored slurry of Figure 1 into a carrier substrate.
            Figure 3 is a flow diagram illustrating embodiments of a method of incorporating the
   stored or un-stored slurry of Figure 1 into a soft tissue graft.
            Figure 4 shows one embodiment of a delivery device containing a slurry as produced
15 according to the methods described herein.
            Figure 5 shows another embodiment of a delivery device containing a slurry as
   produced according to the methods described herein.
            Figure 6 demonstrates increased growth factor content in a carrier substrate
   combined with adipose-derived intracellular compounds (LipoAmp) as compared to control.
20          Figure 7 shows in vivo implantation volume of a carrier substrate combined with
   adipose-derived intracellular compounds (LipoAmp) over time as compared to donor
   matched control implants.
            Figures 8a and 8b show control staining (Figure 8a) and hematoxylin and eosin
   staining demonstrating ectopic adipogensis at the site of implantation of a carrier substrate
25 containing adipose-derived intracellular compounds (LipoAmp).
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Before the present disclosure is described in greater detail, it is to be understood that
   this disclosure is not limited to particular embodiments described, and as such may, of
   course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose
30 of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
                                                    3

    WO 2015/002937                                                                 PCT/US2014/045032
             Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to
   the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between
   the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that
   stated range, is encompassed within the disclosure. The upper and lower limits of these
 5 smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also
   encompassed within the disclosure, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated
   range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or
   both of those included limits are also included in the disclosure.
             Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
10 same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   disclosure belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present disclosure, the
   preferred methods and materials are now described.
             All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by
15 reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually
   indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to
   disclose and describe the methods            and/or materials in connection with which the
   publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing
   date and should not be construed as an admission that the present disclosure is not entitled
20 to antedate such publication by virtue of prior disclosure. Further, the dates of publication
   provided could be different from the actual publication dates that may need to be
   independently confirmed.
             As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, each of the
   individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and
25 features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
   other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
   disclosure. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any
   other order that is logically possible.
             Embodiments of the present disclosure will employ, unless otherwise indicated,
30 techniques of molecular biology, physiology, modern surgical techniques, microbiology,
   nanotechnology, organic chemistry, biochemistry, botany and the like, which are within the
   skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature.
             Definitions
35
             In describing the disclosed subject matter, the following terminology will be used in
   accordance with the definitions set forth below.
                                                       4

    WO 2015/002937                                                                 PCT/US2014/045032
           As used herein, "about," "approximately," and the like, when used in connection with
   a numerical variable, generally refers to the value of the variable and to all values of the
   variable that are within the experimental error (e.g., within the 95% confidence interval for
 5 the mean) or within .+-. 10% of the indicated value, whichever is greater.
           As used herein, ""effective amount" is an amount sufficient to effect beneficial or
   desired results. An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations,
   applications, or dosages.
           As used herein, "therapeutic" refers to treating or curing a disease or condition.
10         As used herein, "preventative" refers to hindering or stopping a disease or condition
   before it occurs or while the disease or condition is still in the sub-clinical phase.
           As used herein, "concentrated" used in reference to an amount of a molecule,
   compound, or composition, including, but not limited to, a chemical compound,
   polynucleotide, peptide, polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof, that indicates
15 that the sample is distinguishable from its naturally occurring counterpart in that the
   concentration or number of molecules per volume is greater than that of its naturally
   occurring counterpart.
           As used herein, "isolated" means separated from constituents, cellular and otherwise,
   with which the polynucleotide, peptide, polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof,
20 are normally associated in nature. A non-naturally occurring polynucleotide, peptide,
   polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof, does not require "isolation" to
   distinguish it from its naturally occurring counterpart.
           As used herein, "diluted" used in reference to an amount of a molecule, compound,
   or composition including but not limited to, a chemical compound, polynucleotide, peptide,
25 polypeptide, protein, antibody, or fragments thereof, that indicates that the sample is
   distinguishable from its naturally occurring counterpart in that the concentration or number of
   molecules per volume is less than that of its naturally occurring counterpart.
           As used interchangeably herein, "subject," "individual," or "patient," refers to a
   vertebrate, preferably a mammal, more preferably a human. Mammals include, but are not
30 limited to, murines, simians, humans, farm animals, sport animals, and pets. The term "pet"
   includes a dog, cat, guinea pig, mouse, rat, rabbit, ferret, and the like. The term farm animal
   includes a horse, sheep, goat, chicken, pig, cow, donkey, llama, alpaca, turkey, and the like.
           As used herein, "biocompatible" or "biocompatibility" refers to the ability of a material
   to be used by a patient without eliciting an adverse or otherwise inappropriate host response
35 in the patient to the material or a derivative thereof, such as a metabolite, as compared to
   the host response in a normal or control patient.
                                                    5

    WO 2015/002937                                                                PCT/US2014/045032
            As used herein, "cell," "cell line," and "cell culture" include progeny. It is also
   understood that all progeny may not be precisely identical in DNA content, due to deliberate
   or inadvertent mutations. Variant progeny that have the same function or biological property,
   as screened for in the originally transformed cell, are included.
 5          As used herein, "specific binding" refers to binding which occurs between such paired
   species as enzyme/substrate, receptor/agonist, antibody/antigen, and lectin/carbohydrate
   which may be mediated by covalent or non-covalent interactions or a combination of
   covalent and non-covalent interactions. When the interaction of the two species produces a
   non- covalently bound complex, the binding which occurs is typically electrostatic, hydrogen
10 bonding, or the result of lipophilic interactions. Accordingly, "specific binding" occurs
   between a paired species where there is interaction between the two which produces a
   bound complex having the characteristics of an antibody/antigen or enzyme/substrate
   interaction. In particular, the specific binding is characterized by the binding of one member
   of a pair to a particular species and to no other species within the family of compounds to
15 which the corresponding member of the binding member belongs. Thus, for example, an
   antibody preferably binds to a single epitope and to no other epitope within the family of
   proteins.
            As used herein, "control" is an alternative subject or sample used in an experiment
   for comparison purposes and included to minimize or distinguish the effect of variables other
20 than an independent variable.
            As used herein, "positive control" refers to a "control" that is designed to produce the
   desired result, provided that all reagents are functioning properly and that the experiment is
   properly conducted.
            As used herein, "negative control" refers to a "control" that is designed to produce no
25 effect or result, provided that all reagents are functioning properly and that the experiment is
   properly conducted. Other terms that are interchangeable with "negative control" include
   "sham," "placebo," and "mock."
            As used herein, "culturing" refers to maintaining cells under conditions in which they
   can proliferate and avoid senescence as a group of cells. "Culturing" can also include
30 conditions in which the cells also or alternatively differentiate.
            As used herein, "synergistic effect," "synergism," or "synergy" refers to an effect
   arising between two or more molecules, compounds, substances, factors, or compositions
   that is greater than or different from the sum of their individual effects.
            As used herein, "additive effect" refers to an effect arising between two or more
35 molecules, compounds, substances, factors, or compositions that is equal to or the same as
   the sum of their individual effects.
                                                    6

    WO 2015/002937                                                                PCT/US2014/045032
            As used herein, "autologous" refers to being derived from the same subject that is the
   recipient.
            As used herein, "allograft" refers to a graft that is derived from one member of a
   species and grafted in a genetically dissimilar member of the same species.
 5          As used herein "xenograft" or "xenogeneic" refers to a substance or graft that is
   derived from one member of a species and grafted or used in a member of a different
   species.
            As used herein, "autograft" refers to a graft that is derived from a subject and grafted
   into the same subject from which the graft was derived.
10          As used herein, "allogeneic" refers to involving, derived from, or being individuals of
   the same species that are sufficiently genetically different so as to interact with one another
   antigenicaly.
            As used herein, "syngeneic" refers to subjects or donors that are genetically similar
   enough so as to be immunologically compatible to allow for transplantation, grafting, or
15 implantation.
            As used herein, "implant" or "graft," as used interchangeably herein, refers to cells,
   tissues, or other compounds, including metals and plastics, that are inserted into the body of
   a subject.
            As used herein, "filler" refers to a substance used to fill a cavity or depression. The
20 filler can fill the depression such that it is level with the surrounding area or that the cavity is
   filled, such that the depth of the depression or volume of the cavity is decreased, or such
   that the area that was the depression is now raised relative to the areas immediately
   surrounding the depression.
            As use herein, "immunogenic" or "immunogenicity" refers to the ability of a
25 substance, compound, molecule, and the like (referred to as an "antigen") to provoke an
   immune response in a subject.
            As used herein, "exogenous" refers to a compound, substance, or molecule coming
   from outside a subject or donor, including their cells and tissues.
            As used herein, "endogenous" refers to a compound, substance, or molecule
30 originating from within a subject or donor, including their cells or tissues.
            As used herein, "bioactive" refers to a material, compound, or other molecule that
   interacts with or causes an effect on any cell or tissue or other biological pathway in a
   subject.
            As used herein, "physiological solution" refers to a solution that is about isotonic with
35 tissue fluids, blood, or cells.
            As used herein, "donor" refers to a subject from which cells or tissues are derived.
                                                      7

   WO 2015/002937                                                              PCT/US2014/045032
           As used herein, "slurry" refers to the resultant product from any of the methods
   described herein. Accordingly, the slurry can be in any form resulting from the processing
   described herein, including but not limited to, dehydrated slurry or tissue, paste, powder,
   solution, gel, putty, particulate and the like.
 5         As used herein, "extra cellular matrix" refers to the non-cellular component
   surrounding cells that provides support functions to the cell including structural, biochemical,
   and biophysical support, including but not limited to, providing nutrients, scaffolding for
   structural support, and sending or responding to biological cues for cellular processes such
   as growth, differentiation, and homeostasis.
10         As used herein, "complete extracellular matrix" refers to extracellular matrix that has
   all components (proteins, peptides, proteoglycans, and the like) present and may or may not
   include other cells that are embedded in the extra cellular matrix.
           As used herein, "decellularized extracellular matrix" refers to complete extracellular
   matrix that has been processed to remove any cells embedded within the extracellular
15 matrix.
           As used herein, "extracellular matrix component" refers to a particular component. By
   way of a non-limiting example, an extracellular matrix comportment can be a specific class of
   comments (e.g. proteoglycans) or individual component (e.g. collagen I) that is separated or
   isolated from the other extracellular components. These components can be made
20 synthetically.
           As used herein "hydrogel" refers to a network of hydrophilic polymer chains that are
   dispersed in water. "Hydrogel" also includes a network of hydrophilic polymer chains
   dispersed in water that are found as a colloidal gel.
           As used herein "self-assembling peptides" refer to peptides which undergo
25 spontaneous assembly into ordered nanostructures. "Self-assembling peptides" include di
   peptides, lego peptides, surfactant peptides, molecular paint or carpet peptides, and cyclic
   peptides.
           Discussion
30
           While soft tissue implants and grafts have many applications, current methods used
   to harvest and prepare the soft tissues for implantation are relatively crude and harsh and,
   importantly, result in the loss of key proteins and other molecules. In a typical allograft
   harvesting and processing procedure, a donor is prepped according to standard surgical
35 procedures and the various tissues desired are recovered by surgical staff. Recovered
   tissues, which are the tissue grafts, are typically cultured prior to further processing to
                                                   8

   WO 2015/002937                                                               PCT/US2014/045032
   determine the level of bacterial contamination. Some tissues can be maintained in culture to
   retain the tissue's viability.
            If, after culture, the soft tissue implant/graft is positive for a virulent organism,
   including but not limited to, Clostridia species, enterococci, or fungi, the tissue graft is
 5 discarded. However, this culture method is not completely reliable in determining bacterial
   contamination. Other tests on the donor, such as blood tests for HIV, hepatitis B and C, and
   syphilis are performed to determine the safety of the harvested allograft(s). Even these
   methods are not completely reliable.
           As such, the allografts are typically further sterilized to reduce the microorganism
10 contamination to less than about 103 microorganisms. Typical sterilization methods include,
   but are not limited to, combinations of washing with or without pressurization, centrifugation
   with various chemicals such as alcohols and/or detergents, and combining antibiotics with
   low-dose radiation. While these processing methods reduce the amount of microorganism
   contamination, they also can damage the tissue graft and result in the loss of many
15 intracellular proteins and molecules.
            On the one hand, the removal of intracellular proteins and molecules is good insofar
   as it reduces the immunogenicity of the allograft. Immogenicity is reduced because
   immunogenic extracellular components (e.g. proteins, lipoproteins, and other immunogenic
   molecules that reside in/on the cell membrane) are washed away during the stringent
20 washing steps, which typically include lysing of the cells. However, the washing and lysing
   also results in the loss of the intracellular components of the cell (e.g. proteins, DNA, RNA,
   peptides, and other molecules that are contained within the cell). The loss of some of these
   endogenous intracellular components, such as growth factor proteins, can adversely affect
   the performance of the allograft and its incorporation into the surrounding tissue. Allografting
25 of intact cells or tissue grafts that are not acelluar is not successful due to the
   immunogenicity of the intact cells and cellularized tissues. These allografts are rarely
   successful and typically require that the recipient take immunosuppressants to maintain the
   allograft.
            With these problems and limitations of current methods for preparing soft tissue
30 implants and grafts in mind, the present disclosure provides methods of preparing soft tissue
   implants where the immunogenic portion of the cells are removed and at least a portion of
   the intracellular components are retained and processed into a soft tissue implant. The
   methods described herein are particularly suited for processing harvested adipose tissue
   and cells, as well as in vitro cultured adipose tissue and cells. Specifically, the methods
35 described herein allow for collection of endogenous intracellular components of adipose cells
   and incorporate these components into soft tissue implants, grafts, and fillers for many
   reconstructive and surgical repair techniques.
                                                   9

    WO 2015/002937                                                               PCT/US2014/045032
           In an embodiment, a soft tissue implant contains a bioactive intracellular component
   of an adipose cell and a carrier substrate, where the soft tissue implant is prepared by
   harvesting an adipose cell from a donor, selectively lysing the adipose sell to obtain the
   bioactive intracellular components and combining the bioactive intracellular component with
 5 a carrier substrate. In some embodiments, the soft tissue implant can be directly
   administered to a subject in need thereof.
           In other embodiments, the soft tissue implant is a first soft tissue implant that is
   applied to a second soft tissue implant. The first soft tissue implant can be applied to a
   second soft tissue implant while the second soft tissue implant is outside the recipient of the
10 second soft tissue implant (ex vivo). In other embodiments, the first soft tissue implant can
   be applied to the second soft tissue implant after the second soft tissue implant is already
   implanted in the recipient (in situ).
           Accordingly, also provided are soft tissue implants, grafts, and fillers produced by the
   methods described herein. Also provided are devices for containing and/or delivering the soft
15 tissue implants, grafts, and fillers produced by the methods described herein and kits
   containing the soft tissue implants, grafts, fillers and/or devices described herein. The
   methods, soft tissue implants, grafts, fillers, devices, and kits described herein offer several
   advantages to current soft tissue grafts at least insofar as they incorporate endogenous
   intracellular components, while minimizing the immunogenicity of the soft tissue implant.
20         Other compositions, compounds, methods, devices, systems, features, and
   advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one having ordinary skill
   in the art upon examination of the following drawings, detailed description, and examples. It
   is intended that all such additional compositions, compounds, methods, features, and
   advantages be included within this description, and be within the scope of the present
25 disclosure.
           Discussion of the disclosed embodiments begins with Figure 1, which is a flow
   diagram illustrating an embodiment of a method for harvesting soft tissue cells, particularly
   adipose cells, and collecting one or more of the endogenous intracellular components. In
   short, the method involves harvesting an adipose cell from a donor, selectively lysing the
30 adipose cell to obtain a bioactive intracellular component and combining the bioactive
   intracellular component with a carrier substrate to form a combined bioactive intracellular
   component-carrier substrate. In some embodiments, the combined bioactive intracellular
   component-carrier substrate is administered to a subject in need thereof. The methods
   described herein produce a soft tissue implant containing a bioactive intracellular component
35 of an adipose cell.
           The method begins in an embodiment by harvesting cells from soft tissues from a
   donor or from an in vitro cell or tissue culture by a suitable method 100. Suitable harvesting
                                                    10

    WO 2015/002937                                                                 PCT/US2014/045032
   methods are generally known in the art and include, but are not limited to, aspiration,
   scraping, dissection, and other surgical techniques known in the art. In one embodiment,
   tissue is excised in a desired shape and amount as determined by a medical practitioner.
   Factors that determine the shape and amount of the tissue to be excised include the
 5 physiological condition of the donor tissue and size of graft needed. In some embodiments,
   the tissue or cells are harvested at ambient temperature. In other embodiments, the tissue or
   cells are harvested at a temperature less than ambient temperature. In further embodiments,
   the tissues or cells are harvested at temperatures as low as about -21 OC.
           In embodiments, tissue can be minced, cut, ground, and/or chopped into particulates.
10 In some of these embodiments, the particulates are about 1.5 times longer in one plane than
   another plane. In some embodiments, the elongated shape of these particulates may
   improve incorporation of the implant into surrounding tissue, remodeling of surrounding
   tissue, and tissue growth upon implantation. This may be due to an increase in surface area
   of the elongated implant particulates, which may facilitate vascularization.
15         Cutting, mincing, and grinding can further aid in separating the tissue into different
   constituents to further ease separation from the tissue, which allows for separation of the
   constituents based on density. In some embodiments, to obtain a specific constituent of
   tissue (e.g. adipose or collagen), the harvested tissue is cut, minced, ground, or otherwise
   mechanically manipulated and the constituents are separated out based on their density. In
20 some embodiments, adipose tissue or cells are obtained from within another tissue (e.g.
   muscle) by this process. The profile of intracellular contents of cells can vary based on the
   environment in which the cell resides. Therefore, in some embodiments, the adipose cells
   are derived from intertissue (within or interspersed within another tissue) adipose tissue, as
   opposed to interstitial adipose tissue that is not interspersed within another tissue in order to
25 obtain a particular intracellular content profile in the final implant product.
           Soft tissues include, any tissue or organ that is not bone, including, but not limited to
   adipose tissue, muscle, cartilage, tendons, and ligaments. In one embodiment, the
   harvested cells are adipose cells. The soft tissues can be autologous, allogeneic,
   xenogeneic, or syngeneic in origin. In order to minimize immunogenicity, the use of
30 autologous cells is most advantageous. In other words, it is preferred if the harvested cells
   were obtained directly or indirectly (i.e. from an in vitro culture containing cells from the
   subject to receive the implant) from the subject that is to receive the soft tissue implant. In an
   embodiment, autologous adipose cells are harvested. In other embodiments, the tissue or
   cells are allogeneic.
35         As previously mentioned, in some embodiments, the harvested soft tissue cells are
   cultured in vitro for an amount of time using suitable cell culture methods generally known in
   the art. One having ordinary skill will appreciate that the culture conditions will vary
                                                     11

   WO 2015/002937                                                                 PCT/US2014/045032
   depending on the cell type. In some embodiments, cells from adipose tissue are cultured in
   vitro for about 1 day to about 6 months. In some embodiments, the cultured cells are
   harvested 100 as previously described. In an embodiment, adipose cells are harvested from
   a donor and cultured in vitro, until harvested 100 as previously described.
 5          In some embodiments, the harvested cells are suspended in a physiological solution.
   Suitable physiological solutions include, but are not limited to, saline (about 0.9% w/v),
   phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solution, Tris-buffered saline, and HEPES (2-[4-(2
   hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethanesulfonic acid)-buffered saline. In some embodiments, the
                                                                                                     2
   concentration of harvested cells in the physiological solution ranges from about 1X10
10 cells/mL to about 1 x 1010 cells/mL.
            Next, in some embodiments, the harvested cells are lysed 101a to release the
   endogenous intracellular components. After cell lysis, a cell lysate is generated, which
   contains the lysed cell membrane, intracellular contents, the physiological solution (if
   present), and the solution used to lyse the cells. The intracellular components include, but
15 are not limited to, proteins (including enzymatic proteins and non-enzymatic proteins),
   protein complexes, nucleic acids, lipids, fatty acids, amino acids, peptides, simple sugars,
   carbohydrates, minerals, vitamins, ions (e.g. potassium, sodium, chloride, bicarbonate,
   magnesium, and calcium), hormones, and growth factors (which can be proteins or other
   types of molecules or macromolecules themselves). Examples of intracellular components
20 include, but are not limited to aFGF, bFGF, VEGF, TGFB1, ANG, IGF, and the like. Lysing
   can occur by mechanical, chemical, and/or biological processes. Mechanical process
   include, but are not limited to, thermolysis, microfluidics, ultrasonics, electric shock, blending,
   milling, beadbeating, homogenization, french press, impingement, applying excessive shear,
   pressure, or vacuum forces, or combinations thereof.
25          For some embodiments, thermolysis includes freezing, freeze-thaw cycles, and
   heating to disrupt cell membranes. In other embodiments, microfluidics includes osmotic
   shock or crenation. Ultrasonic methods of lysis include, but are not limited to, sonications,
   sonoporation, sonochemistry, sonoluminescence, and sonic cavitation. Electric shock
   methods of lysis include, but are not limited to, electroporation and exposure of the cells to
30 high voltage and amperage sources. Milling or beadbeating methods of cell lysis involve
   physically colliding or grinding the cells with an object or one another, in order to break the
   cell membranes. In some embodiments, excessive shear pressure is induced by aggressive
   pipetting through a small aperture centrifuging at a high rpm which results in a high
   gravitational force being applied to the cell, turbulent flow, or applying a vacuum to the cells,
35 such that that the cell membranes are sheared apart.
            In other embodiments, chemical methods are employed to lyse the cells. In some of
   these embodiments, cells are lysed after exposure to detergents, solvents, surfactants,
                                                    12

    WO 2015/002937                                                            PCT/US2014/045032
   hemolysis, or combinations thereof. Exposure to detergents and/or solvents may also disrupt
   cell membranes and remove lipid barriers surrounding the cells. Further, exposure to
   detergents, surfactants, and hemolysins can also aid in the removal of other debris that may
   be present in the cell solution. In other embodiments, cells are lysed due to a pH imbalance
 5 induced by exposure to an acidic (pH less than 7), basic (pH greater than 7) or neutral
   solution (pH equals 7). In additional embodiments, additional ions, such as sodium,
   potassium, and calcium, are added to the physiological solution to alter the osmolarity of the
   solution such that it is no longer isotonic. Examples include, but are not limited to, water,
   triton, peroxides, antibiotics, and other bioburden reducing solutions.
10          In further embodiments, the cells are lysed using a biological method or process. In
   some embodiments, the cells are contacted with an enzyme, such as lysozyme, mannases,
   proteases, lipidases, glycanases, or combinations thereof, which lyse the cell membranes. In
   other embodiments, viruses are employed to lyse the cell membranes.
            Continuing with Figure 1, as the endogenous intracellular components are released,
15 at least some are collected 101b. In some embodiments, substantially all of the intracellular
   components are separated from the cell membrane components and collected. In other
   embodiments, a subset of the intracellular components is collected. In these embodiments,
   the desired intracellular components are collected and separated from the rest of the cell
   membrane fragments and/or the other intracellular components using a suitable separating
20 technique. In these embodiments, where a selective subset of intracellular components is
   obtained during lysis, the steps 101a and 101b are collectively referred to as selective lysis.
   In some embodiments, the separated intracellular components are used in subsequent steps
   of the methods described herein. In other embodiments, the remaining intracellular
   components in the lysate are used in subsequent steps of the methods described herein. In
25 either case, the portion containing the desired intracellular components is referred to as the
   endogenous intracellular component slurry in the remainder of the steps.
            In some embodiments, the desired intracellular components are separated using a
   chromatography technique. Suitable chromatography techniques include, but are not limited
   to, size exclusion chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, expanded bed absorption
30 chromatography, affinity chromatography (including but not limited to supercritical fluid
   chromatography),       displacement      chromatography,     gas     chromatography,     liquid
   chromatography, column chromatography, planar chromatography (including, but not limited
   to paper chromatography, thin-layer chromatography), reverse-phase chromatography,
   simulated moving-bed chromatography, pyrolysis gas chromatography, fast protein liquid
35 chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, ultra high performance liquid
   chromatography, countercurrent chromatography, and chiral chromatography.
                                                   13

    WO 2015/002937                                                             PCT/US2014/045032
            In other embodiments, the desired intracellular components are separated using an
   immunoseparation technique. In these embodiments, antibodies specific for a particular
   intracellular component are employed to bind the desired intracellular component. The
   antibody-intracellular component complex can then be separated from the rest of the lysate
 5 using antibody purification methods known in the art. In some embodiments, the antibody
   intracellular component complex is separated from the lysate by exposing the lysate to an
   immunoglobulin affinity column. In other embodiments, the antibody is complexes to a
   magnetic compound or ion. In these embodiments, the antibody-intracellular component
   complex is separated from the complex using a magnetic field. After separation from the
10 lysate, the antibody can be separated from the intracellular component using techniques
   generally known in the art.
            In other embodiments, the lysate solution is exposed to a substrate having a charged
   surface. Suitable substrates include, but are not limited to, ion resins, ceramics, mineralized
   tissues, demineralized tissues, soft tissues, metals, plastics, polymers, and combinations
15 thereof. The surface of these substrates can inherently carry a charge or be configured such
   that they carry a charge. The surface of the substrate can carry a positive or negative
   charge. The charged surface of the substrate attracts oppositely charged intracellular
   components present in the lysate.
            Continuing with Figure 1, it is determined in step 102 if the lysate or separated
20 intracellular components are to be neutralized or not. In some embodiments, the lysate or
   intracellular components are neutralized in step 103. In these embodiments, the pH of the
   lysate or a solution containing the separated desired intracellular components is adjusted to
   about 6 to about 8. In an embodiment, the pH of the lysate or the solution containing the
   separated desired intracellular components is adjusted to about 7. In one non-limiting
25 example, HCL or acetic acid can optionally be used to render the solution more acidic or
   NaOH or a buffer (like PBS) may neutralize the solution or make it more basic.
            In some embodiments, after neutralizing the lysate or the solution containing the
   separated desired intracellular components in step 103 or determining not to neutralize the
   lysate or the solution containing the separated desired intracellular components in step 102,
30 it is determined in step 104 if the endogenous intracellular component slurry is to be stored
   or not. In embodiments where the endogenous intracellular component slurry is to be stored,
   the slurry is stored by a suitable method for later use in step 106. In some of these
   embodiments, the slurry is dehydrated (partial or complete). The dehydrated slurry can be
   cut to a desired shape and size. For example, the dehydrated slurry can be irregular, or
35 about spherical, rectangular, triangular, or sheet-like. One of ordinary skill in the art will
   appreciate that the desired shape and size of the dehydrated slurry will depend on a variety
   of factors, including but not limited to, the implant use and the location of implantation. In
                                                  14

    WO 2015/002937                                                                PCT/US2014/045032
   other embodiments, the slurry is lyophilized. In some embodiments, the slurry, dehydrated
   slurry, or lyophilized slurry is placed in a suitable container. In some embodiments, the
   container is air tight. In other embodiments, the container can withstand freezing.
             In some embodiments, the container contains information regarding the donor
 5 source, lot number, intracellular components contained therein, and/or other information,
   which identifies or otherwise characterizes the endogenous intracellular component slurry. In
   further embodiments, the slurry, dehydrated slurry, or lyophilized slurry is stored at about
   40C to about -209'C. The slurry can be stored prior to use for up to about 5 years. In some
   embodiments, additional compounds are added to the slurry prior to storage. Suitable
10 compounds include, but are not limited to, preservatives, cryoprotectants, diluents,
   antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, pH stabilizers, osmostablizers, protease inhibitors or
   combinations thereof.
             In some embodiments, it is determined in step 107 whether to use the stored slurry.
   In some embodiments where it is decided to use the stored slurry, the stored slurry is used
15 in step 202 in Figure 2. In other embodiments, the stored slurry is used in step 302 of Figure
   3.
             In embodiments where it is determined in step 104 that the slurry is not to be stored,
   it is determined in step 105 whether to use the slurry containing endogenous intracellular
   components directly as filler for implantation in a subject. If it is decided to use the slurry
20 directly as filler, the slurry is implanted into a subject as filler. In some embodiments,
   additional components are added to the slurry prior to use as a filler. Suitable compounds
   include, but are not limited to, preservatives, diluents, antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, pH
   stabilizers,      osmostablizers,   anti-inflammants,     anti-neoplastics,   chemotherapeutics,
   immunomodulators        (including immunosuppressants),       chemoattractants, growth factors,
25 anticoagulants, or combinations thereof.
              In some embodiments, the slurry is implanted into a subject at a location that has
   been determined by a medical practitioner to be in need of a filler. In addition to providing
   volume to the implantation site, the filler can aid in recruitment of compounds, such as
   growth factors and cytokines, to the implantation site. This facilitates the growth and
30 development of existing cells and stimulates the growth and development of new cells at the
   implantation site. As such, when the filler is absorbed by the body, the subject's own cells
   remain in place to level out the depression in the skin. In one non-limiting example, a
   dermatologist or reconstructive medicine practitioner determines to use the filler to add
   substance to depressions in skin (e.g. wrinkles) to even out the skin surface and administers
35 the filler to a depression in the skin.
             In further embodiments, the filler is administered to a location in a subject that has a
   tissue implant graft already in place or is added to the site of a tissue graft during the same
                                                     15

    WO 2015/002937                                                             PCT/US2014/045032
   procedure that the tissue graft is being implanted in the subject. As previously described, the
   filler can aid in recruitment of compounds, such as growth factors and cytokines, to the
   implantation site. This facilitates the growth and developments of existing cells in the area
   and the growth and development of new cells at the implantation site. This process also
 5 enhances integration of the tissue graft to the surrounding tissue, which improves
   performance of the tissue graft.
            In some embodiments where it is determined not to use the slurry as filler, the slurry
   can be used in steps 205 or 206 of Figure 2. In other embodiments, the slurry can be used in
   steps 305 or 306 of Figure 3. In some embodiments, prior to use in steps 205, 206, 305, or
10 306, additional compounds are added to the slurry. Suitable compounds include, but are not
   limited to, preservatives, diluents, antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, pH stabilizers,
   osmostablizers, anti-inflammants, anti-neoplastics, chemotherapeutics, immunomodulators
   (including immunosuppressants), chemoattractants, or combinations thereof.
            During the generation of the slurry, the hydrophobic components of the adipose cells
15 are separated from the hydrophilic components of the adipose cells. According to the steps
   previously described, the slurry contains only the hydrophilic components. However, in some
   embodiments, for example where increased lubricity is desired, the some of the hydrophobic
   components can be added back into the slurry.
            Attention is now directed to Figure 2, which is a flow diagram illustrating one
20 embodiment of a method of incorporating the stored or un-stored slurry of Figure 1 into a
   carrier substrate. As previously discussed, the slurry contains one or more intracellular
   components, which can enhance the performance of a soft tissue graft or implant. The
   embodiments discussed in relation to Figure 2 are directed towards incorporating the
   intracellular components in a carrier substrate, which then can be administered to a subject
25 in need thereof. In some embodiments, the carrier substrate is isolated along with the slurry.
   In other words, the slurry is generated such that it contains the carrier substrate as well as
   the intracellular growth factors and other hydrophilic components. In other embodiments, the
   slurry does not contain a carrier substrate. In either case, carrier substrate(s) can be added
   to the slurry as described below.
30          In some embodiments, the carrier substrate further enhances the performance of the
   soft tissue graft or implant. For example, the carrier substrate can be a scaffold, which
   provides an environment for cell growth and development. Suitable carrier substrates include
   but are not limited to, allogeneic, autologous, syngeneic, or xenogeneic complete
   extracellular matrix, decIlularized extracellular matrix, or extracellular matrix components
35 such as hydrogels, synthetic or natural polymer solids and semi-solids, carbohydrates, self
   assembling peptides, carbon nanotubes, chitosan, alginate, hyaluronic acid, bone powder,
   cartilage powder, proteins, sugars, plastics, metals, or combinations thereof. In some
                                                   16

    WO 2015/002937                                                              PCT/US2014/045032
   embodiments, the carrier substrate is biocompatible. In embodiments, the carrier substrate is
   prepared for use 200 by methods generally known in the art. In some embodiments, the
   carrier substrate is already ready for use and no preparation is necessary. In some
   embodiments, the ratio of slurry to carrier substrate ranges from about 1:1 v/v to about 10:1
 5 v/v. In other embodiments, the ratio of slurry to carrier substrate ranges from about 1:1 v/v to
   about 1:100 v/v.
            After the carrier substrate is prepared 200, it is determined whether or not to use
   stored 106, (Figurel) or un-stored (fresh) 105, (Figure 1) slurry 201. In embodiments where
   it is decided to use stored slurry, the stored slurry from step 106 (Figure 1) is prepared for
10 use in step 202. In some embodiments, preparation of the stored slurry includes thawing the
   slurry. In other embodiments, preparation of the stored slurry includes rehydrating the slurry.
   If the slurry is not rehydrated prior to use, it will become rehydrated upon introduction into
   the body of a subject when it contacts the biological fluids within the body. In further
   embodiments, the preparation process requires no additional preparation of the stored
15 sample other than to take it from storage. After the stored slurry is prepared 202, the
   prepared slurry is then combined with the carrier substrate 203 using suitable methods.
            In embodiments where it is decided to not to use the stored slurry, it is determined in
   step 204 whether to further process the fresh slurry from step 105 (Figure 1). In
   embodiments where it is determined to further process fresh slurry from step 105 (Figure 1),
20 the slurry is further processed 206. The slurry can be further processed by filtering,
   concentrating, diluting, and/or fortifying with additional compounds, such as preservatives,
   antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, pH stabilizers, osmostablizers, anti-inflammants, anti
   neoplastics,    chemotherapeutics,     immunomodulators       (including  immunosuppressants),
   chemoattractants, or combinations thereof.
25          After further processing 206, the further processed slurry is combined with the
   prepared carrier substrate 207. The carrier substrate containing the slurry can then be
   implanted into a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments, the carrier substrate
   containing the slurry is implanted into a subject at a location that has been determined by a
   medical practitioner to be in need thereof. In addition to providing volume to the implantation
30 site, the carrier substrate containing the slurry can aid in recruitment of compounds, such as
   growth factors and cytokines, to the implantation site. This facilitates the growth and
   development of existing cells and stimulates the growth and development of new cells at the
   implantation site. As such, when the carrier substrate and/or slurry is absorbed by the body,
   the subject's own cells remain in place to level out the depression in the skin. In one non
35 limiting example, a dermatologist or reconstructive medicine practitioner determines to use
   the carrier substrate containing the slurry to add substance to depressions in skin (e.g.
                                                   17

    WO 2015/002937                                                              PCT/US2014/045032
   wrinkles) to even out the skin surface and administers the carrier substrate containing the
   slurry to a depression in the skin.
            In further embodiments, the carrier substrate containing the slurry or components
   thereof is administered to a location in a subject that has a tissue implant already in place or
 5 is added to the site of a tissue graft during the same procedure that the tissue graft is being
   implanted in the subject. In other embodiments, the carrier substrate containing the slurry
   can be added to a tissue graft prior to the tissue graft from being implanted. As previously
   described, the carrier substrate containing the slurry can aid in recruitment of compounds,
   such as growth factors and cytokines, to the implantation site. This facilitates the growth and
10 development of existing cells in the area and the growth and development of new cells at the
   implantation cite. This process also enhances integration of the tissue graft to the
   surrounding tissue, which improves performance of the tissue graft.
            In embodiments where it is determined not to further process the fresh slurry from
   step 105 (Figure 1), the fresh slurry is combined with the carrier substrate 205 as previously
15 described. The combined carrier substrate/slurry can be administered to a subject in need
   thereof as previously described above with respect to processed fresh slurry.
            Turning now to Figure 3, which shows a flow diagram illustrating embodiments of a
   method of incorporating the stored or un-stored slurry of Figure 1 into a soft tissue graft. As
   previously discussed, the slurry contains one or more intracellular components, which can
20 enhance the performance of a soft tissue graft. The method begins with preparation of a soft
   tissue graft 300. In some embodiments, the soft tissue graft is harvested from a donor. The
   soft tissue graft can be allogeneic, autologous, syngeneic, or xenogeneic. In other
   embodiments, the soft tissue graft is obtained from a soft tissue graft developed or
   maintained by in vitro or ex vivo culture. In some embodiments, the soft tissue graft is
25 cleaned, sterilized, and/or decellularized. In some embodiments, the soft tissue graft is ready
   to use and no preparation steps are needed.
            After the soft tissue graft is prepared 300, it is determined whether or not to use
   stored 106, (Figurel) or un-stored (fresh) 105, (Figure 1) slurry 201. In embodiments where
   it is decided to use stored slurry, the stored slurry from step 106 (Figure 1) is prepared for
30 use in step 302. In some embodiments, preparation of the stored slurry includes thawing the
   slurry. In other embodiments, preparation of the stored slurry includes rehydrating the slurry.
   If the slurry is not rehydrated prior to use, it will become rehydrated upon introduction into
   the body of a subject when it contacts the biological fluids within the body. In further
   embodiments, the preparation process requires no additional preparation of the stored
35 sample other than to take it from storage.
            After the stored slurry is prepared 302, the prepared slurry is combined with the soft
   tissue graft 303 using suitable methods. In some embodiments, the slurry is combined with
                                                   18

    WO 2015/002937                                                                  PCT/US2014/045032
   the soft tissue graft prior to grafting the soft tissue graft in a subject. In other embodiments,
   the slurry is combined with the soft tissue graft after the soft tissue graft is already in place
   within a subject.
            In embodiments where it is decided not to use stored slurry, it is determined whether
 5 or not to further process the fresh slurry from step 105 (Figure 1). In embodiments where it is
   determined to further process fresh slurry from step 105 (Figure 1), the slurry is further
   processed in step 306. The slurry can be further processed by filtering, concentrating,
   diluting, and/or fortifying with additional compounds, such as preservatives, antibiotics,
   antivirals, antifungals, pH stabilizers, osmostablizers, anti-inflammants, anti-neoplastics,
10 chemotherapeutics,       immunomodulators        (including   immunosuppressants),       angiogenic
   compounds, vasculogenic chemoattractants, or combinations thereof.
            After further processing in step 306, the further processed slurry is combined with the
   prepared soft tissue graft in step 307. In some embodiments, the slurry is combined with the
   soft tissue graft prior to grafting the soft tissue graft in a subject. In other embodiments, the
15 slurry is combined with the soft tissue graft after the soft tissue graft is already in place within
   a subject.
            In embodiments where it is determined not to further process the fresh slurry from
   step 105, (Figure 1), the fresh slurry is combined with the soft tissue graft 305. In some
   embodiments, the slurry is combined with the soft tissue graft prior to grafting the soft tissue
20 graft in a subject. In other embodiments, the slurry is combined with the soft tissue graft after
   the soft tissue graft is already in place within a subject.
            With embodiments of the methods of producing the slurry containing intracellular
   components, soft tissue implants and grafts combined with the slurry containing intracellular
   components understood, attention is directed to Figure 4, which shows one embodiment of a
25 delivery device 400 containing a slurry or combined slurry and carrier substrate 401, as
   produced according to the embodiments described herein. The delivery device 400 contains
   a tip 402 that is mechanically coupled to a hollow container 407. In some embodiments the
   tip 402 is tapered. The opening of the tip 402 can range from about 7 gauge to about 34
   gauge. In some embodiments, the opening of the tip 402 is beveled. In other embodiments,
30 the opening of the tip 402 is flush. In some embodiments, the tip 402 configured to
   mechanically lock onto the hollow container 407.
            The hollow container 407 is configured to hold the slurry or the combined slurry and
   carrier substrate 401. In some embodiments, the hollow container 407 is configured to hold
   about 0.1 cc to about 1000 cc of slurry or the slurry combined with a carrier substrate. In one
35 embodiment, the hollow container 407 is configured to hold up to about 1 cc of slurry or
   slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In another embodiment, the hollow container 407 is
   configured to hold up to about 5 cc of slurry or slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In yet further
                                                      19

   WO 2015/002937                                                               PCT/US2014/045032
   embodiments, the hollow container 407 is configured to hold up to about 10 cc of slurry or
   slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In yet further embodiments, the hollow container 407 is
   configured to hold up to about 20 cc of slurry or slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In other
   embodiments, the hollow container 407 is configured to hold up to about 50 cc of slurry or
 5 slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In still other embodiments, the hollow container 407 is
   configured to hold up to about 100 cc of slurry or slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In further
   embodiments, the hollow container 407 is configured to hold up to about 500 cc of slurry or
   slurry/carrier substrate mixture. In other embodiments, the hollow container 407 is
   configured to hold up to about 1000 cc of slurry or slurry/carrier substrate mixture.
10          In an embodiment, the hollow container is coupled to a handle 403 that is made up of
   a first grip 406 and a trigger portion 402. A movable plunger 404 is mechanically coupled to
   the handle 403 and hollow container 407. The movable plunger 404 extends through the
   handle 403 and into the end of the hollow container 407 opposite of the tip 402. The
   moveable plunger 404 is configured to apply positive or negative pressure to the hollow
15 container and the contents contained therein. At the end opposite the hollow container, the
   movable plunger contains a second grip 405.
            In some embodiments, positive pressure is applied to the hollow container by
   applying pressure on the second grip 405 and pushing the second grip 405 towards the
   handle 403. In other embodiments, the trigger 408 is squeezed. The trigger 408 is
20 configured such that it applies a positive pressure on the plunger when the trigger 408 is
   squeezed. When pressure is applied to the second grip 405 or trigger 408, and the plunger
   end inside the hollow container 407 moves closer to the tip 402, this expels the slurry or
   combined slurry and carrier substrate 401 from the device 400. Negative pressure is applied
   by pulling on the second grip 405 and pulling the second grip 405 away from the handle 403.
25 This moves the end of the movable plunger 404 that is inside the hollow container 407 closer
   to the handle 403 and away from the tip 402. Negative pressure pulls content into the hollow
   container 407. In further embodiments, the delivery device 400 is configured such that
   positive or negative pressure is generated by a machine as opposed to a human user.
            Figure 5 shows another embodiment of a delivery device 500 containing a slurry or
30 combined slurry and carrier substrate 501 as produced according to the methods described
   herein. The delivery device 500 contains a tip 503 that is mechanically coupled to a hollow
   container 502. In some embodiments, the tip 503 is tapered. The opening of the tip 503 can
   range from about 7 gauge to about 34 gauge. In some embodiments, the opening of the tip
   503 is beveled. In other embodiments, the opening of the tip 503 is flush. In some
35 embodiments, the tip 503 configured to mechanically lock onto the hollow container 503. For
   example, the mechanical lock can be a luer lock.
                                                 20

    WO 2015/002937                                                             PCT/US2014/045032
           The hollow container 502 is configured to hold the slurry or the combined slurry and
   carrier substrate 501. In some embodiments, the hollow container 502 is coupled to a ridge
   portion 506 that forms a grip for fingers of a user 507 as shown in Figure 5. A movable
   plunger 504 is mechanically coupled to the hollow container 502. The movable plunger 504
 5 extends through one end of the hollow container 502 opposite of the tip 503. The moveable
   plunger 504 is configured to apply positive or negative pressure to the hollow container 502
   and the contents contained therein. At the end opposite to the hollow container 502, the
   movable plunger 504 contains a thumb rest 508.
           In one embodiment, positive pressure is applied to the hollow container 502 by
10 pressure to the thumb rest 508, and thus, depresses the plunger 504 further into the hollow
   container 502. In some embodiments, a user holds the device 500 between two or more
   fingers 507. One finger 507, for example the thumb, can be placed on the thumb rest 508,
   while one or more other fingers 507 can be placed on either side of the hollow container 502
   under the ridge portion 506, as demonstrated in Figure 5. Positive pressure can be applied
15 to the hollow container 502 by moving the thumb 507 closer to the other finger(s) 507 under
   the ridge portion 506. This depresses the plunger 504 and creates positive pressure on the
   hollow container 502. Negative pressure can be applied by pulling back on the plunger 504.
   Positive pressure expels contents 501 of the hollow container 502 and negative pressure
   draws contents into the hollow container 502. In some embodiments, the application of
20 positive pressure expels the contents 501 of the hollow container 502 into a subject in need
   thereof 505. In further embodiments, the delivery device 500 is configured such that positive
   or negative pressure is generated by a machine as opposed to a human user. For example,
   in some embodiments the delivery device 500 is loaded into a machine, which contains
   portion, which applies positive pressure to the movable plunger 504. Examples of such
25 machines are known in the art.
           Also provided herein are soft tissue implants that contain a bioactive intracellular
   component of an adipose cell. In some embodiments, the soft tissue implant is a slurry. In
   one embodiment, the slurry is derived from adipocytes that are harvested from in vitro
   cultured adipocytes or from adipocytes harvested directly from tissue. In other embodiments,
30 the slurry is derived from other types of soft tissue cells. Such cells include, but are not
   limited to, muscle, epithelial cells, tendons, and ligaments. The intracellular components
   contained in the slurry include but are not limited to proteins (both structural and non
   structural), nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, and other molecules. In some embodiments,
   the slurry contains an enriched or concentrated amount of these endogenous intracellular
35 components. In some embodiments, the donor cells are selectively lysed, as previously
   described, such that the slurry selectively contains growth factors, particularly vascular
                                                   21

    WO 2015/002937                                                                  PCT/US2014/045032
   endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), transforming growth
   factor beta 1 (TGFb1), acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF).
            As previously discussed, an effective amount of the slurry prepared according to the
   methods described herein, can be administered to subjects in need thereof as a filler. In
 5 some embodiments, the slurry is configured as a paste. In other embodiments, an effective
   amount of the slurry can already contain and/or be combined with a carrier substrate as
   previously described, and the combination can then be administered to a subject in need
   thereof. In further embodiments, an effective amount of the slurry can be administered after
   placement of a soft tissue graft (other than one already incorporating the slurry). In other
10 embodiments, an effective amount of the slurry can be incorporated directly to a soft tissue
   graft (that is not the slurry or slurry/carrier substrate itself) ex vivo prior to implantation. The
   effective dose may be between about 1mL to 1000 ml.
            The slurries (including those containing a carrier substrate), implants, and grafts and
   delivery devices described herein can be presented as a combination kit. As used herein,
15 the terms "combination kit" or "kit of parts" refers to the slurries, implants, and grafts and
   delivery devices and additional components that are used to package, sell, market, deliver,
   and/or administer the combination of elements or a single element, such as the active
   ingredient, contained therein. Such additional components include but are not limited to,
   packaging, syringes, blister packages, bottles, and the like. In one embodiment the kit
20 contains a soft tissue implant containing a bioactive intracellular component of an adipose
   cell, and a carrier substrate. In some embodiments, the soft tissue implant contained in the
   kit is generated by a method involving harvesting an adipose cell from a donor, selectively
   lysing the adipose cell to obtain a bioactive intracellular component, and combining the
   bioactive intracellular component with a carrier substrate.
25          In some embodiments, the combination kit also includes instructions printed on or
   otherwise contained in a tangible medium of expression. The instructions can provide
   information regarding the content of the compound or pharmaceutical formulations contained
   therein, safety information regarding the content of the slurry(ies), implant(s), graft(s), and
   delivery device(s) contained therein, information regarding the dosages, indications for use,
30 and/or recommended treatment regimen(s) for the slurry(ies), implant(s), graft(s), and
   delivery device(s) contained therein. In an embodiment, the instructions provide directions
   for administering the soft tissue implant to a subject in need thereof as a filler or as part of a
   tissue graft being implanted in the subject. In some embodiments, the instructions provide
   directions for administering the slurry(ies), implant(s), and graft(s) to a subject in need
35 thereof. Indications for use include, but are not limited to, reduction of fibrous capsule
   formation after other soft tissue implants (e.g. soft tissue (i.e., breast), vascular (i.e. stents),
   or joint implants) caused by the introduction of allogeneic cells or other foreign bodies,
                                                     22

    WO 2015/002937                                                          PCT/US2014/045032
   reduction of implant induced inflammation, improving implant integration into surrounding
   tissue, improving quality or coloring of skin, or repair of depressions in skin or other soft
   tissue.
 5                                           EXAMPLES
           Now having described the embodiments of the present disclosure, in general, the
   following Examples describe some additional embodiments of the present disclosure. While
   embodiments of the present disclosure are described in connection with the following
   examples and the corresponding text and figures, there is no intent to limit embodiments of
10 the present disclosure to this description. On the contrary, the intent is to cover all
   alternatives, modifications, and equivalents included within the spirit and scope of
   embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Example 1: Increased growth factors in soft tissue implants containing adipose
15 derived intracellular compounds.
           Introduction
           Soft tissue implants made according to the methods described herein contain
   intracellular components, including growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor
   (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and transforming growth factor beta 1
20 (TGFb1). In order to assess the growth factor content of the soft tissue implants described
   herein, adipose derived intracellular content was harvested and processed according to
   methods described herein and applied to an extracellular matrix. This composition is referred
   to as LipoAmp in this Example. The growth factor content of LipoAmp was compared to a
   control soft tissue implant as described in Brown, et al. 2011. Tissue Eng. Part C, 17:411
25 423.
           Materials and Methods
           Briefly, subcutaneous fat was separated from the dermal layer of a subject. The
   harvested subcutaneous fat was ground via a blender to mechanically disrupt the cellular
   structure to form a mixture of hydrophilic and hydrophobic components. The hydrophilic and
30 hydrophobic components were separated from one another based on their buoyancy. The
   hydrophobic portion, which contains inter alia the lipids, was discarded. Acetic acid (up to
   50% v/v, e.g. about 25% v/v) was added to the hydrophilic fraction. The optional step of
   adding up to 1M HCI, was performed. Here, 0.6N HCI was added to the hydrophilic fraction.
   The resulting solution was then neutralized in phosphate buffered saline or NaOH as
35 necessary. Excess liquids were removed via centrifugations.
                                                 23

    WO 2015/002937                                                             PCT/US2014/045032
           Results
           The results of this experiment are shown in Figure 6, which demonstrates increased
   growth factor content in a carrier substrate combined with adipose-derived intracellular
   compounds ("LipoAmp") as compared to control. Concentration (pg/g of implant) of the
 5 growth factors is shown on the y axis. The growth factors are shown on the x-axis. The soft
   tissue implant composition as described herein had a greater amount of VEGF, bFGF, and
   TGFb1.
   Example 2: Increased adipose-derived soft tissue implantation volume compared to
10 native tissue in vivo.
           Introduction
           The effect of a soft tissue implant made and administered according to the methods
   described herein ("LipoAmp") on implant volume post implantation was examined in vivo.
           Materials and Methods
15 LipoAmp was prepared as previously described in Example 1.
           Results
           The results of this experiment are demonstrated in Figure 7. As demonstrated by
   Figure 7, while the Lipoamp implant and control maintained about the same volume, at about
   week 4, the performance of the two implants diverged. Over weeks 5 to 8, the Lipoamp
20 implant maintained the volume at approximately 8 percent of the volume present at the start
   of the experiment. In contrast, the control implant decreased steadily in volume over weeks 5
   to 8.
   Example 3: Soft tissue implant containing adipose-derived intracellular compounds
25 induces ectopic adipogenesis in vivo
           Introduction
           The effect of a soft tissue implant made and administered according to methods
   described herein ("LipoAmp") on adipogenesis was examined in vivo.
           Materials and Methods
30         To generate the LipoAmp, subcutaneous fat was separated from the dermal layer of
   a subject. The harvested subcutaneous fat was ground via a blender to mechanically disrupt
   the cellular structure to form a mixture of hydrophilic and hydrophobic components. The
   hydrophilic and hydrophobic components were separated from one another based on their
   buoyancy. The hydrophobic portion, which contains inter alia the lipids, was discarded.
35 Acetic acid (up to 50% v/v, e.g. about 25% v/v) was added to the hydrophilic fraction. The
   optional step of adding up to 1M HCI, was performed. Here, 0.6N HCI was added to the
   hydrophilic fraction. The resulting solution was then neutralized in phosphate buffered saline
                                                  24

   WO 2015/002937                                                       PCT/US2014/045032
  or NaOH as necessary. Excess liquids were removed via centrifugations. The LipoAmp was
  then administered to a subject.
         Results
         The results of this experiment are shown in Figures 8A and 8B. As demonstrated in
5 Figure 8B, adipogenesis is induced from the implant.
                                              25

                                               CLAIMS
We claim:
         1.     A soft tissue implant comprising:
        hydrophilic bioactive intracellular components of donor adipose tissue wherein the
hydrophilic bioactive intracellular components comprise a growth factor; and
        components of donor fascia tissue, donor dermis tissue, or donor fascia tissue and donor
dermis tissue;
        wherein the soft tissue implant does not contain hydrophobic components from the
adipose tissue.
        2.      The soft tissue implant of claim 1, wherein the growth factor is selected from the
group consisting of: vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming
growth factor beta 1, acidic fibroblast growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, and any combination
thereof.
        3.      The soft tissue implant of claim 1, wherein the donor is selected from the group
consisting of: an autologous donor, allogeneic donor, xenogeneic donor, and a syngeneic donor.
        4.      The soft tissue implant of claim 3, wherein the donor is an allogeneic donor.
        5.      The soft tissue implant of claim 1, wherein the soft tissue implant is dehydrated.
        6.      The soft tissue implant of claim 1, wherein the soft tissue implant further comprises
a compound selected from the group consisting of: a preservative, an antibiotic, an antiviral, a
pH stabilizer, an osmostabilizer, an anti-inflammant, an anti-neoplastic, an additional growth
factor, an angiogenic compound, a vasculogenic compound, a chemotherapeutic, an
immunomodulatory, a chemoattractant, and combinations thereof.
        7.      The soft tissue implant of claim 1, further comprising native extracellular matrix
components of the donor adipose tissue, wherein the hydrophilic bioactive intracellular
components are bound to the native extracellular matrix components,
                                                  26

        8. The soft tissue implant of claim 1, wherein the components of donor fascia tissue, donor
dermis tissue, or donor fascia tissue and donor dermis tissue are bioactive intracellular
components.
        9.      A method comprising:
        harvesting adipose tissue from a donor;
        harvesting fascia tissue, dermis tissue, or fascia and dermis tissue from the donor;
        separating a hydrophilic fraction from a hydrophobic fraction of the adipose tissue;
        lysing the hydrophilic fraction in an acidic solution to obtain a lysate comprising bioactive
intracellular components of the hydrophilic fraction, wherein the bioactive intracellular
components comprise a growth factor.
        10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the growth factor is selected from the group
consisting of: vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming
growth factor beta 1, acidic fibroblast growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, and any combination
thereof..
        11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the donor is selected from the group consisting of
an autologous donor, allogeneic donor, xenogeneic donor, and a syngeneic donor.
        12.     The method of claim 9, wherein the donor is allogeneic.
        13.     The method of claim 9, wherein the acidic solution comprises up to 50% v/v acetic
acid.
        14.     The method of claim 9, wherein native extracellular matrix components are
retained from the adipose tissue during lysing and wherein the bioactive intracellular components
bind to the native extracellular matrix components during lysing.
        15.     The method of claim 14, and wherein the ratio of bioactive intracellular components
to native extracellular matrix components is about 1:1 (v/v) to about 1:100 (v/v).
                                                  27

        16.     The method of claim 9, further comprising administering the soft tissue implant to
a subject in need thereof.
        17.     The method of claim 9, further comprising adding a compound from the group
consisting of: a preservative, an antibiotic, an antiviral, an antifungal, a pH stabilizer, an
osmostablizer, an anti-inflammant, an anti-neoplastic, a growth factor, an angiogenic compound,
a vasculogenic compound, a chemotherapeutic, an immunomodulatory, a chemoattractant, and
combinations thereof at least to the bioactive intracellular component.
        18.     The method of claim 9, further comprising lysing the fascia tissue, dermis tissue,
or fascia and dermis tissue in an acidic solution to obtain a lysate comprising bioactive intracellular
components of the fascia tissue, dermis tissue, or fascia and dermis tissue.
        19.     A kit comprising:
        hydrophilic bioactive intracellular components of donor adipose tissue wherein the
hydrophilic bioactive intracellular components comprise a growth factor; and
        components of donor fascia tissue, donor dermis tissue, or donor fascia tissue and donor
dermis tissue;
        wherein the soft tissue implant does not contain hydrophobic components from the
adipose tissue; and
        instructions contained in a tangible medium of expression, wherein the instructions provide
directions for administering the soft tissue implant into a subject in need thereof.
        20.     The kit of claim 19, further comprising a delivery device having a hollow container
and a plunger, wherein the plunger is mechanically coupled to the hollow container, and wherein
the delivery device is configured to contain the soft tissue implant within the hollow container.
                                                  28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
