                                              ABSTRACT
  The present invention concerns bioactive renal cell populations, renal cell constructs, and methods of
  making and using the same.
5
  9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                                             BIOACTIVE RENAL CELLS
                The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian patent application
   no. <removed-apn> is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
 5 Field of the Invention
                The present invention relates to bioactive renal cell populations or fractions that lack cellular
   components as compared to a healthy individual yet retain therapeutic properties, and methods of
   isolating and culturing the same, as well as methods of treating a subject in need with the cell
   populations. In addition, the present invention relates to methods of providing regenerative effects to
10 a native kidney using bioactive renal cell populations.
   Background of the Invention
                Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) affects over 19 million people in the United States and is
   frequently a consequence of metabolic disorders involving obesity, diabetes, and hypertension.
15 Examination of the data reveals that the rate of increase is due to the development of renal failure
   secondary to hypertension and non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) (United States
   Renal Data System: Costs of CKD and ESRD. ed. Bethesda, MD, National Institutes of Health,
   National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 2007 pp 223-238) - two diseases
   that are also on the rise worldwide. Obesity, hypertension, and poor glycemic control have all been
20 shown to be independent risk factors for kidney damage, causing glomerular and tubular lesions and
   leading to proteinuria and other systemically-detectable alterations in renal filtration function
   (Aboushwareb, et al., World J Urol, 26: 295-300, 2008; Amann, K. et al., Nephrol Dial Transplant,
    13: 1958-66, 1998). CKD patients in stages 1-3 of progression are managed by lifestyle changes and
   pharmacological interventions aimed at controlling the underlying disease state(s), while patients in
25 stages 4-5 are managed by dialysis and a drug regimen that typically includes anti-hypertensive
   agents, erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs), iron and vitamin D supplementation. Regenerative
   medicine technologies may provide next-generation therapeutic options for CKD.                    Presnell et al.
   WO/2010/056328 describe isolated renal cells, including tubular and erythropoietin (EPO)-producing
   kidney cell populations, and methods of isolating and culturing the same, as well as methods of
30 treating a subject in need with the cell populations. There is a need for new treatment paradigms that
   provide substantial and durable augmentation of kidney functions, to slow progression and improve
   quality of life in this patient population.
                It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does
   not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
35 art in Australia or any other country.
                                                             -1
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for providing a regenerative effect to a
   native kidney. In one embodiment, the method includes the step of in vivo contacting the native
   kidney with products secreted by an enriched renal cell population.            In another embodiment, the
 5 products are secreted by an enriched renal cell population that is not part of a construct, as described
   herein, e.g., the cell population is not seeded on a scaffold. In one other embodiment, the products are
   secreted from a renal cell construct comprising an enriched renal cell population directly seeded on or
   in a scaffold. In another embodiment, the secretion of the products is bioresponsive to oxygen levels.
   Secretion may be induced by a less than atmospheric oxygen level. In one other embodiment, the
10 lower oxygen level is less than about 5% oxygen.
                In one embodiment, the regenerative effect is a reduction in epithelial-mesenchymal transition
   (EMT).           The reduction in EMT may be achieved via attenuation of TGF-P signalling and/or
   attenuation of Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-I (PAI-1) signalling.           In another embodiment, the
   regenerative effect is a reduction in renal fibrosis and/or a reduction in renal inflammation. In some
15 embodiments, the reduction in inflammation may be mediated by NFB.                In one other embodiment,
   the regenerative effect is characterized by differential expression of a stem cell marker in the native
   kidney. The expression may be an upregulation of marker expression in the in vivo contacted native
   kidney relative to expression in a non-contacted native kidney.
                In one aspect, the enriched renal cell population includes one or more cell populations, i.e., an
20 admixture, as described herein. In one embodiment, the population includes a first cell population,
   B2, that contains an enriched population of tubular cells.          In another embodiment, the population
   includes an admixture of human renal cells having a first cell population, B2, and a second cell
   population, which contains one or more of erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells, glomerular cells and
   vascular cells. In one other embodiment, the second cell population is a B4 cell population. In yet
25 another embodiment, the second cell population is a B3 cell population.
                In one embodiment, the admixture further includes a third cell population having one or more
   of erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells, glomerular cells and vascular cells. In another embodiment,
   the third cell population is a B4 cell population. In one other embodiment, the third cell population is
   a B3 cell population.
30              In all embodiments, the B2 cell population has a density between about 1.045 g/mL and about
    1.052 g/mL. In all embodiments, the B4 cell population has a density between about 1.063 g/mL and
   about 1.091 g/mL. In all embodiments, the B3 cell population has a density between about 1.052
   g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml.
                In all embodiments, the enriched renal cell population may be non-autologous to the native
35 kidney.        In all embodiments, the enriched renal cell population may be autologous to the native
   kidney.
                                                          -2
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In all embodiments, the products include paracrine factors, endocrine factors, juxtacrine
   factors, RNA, vesicles, microvesicles, exosomes, and any combination thereof.              In one other
   embodiment, the vesicles include one or more secreted products selected from the group consisting of
   paracrine factors, endocrine factors, juxtacrine factors, and RNA.          In another embodiment, the
 5 products are secreted from a renal cell construct comprising an enriched renal cell population directly
   seeded on or in a scaffold.
                In all embodiments, the scaffold may contain a biocompatible material. In all embodiments,
   the biocompatible material may be a hydrogel.
                In one embodiment, the present invention provides methods of assessing whether a kidney
10 disease (KD) patient is responsive to treatment with a therapeutic. The method may include the step
   of determining or detecting the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in a test sample obtained
   from a KD patient treated with the therapeutic, as compared to or relative to the amount of vesicles in
   a control sample, wherein a higher or lower amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the test
   sample as compared to the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the control sample is
15 indicative of the treated patient' s responsivenessto treatment with the therapeutic. The vesicles may
   be kidney derived vesicles.          The test sample may contain urine.     The vesicles may contain a
   biomarker, which may be miRNA. The therapeutic may contain an enriched population of renal cells.
                                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20
                Figure 1 shows enrichment of epo-producing cell fraction from freshly-dissociated kidney
   tissue using a multi-layered step gradient technique (A - left panel) or a single-layer mixing gradient
   technique (B - right panel). Both methods result in the partial depletion of non epo-producing cell
   components (predominantly tubular cells) from the epo band, which appears between 1.025 g/mL and
25  1.035 g/mL.
                Figure 2 shows step gradients of "normoxic" (210%oxygen) and "hypoxic" (2% oxygen)
   rodent cultures that were harvested separately and applied side-by-side to identical step gradients.
                Figure 3 shows step gradients of "normoxic" (210%oxygen) and "hypoxic" (2% oxygen)
   canine cultures that were harvested separately and applied side-by-side to identical step gradients.
30              Figure 4 shows histopathologic features of the HK17 and HK19 samples.
                Figure 5 shows high content analysis (HCA) of albumin transport in human NKA cells
   defining regions of interest (ROI).
                Figure 6 shows quantitative comparison of albumin transport in NKA cells derived from non
   CKD and CKD kidney.
35              Figure 7 depicts comparative analysis of marker expression between tubular-enriched B2 and
   tubular cell-depleted B4 subfractions.
                                                         -3
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Figure 8 depicts comparative functional analysis of albumin transport between tubular
   enriched B2 and tubular cell-depleted B4 subfractions.
                Figure 9 shows expression of SOX2 mRNA in host tissue after treatment of 5/6 NX rats.
                Figure 10 Western blot showing time course of expression of CD24, CD133, UTFI, SOX2,
 5 NODAL and LEFTY.
                Figure 11 depicts a time course of regenerative response index (RRI).
                Figure 12 provides a schematic for the preparation and analysis of UNFX conditioned media.
                Figure 13A-C shows that conditioned media from UNFX cultures affects multiple cellular
   processes in vitro that are potentially associated with regenerative outcomes. Figure 13A shows that
10 UNFX-conditioned media attenuates TNF-a mediated activation of NF-kB. Figure 13B shows that
   UNFX-conditioned media increases proangiogenic behavior of HUVEC cell cultures.              Figure 13C
   shows that UNFX-conditioned media attenuates fibrosis pathways in epithelial cells. Figure 13 D
   depicts the positive feedback loop established by TGF             and Plasmin ogen Activator Inhibitor-I
   (PAl-1).
15              Figure 14A-B shows a Western blot analysis demonstrating the attenuation of fibrosis
   pathways in mesangial cells.
                Figure 15A-C shows that the conditioned media from UNFX contains secreted vesicles.
   Figure 15A depicts secreted vesicles, which are bilipid structures (red) that encompass cytoplasm
   derived internal components (green). Figure 15B-C shows FACS sorting.
20              Figure 16A shows a Western blot in which total protein was prepared and assayed for PAI-I
   and bActin. Figure 16B depicts the microRNA, miR-30b-5p.
                Figure 17A-C shows representative immunohistochemistry images of PAI-I in Lewis rat
   kidneys following delivery of bioactive kidney cells after undergoing a nephrectomy. Figure 17D
   shows a comparison of PAI-I expresssion in untreated, nephrectomized rats (red squares), treated,
25 nephrectomized rats (blue diamonds), and control animals (green triangles). Figure 17E shows
   representative Western blot analysis on kidney samples taken at 3 and 6 months post-treatment.
   Figure 17F shows a 2-hour exposure to NKA conditioned media reduces nuclear localization of NFB
   p65. Figure 17G depicts the canonical activation of the NFkB pathway by TNFa
                Figure 18A-B shows the nuclear localization of NFkB p65 subunit in animals with (A)
30 progressive CKD initiated by 5/6 nephrectomy and (B) non-progressive renal insufficiency initiated
   by unilateral nephrectomy. Figure 18C-D shows (C) a Western blot analysis for NFkB p65 in extracts
   of Lewis rat kidney tissue that have undergone the 5/6 nephrectomy; and (D) electrophoretic mobility
   shift assay (EMSA) on extracts. Figure 18E shows immunohistochemical detection of the NFB p65
   subunit in tissue obtained from Lewis rats with established CKD that received intra-renal injection of
35 NKA (panel A) or non-bioactive renal cells (panel B).
                                                         -4
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Figure 19A-C shows in vivo evaluation of biomaterials at 1 week and 4 weeks post
   implantation.
                Figure 20A-D         shows live/dead staining of NKA     constructs.    Figure 20E-G shows
   transcriptomic profiling of NKA constructs.
 5              Figure 21A-B shows the secretomic profiling of NKA Constructs.
                Figure 22A-B shows proteomic profiling of NKA Constructs.
                Figure 23A-C shows confocal microscopy of NKA Constructs.
                Figure 24A-B shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Constructs at 1 week and 4 weeks post
   implantation.
10              Figure 25A-D shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Construct at 8 weeks post-implantation.
                Figure 26 shows conditioned medium from NKA Constructs attenuates TGF-@nduced EMT
   in HK2 cells in vitro.
                Figure 27 depicts the procedure for exposing cells to low oxygen during processing.
                Figure 28 shows that upon exposure to 2% Oxygen, the following was observed: alters
15 distribution of cells across a density gradient, improves overall post-gradient yield
                Figures 29A depicts an assay developed to observe repair of tubular monolayers in vitro.
   Figure 29B shows results of a Quantitative Image Analysis (BD Pathway 855 Biolmager).                Figure
   29C shows cells induced with 2% oxygen to be more proficient at repair of tubular epithelial
   monolayers.
20              Figure 30A depicts an assay developed to observe repair of tubular monolayers in vitro.
   Figure 30B shows that the induction of cells with 2% Oxygen enhanced the migration and wound
   repair compared to un-induced (21 % oxygen).              Figure 30C plots the % of migrated cells against
   migration time.
                Figure 3 1A shows that osteopontin is secreted by tubular cells and is upregulated in response
25 to injury (Osteopontin Immunocytochemistry: Hoechst nuclear stain (blue), Osteopontin (Red), lOx).
   Osteopontin is upregulated by injury in established tubular cell monolayers                  as shown by
   immunofluorescence (Figure 3 1A) and ELISA (Figure 3 1B).
                Figure 32A shows that the migratory response of cells is mediated in part by osteopontin
   (Green = migrated cells (5x)). Figure 32B shows that neutralizing antibodies (NAb) to osteopontin
30 reduce renal cell migration response by 50%.
                Figure 33 shows that low-oxygen induction of cells modulates expression of tissue
   remodeling genes.
                Figure 34 depicts a putative mechanism for low oxygen augmentation of bioactivity of cells
   leading to renal regeneration.
35              Figure 35 shows detection of microvesicles via a Western blot.
                                                           -5
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                The present invention is directed to heterogenous mixtures or fractions of bioactive renal cells
   (BRCs) and methods of isolating and culturing the same, as well as methods of treating a subject in
   need with BRCs and/or BRC-containing constructs formed from a scaffold seeded with BRCs as
 5 described herein.                 The bioactive renal cells may be isolated renal cells including tubular and
   erythropoietin (EPO)-producing kidney cells.                     The BRC cell populations may include enriched
   tubular and EPO-producing cell populations. The BRCs may be derived from or are themselves renal
   cell fractions from healthy individuals. In addition, the present invention provides renal cell fractions
   obtained from an unhealthy individual may lack certain cellular components when compared to the
10 corresponding renal cell fractions of a healthy individual, yet still retain therapeutic properties. The
   present invention also provides therapeutically-active cell populations lacking cellular components
   compared to a healthy individual, which cell populations can be, in one embodiment, isolated and
   expanded from autologous sources in various disease states.
                The present invention also relates methods of providing a regenerative effect to a native
15 kidney by in vivo contacting the native kidney with products secreted by renal cells, as well as
   methods of preparing the secreted products.                    The present invention further relates to the use of
   markers to determine the presence of renal regeneration following treatment with a method described
   herein.
20 Definitions
                Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning
   as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
   Principles of Tissue Engineering,              3 rd Ed. (Edited by R Lanza, R Langer, & J Vacanti), 2007 provides
   one skilled in the art with a general guide to many of the terms used in the present application. One
25 skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described
   herein, which could be used in the practice of the present invention. Indeed, the present invention is
   in no way limited to the methods and materials described.
                In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
30 variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
   presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
   various embodiments of the invention.
                The term "cell population" as used herein refers to a number of cells obtained by isolation
   directly from a suitable tissue source, usually from a mammal. The isolated cell population may be
35 subsequently cultured in vitro. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various methods
                                                                   -6
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   for isolating and culturing cell populations for use with the present invention and various numbers of
   cells in a cell population that are suitable for use in the present invention. A cell population may be
   an unfractionated, heterogeneous cell population derived from the kidney.                    For example, a
   heterogeneous cell population may be isolated from a kidney biopsy or from whole kidney tissue.
 5 Alternatively, the heterogeneous cell population may be derived from in vitro cultures of mammalian
   cells, established from kidney biopsies or whole kidney tissue. An unfractionated heterogeneous cell
   population may also be referred to as a non-enriched cell population.
                The term "native kidney" shall mean the kidney of a living subject. The subject may be
   healthy or un-healthy. An unhealthy subject may have a kidney disease.
10              The term "regenerative effect" shall mean an effect which provides a benefit to a native
   kidney. The effect may include, without limitation, a reduction in the degree of injury to a native
   kidney or an improvement in, restoration of, or stabilization of a native kidney function. Renal injury
   may be in the form of fibrosis, inflammation, glomerular hypertrophy, etc. and related to kidney
   disease in the subject.
15              The term "admixture" as used herein refers to a combination of two or more isolated,
   enriched cell populations derived from an unfractionated, heterogeneous cell population. According
   to certain embodiments, the cell populations of the present invention are renal cell populations.
                An "enriched" cell population or preparation refers to a cell population derived from a
   starting kidney cell population (e.g., an unfractionated, heterogeneous cell population) that contains a
20 greater percentage of a specific cell type than the percentage of that cell type in the starting
   population.            For example, a starting kidney cell population can be enriched for a first, a second, a
   third, a fourth, a fifth, and so on, cell population of interest.           As used herein, the terms "cell
   population", "cell preparation" and "cell prototype" are used interchangeably.
                In one aspect, the term "enriched" cell population as used herein refers to a cell population
25 derived from a starting kidney cell population (e.g., a cell suspension from a kidney biopsy or
   cultured mammalian kidney cells) that contains a percentage of cells capable of producing EPO that is
   greater than the percentage of cells capable of producing EPO in the starting population.                   For
   example, the term "B4" is a cell population derived from a starting kidney cell population that
   contains a greater percentage of EPO-producing cells, glomerular cells, and vascular cells as
30 compared to the starting population. The cell populations of the present invention may be enriched
   for one or more cell types and depleted of one or more other cell types. For example, an enriched
   EPO-producing cell population may be enriched for interstitial fibroblasts and depleted of tubular
   cells and collecting duct epithelial cells relative to the interstitial fibroblasts and tubular cells in a non
   enriched cell population, i.e. the starting cell population from which the enriched cell population is
35 derived. In all embodiments citing EPO-enriched or "B4" populations, the enriched cell populations
                                                             -7
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   are heterogeneous populations of cells containing cells that can produce EPO in an oxygen-regulated
   manner, as demonstrated by oxygen-tunable EPO expression from the endogenous native EPO gene.
                In another aspect, an enriched cell population, which contains a greater percentage of a
   specific cell type, e.g., vascular, glomerular, or endocrine cells, than the percentage of that cell type in
 5 the starting population, may also lack or be deficient in one or more specific cell types, e.g., vascular,
   glomerular, or endocrine cells, as compared to a starting kidney cell population derived from a
   healthy individual or subject. For example, the term "B4'       ," or B4 prime," in on1 aspect, is a cell
   population derived from a starting kidney cell population that lacks or is deficient in one or more cell
   types, e.g., vascular, glomerular or endocrine, depending on the disease state of the starting specimen,
10 as compared to a healthy individual. In one embodiment, the B4' cell population is derived from a
   subject having chronic kidney disease. In one embodiment, the B4' cell population is derived from a
   subject having focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). In another embodiment, the B4' cell
   population is derived from a subject having autoimmune glomerulonephritis. In another aspect, B4'
   is a cell population derived from a starting cell population including all cell types, e.g., vascular,
15 glomerular, or endocrine cells, which is later depleted of or made deficient in one or more cell types,
   e.g., vascular, glomerular, or endocrine cells. In yet another aspect, B4' i a cell population derived
   from a starting cell population including all cell types, e.g., vascular, glomerular, or endocrine cells,
   in which one or more specific cell types e.g., vascular, glomerular, or endocrine cells, is later
   enriched. For example, in one embodiment, a B4' ceI population may be enriched for vascular cells
20 but depleted of glomerular and/or endocrine cells. In another embodiment, a B4' cell population may
   be enriched for glomerular cells but depleted of vascular and/or endocrine cells. In another
   embodiment, a B4' cell population may be enrichedfor endocrine cells but depleted of vascular
   and/or glomerular cells. In another embodiment, a B4' cell population may be enriched for vascular
   and endocrine cells but depleted of glomerular cells. In preferred embodiments, the B4' cell
25 population, alone or admixed with another enriched cell population, e.g., B2 and/or B3, retains
   therapeutic properties. A B4' cell population, foxxample, is described herein in the Examples, e.g.,
   Examples 7-9.
                In another aspect, an enriched cell population may also refer to a cell population derived from
   a starting kidney cell population as discussed above that contains a percentage of cells expressing one
30 or more tubular cell markers that is greater than the percentage of cells expressing one or more tubular
   cell markers in the starting population. For example, the term "B2" refers to a cell population derived
   from a starting kidney cell population that contains a greater percentage of tubular cells as compared
   to the starting population. In addition, a cell population enriched for cells that express one or more
   tubular cell markers (or "B2") may contain some epithelial cells from the collecting duct system.
35 Although the cell population enriched for cells that express one or more tubular cell markers (or
   "B2") is relatively depleted of EPO-producing cells, glomerular cells, and vascular cells, the enriched
                                                          -8
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   population may contain a smaller percentage of these cells (EPO-producing, glomerular, and vascular)
   in comparison to the starting population. In general, a heterogeneous cell population is depleted of
   one or more cell types such that the depleted cell population contains a lesser proportion of the cell
   type(s) relative to the proportion of the cell type(s) contained in the heterogeneous cell population
 5 prior to depletion. The cell types that may be depleted are any type of kidney cell. For example, in
   certain embodiments, the cell types that may be depleted include cells with large granularity of the
   collecting duct and tubular system having a density of < about 1.045 g/ml, referred to as "Bl". In
   certain other embodiments, the cell types that may be depleted include debris and small cells of low
   granularity and viabilty having a density of > about 1.095 g/ml, referred to as "B5". In some
10 embodiments, the cell population enriched for tubular cells is relatively depleted of all of the
   following: "B 1", "B5", oxygen-tunable EPO-expressing cells, glomerular cells, and vascular cells.
                The term "hypoxic" culture conditions as used herein refers to culture conditions in which
   cells are subjected to a reduction in available oxygen levels in the culture system relative to standard
   culture conditions in which cells are cultured at atmospheric oxygen levels (about 21%).              Non
15 hypoxic conditions are referred to herein as normal or normoxic culture conditions.
                The term "oxygen-tunable" as used herein refers to the ability of cells to modulate gene
   expression (up or down) based on the amount of oxygen available to the cells. "Hypoxia-inducible"
   refers to the upregulation of gene expression in response to a reduction in oxygen tension (regardless
   of the pre-induction or starting oxygen tension).
20              The term "biomaterial" as used here refers to a natural or synthetic biocompatible material
   that is suitable for introduction into living tissue. A natural biomaterial is a material that is made by a
   living system. Synthetic biomaterials are materials which are not made by a living system. The
   biomaterials disclosed herein may be a combination of natural and synthetic biocompatible materials.
   As used herein, biomaterials include, for example, polymeric matrices and scaffolds.              Those of
25 ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the biomaterial(s) may be configured in various forms, for
   example, as liquid hydrogel suspensions, porous foam, and may comprise one or more natural or
   synthetic biocompatible materials.
                The term "anemia" as used herein refers to a deficit in red blood cell number and/or
   hemoglobin levels due to inadequate production of functional EPO protein by the EPO-producing
30 cells of a subject, and/or inadequate release of EPO protein into systemic circulation, and/or the
   inability of erythroblasts in the bone marrow to respond to EPO protein. A subject with anemia is
   unable to maintain erythroid homeostasis.        In general, anemia can occur with a decline or loss of
   kidney function (e.g., chronic renal failure), anemia associated with relative EPO deficiency, anemia
   associated with congestive heart failure, anemia associated with myelo-suppressive therapy such as
35 chemotherapy or anti-viral therapy (e.g., AZT), anemia associated with non-myeloid cancers, anemia
                                                         -9
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   associated with viral infections such as HIV, and anemia of chronic diseases such as autoimmune
   diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis), liver disease, and multi-organ system failure.
                The term "EPO-deficiency" refers to any condition or disorder that is treatable with an
   erythropoietin receptor agonist (e.g., recombinant EPO or EPO analogs), including anemia.
 5              The term "kidney disease" as used herein refers to disorders associated with any stage or
   degree of acute or chronic renal failure that results in a loss of the kidney' s ability to perform the
   function of blood filtration and elimination of excess fluid, electrolytes, and wastes from the blood.
   Kidney disease also includes endocrine dysfunctions such as anemia (erythropoietin-deficiency), and
   mineral imbalance (Vitamin D deficiency). Kidney disease may originate in the kidney or may be
10 secondary to a variety of conditions, including (but not limited to) heart failure, hypertension,
   diabetes, autoimmune disease, or liver disease. Kidney disease may be a condition of chronic renal
   failure that develops after an acute injury to the kidney.          For example, injury to the kidney by
   ischemia and/or exposure to toxicants may cause acute renal failure; incomplete recovery after acute
   kidney injury may lead to the development of chronic renal failure.
15              The term "treatment" refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative
   measures for kidney disease, anemia, EPO deficiency, tubular transport deficiency, or glomerular
   filtration deficiency wherein the object is to reverse, prevent or slow down (lessen) the targeted
   disorder. Those in need of treatment include those already having a kidney disease, anemia, EPO
   deficiency, tubular transport deficiency, or glomerular filtration deficiency as well as those prone to
20 having a kidney disease, anemia, EPO deficiency, tubular transport deficiency, or glomerular filtration
   deficiency or those in whom the kidney disease, anemia, EPO deficiency, tubular transport deficiency,
   or glomerular filtration deficiency is to be prevented. The term "treatment" as used herein includes
   the stabilization and/or improvement of kidney function.
                The term "in vivo contacting" as used herein refers to direct contact in vivo between products
25 secreted by an enriched population of renal cells (or an admixture or construct containing renal
   cells/renal cell fractions) and a native kidney. The direct in vivo contacting may be paracrine,
   endocrine, or juxtacrine in nature. The products secreted may be a heterogeneous population of
   different products described herein.
                The term "ribonucleic acid" or "RNA" as used herein refers to a chain of nucleotide units
30 where each unit is made up of a nitrogenous base, a ribose sugar, and a phosphate. The RNA may be
   in single or double standed form. The RNA may be part of, within, or associated with a vesicle. The
   vesicle may be an exosome. RNA includes, without limitation, mRNAs, rRNA, small RNAs,
   snRNAs, snoRNAs, microRNAs (miRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), and noncoding RNAs.
   The RNA is preferably human RNA.
35              The term "construct" refers to one or more cell populations deposited on or in a surface of a
   scaffold or matrix made up of one or more synthetic or naturally-occurring biocompatible materials.
                                                        -10
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   The one or more cell populations may be coated with, deposited on, embedded in, attached to, seeded,
   or entrapped in a biomaterial made up of one or more synthetic or naturally-occurring biocompatible
   polymers, proteins, or peptides.              The one or more cell populations may be combined with a
   biomaterial or scaffold or matrix in vitro or in vivo. In general, the one or more biocompatible
 5 materials used to form the scaffold/biomaterial is selected to direct, facilitate, or permit the formation
   of multicellular, three-dimensional, organization of at least one of the cell populations deposited
   thereon. The one or more biomaterials used to generate the construct may also be selected to direct,
   facilitate, or permit dispersion and/or integration of the construct or cellular components of the
   construct with the endogenous host tissue, or to direct, facilitate, or permit the survival, engraftment,
10 tolerance, or functional performance of the construct or cellular components of the construct.
                The term "marker" or "biomarker" refers generally to a DNA, RNA, protein, carbohydrate, or
   glycolipid-based molecular marker, the expression or presence of which in a cultured cell population
   can be detected by standard methods (or methods disclosed herein) and is consistent with one or more
   cells in the cultured cell population being a particular type of cell. The marker may be a polypeptide
15 expressed by the cell or an identifiable physical location on a chromosome, such as a gene, a
   restriction endonuclease recognition site or a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide (e.g., an mRNA)
   expressed by the native cell. The marker may be an expressed region of a gene referred to as a "gene
   expression marker", or some segment of DNA with no known coding function. The biomarkers may
   be cell-derived, e.g., secreted, products.
20              The terms "differentially expressed gene," "differential gene expression" and their synonyms,
   which are used interchangeably, refer to a gene whose expression is activated to a higher or lower
   level in a first cell or cell population, relative to its expression in a second cell or cell population. The
   terms also include genes whose expression is activated to a higher or lower level at different stages
   over time during passage of the first or second cell in culture.               It is also understood that a
25 differentially expressed gene may be either activated or inhibited at the nucleic acid level or protein
   level, or may be subject to alternative splicing to result in a different polypeptide product. Such
   differences may be evidenced by a change in mRNA levels, surface expression, secretion or other
   partitioning of a polypeptide, for example. Differential gene expression may include a comparison of
   expression between two or more genes or their gene products, or a comparison of the ratios of the
30 expression between two or more genes or their gene products, or even a comparison of two differently
   processed products of the same gene, which differ between the first cell and the second cell.
   Differential expression includes both quantitative, as well as qualitative, differences in the temporal or
   cellular expression pattern in a gene or its expression products among, for example, the first cell and
   the second cell. For the purpose of this invention, "differential gene expression" is considered to be
35 present when there is a difference between the expression of a given gene in the first cell and the
   second cell.              The differential expression of a marker may be in cells from a patient before
                                                            -11
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   administration of a cell population, admixture, or construct (the first cell) relative to expression in
   cells from the patient after administration (the second cell).
                The terms "inhibit", "down-regulate", "under-express" and "reduce" are used interchangeably
   and mean that the expression of a gene, or level of RNA molecules or equivalent RNA molecules
 5 encoding one or more proteins or protein subunits, or activity of one or more proteins or protein
   subunits, is reduced relative to one or more controls, such as, for example, one or more positive
   and/or negative controls. The under-expression may be in cells from a patient before administration
   of a cell population, admixture, or construct relative to cells from the patient after administration.
                The term "up-regulate" or "over-express" is used to mean that the expression of a gene, or
10 level of RNA molecules or equivalent RNA molecules encoding one or more proteins or protein
   subunits, or activity of one or more proteins or protein subunits, is elevated relative to one or more
   controls, such as, for example, one or more positive and/or negative controls. The over-expression
   may be in cells from a patient after administration of a cell population, admixture, or construct
   relative to cells from the patient before administration.
15              The term "subject" shall mean any single human subject, including a patient, eligible for
   treatment, who is experiencing or has experienced one or more signs, symptoms, or other indicators
   of a kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency. Such subjects include without limitation subjects
   who are newly diagnosed or previously diagnosed and are now experiencing a recurrence or relapse,
   or are at risk for a kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency, no matter the cause. The subject may
20 have been previously treated for a kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency, or not so treated.
                The term "patient" refers to any single animal, more preferably a mammal (including such
   non-human animals as, for example, dogs, cats, horses, rabbits, zoo animals, cows, pigs, sheep, and
   non-human primates) for which treatment is desired. Most preferably, the patient herein is a human.
                The term "sample" or "patient sample" or "biological sample" shall generally mean any
25 biological sample obtained from a subject or patient, body fluid, body tissue, cell line, tissue culture,
   or other source. The term includes tissue biopsies such as, for example, kidney biopsies. The term
   includes cultured cells such as, for example, cultured mammalian kidney cells. Methods for obtaining
   tissue biopsies and cultured cells from mammals are well known in the art. If the term "sample" is
   used alone, it shall still mean that the "sample" is a "biological sample" or "patient sample", i.e., the
30 terms are used interchangeably.
                The term "test sample" refers to a sample from a subject that has been treated by a method of
   the present invention. The test sample may originate from various sources in the mammalian subject
   including, without limitation, blood, semen, serum, urine, bone marrow, mucosa, tissue, etc.
                The term "control" or "control sample" refers a negative or positive control in which a
35 negative or positive result is expected to help correlate a result in the test sample. Controls that are
   suitable for the present invention include, without limitation, a sample known to exhibit indicators
                                                        -12
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   characteristic of normal erythroid homeostasis, a sample known to exhibit indicators characteristic of
   anemia, a sample obtained from a subject known not to be anemic, and a sample obtained from a
   subject known to be anemic. Additional controls suitable for use in the methods of the present
   invention include, without limitation, samples derived from subjects that have been treated with
 5 pharmacological agents known to modulate erythropoiesis (e.g., recombinant EPO or EPO analogs).
   In addition, the control may be a sample obtained from a subject prior to being treated by a method of
   the present invention. An additional suitable control may be a test sample obtained from a subject
   known to have any type or stage of kidney disease, and a sample from a subject known not to have
   any type or stage of kidney disease. A control may be a normal healthy matched control. Those of
10 skill in the art will appreciate other controls suitable for use in the present invention.
                "Regeneration prognosis", "regenerative prognosis", or "prognostic for regeneration"
   generally refers to a forecast or prediction of the probable regenerative course or outcome of the
   administration or implantation of a cell population, admixture or construct described herein. For a
   regeneration prognosis, the forecast or prediction may be informed by one or more of the following:
15 improvement of a functional kidney after implantation or administration, development of a functional
   kidney after implantation or administration, development of improved kidney function or capacity
   after implantation or administration, and expression of certain markers by the native kidney following
   implantation or administration.
                "Regenerated kidney" refers to a native kidney after implantation or administration of a cell
20 population, admixture, or construct as described herein. The regenerated kidney is characterized by
   various indicators including, without limitation, development of function or capacity in the native
   kidney, improvement of function or capacity in the native kidney, and the expression of certain
   markers in the native kidney. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other indicators
   may be suitable for characterizing a regenerated kidney.
25
   Cell populations
                Isolated, heterogeneous populations of kidney cells, and admixtures thereof, enriched for
   specific bioactive components or cell types and/or depleted of specific inactive or undesired
   components or cell types for use in the treatment of kidney disease, i.e., providing stabilization and/or
30 improvement and/or regeneration of kidney function, were previously described in U.S. Application
   No. 12/617,721 filed November 12, 2009, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by
   reference. The present invention provides isolated renal cell fractions that lack cellular components
   as compared to a healthy individual yet retain therapeutic properties, i.e., provide stabilization and/or
   improvement and/or regeneration of kidney function. The cell populations, cell fractions, and/or
35 admixtures of cells described herein may be derived from healthy individuals, individuals with a
   kidney disease, or subjects as described herein.
                                                        -13
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Bioactive cell populations
                In one aspect, the present invention is based on the surprising finding that certain subfractions
   of a heterogeneous population of renal cells, enriched for bioactive components and depleted of
 5 inactive or undesired components, provide superior therapeutic and regenerative outcomes than the
   starting population. For example, bioactive components of the invention, e.g., B2, B4, and B3, which
   are depleted of inactive or undesired components, e.g., B1 and B5, alone or admixed, provide
   unexpected stabilization and/or improvement and/or regeneration of kidney function.
                In another aspect, the present invention is based on the surprising finding that a specific
10 subfraction, B4, depleted of or deficient in one or more cell types, e.g., vascular, endocrine, or
   endothelial, i.e., B4' , retains therapeutic properties, e.g., stabilization and/or improvement and/or
   regeneration of kidney function, alone or when admixed with other bioactive subfractions, e.g., B2
   and/or B3. In a preferred embodiment, the bioactive cell population is B2. In certain embodiments,
   the B2 cell population is admixed with B4 or B4' . In other embodiments, the B2 cell population is
15 admixed with B3. In other embodiments, the B2 cell population is admixed with both B3 and B4, or
   specific cellular components of B3 and/or B4.
                The B2 cell population is characterized by expression of a tubular cell marker selected from
   the group consisting of one or more of the following: megalin, cubilin, hyaluronic acid synthase 2
   (HAS2),          Vitamin          D3 25-Hydroxylase (CYP2D25),   N-cadherin    (Ncad),   E-cadherin    (Ecad),
20 Aquaporin-1 (Aqpl), Aquaporin-2 (Aqp2), RAB17, member RAS oncogene family (Rabl7), GATA
   binding protein 3 (Gata3), FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 4 (Fxyd4), solute carrier
   family 9 (sodium/hydrogen exchanger), member 4 (Slc9a4), aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family,
   member BI (Aldh3bl), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A3 (Aldhla3), and Calpain-8
   (Capn8), and collecting duct marker Aquaporin-4 (Aqp4). B2 is larger and more granulated than B3
25 and/or B4 and thus having a buoyant density between about 1.045 g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml (rodent),
   between about 1.045 g/ml and 1.052 g/ml (human), and between about 1.045 g/ml and about 1.058
   g/ml (canine).
                The B3 cell population is characterized by the expression of vascular, glomerular and
   proximal tubular markers with some EPO-producing cells, being of an intermediate size and
30 granularity in comparison to B2 and B4, and thus having a buoyant density between about 1.063 g/ml
   and about 1.073 g/ml (rodent), between about 1.052 g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml (human), and between
   about 1.058 g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml (canine).             B3 is characterized by expression of markers
   selected from the group consisting of one or more of the following: aquaporin 7 (Aqp7), FXYD
   domain-containing ion transport regulator 2 (Fxyd2), solute carrier family 17 (sodium phosphate),
35 member 3 (Slc17a3), solute carrier family 3, member 1 (Slc3al), claudin 2 (Cldn2), napsin A aspartic
   peptidase (Napsa), solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter), member 2 (Slc2a2), alanyl
                                                          -14
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   (membrane) aminopeptidase (Anpep), transmembrane protein 27 (Tmem27), acyl-CoA synthetase
   medium-chain                family      member 2      (Acsm2),   glutathione  peroxidase   3  (Gpx3),    fructose-1,6
   biphosphatase 1 (Fbpl), and alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase 2 (Agxt2). B3 is also characterized
   by the vascular expression marker Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule (Pecam) and the
 5 glomerular expression marker podocin (Podn).
                The B4 cell population is characterized by the expression of a vascular marker set containing
   one or more of the following: PECAM, VEGF, KDR, HIF la, CD3 1, CD 146; a glomerular marker set
   containing one or more of the following: Podocin (Podn), and Nephrin (Neph); and an oxygen
   tunable EPO enriched population compared to unfractionated (UNFX), B2 and B3.                              B4 is also
10 characterized by the expression of one or more of the following markers: chemokine (C-X-C motif)
   receptor 4 (Cxcr4), endothelin receptor type B (Ednrb), collagen, type V, alpha 2 (Col5a2), Cadherin
   5 (Cdh5), plasminogen activator, tissue (Plat), angiopoietin 2 (Angpt2), kinase insert domain protein
   receptor (Kdr), secreted protein, acidic, cysteine-rich (osteonectin) (Sparc), serglycin (Srgn), TIMP
   metallopeptidase inhibitor 3 (Timp3), Wilms tumor 1 (Wtl), wingless-type MMTV integration site
15 family, member 4 (Wnt4), regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (Rgs4), Platelet endothelial cell adhesion
   molecule (Pecam), and Erythropoietin (Epo).                    B4 is also characterized by smaller, less granulated
   cells compared to either B2 or B3, with a buoyant density                      between about 1.073 g/ml and about
    1.091g/ml (rodent), between about 1.063 g/ml and about 1.091 g/mL (human and canine).
                The B4'           cell population is defined as having a buoyant density of between 1.063 g/mL and
20  1.091 g/mL and expressing one or more of the following markers: PECAM, vEGF, KDR, HIFla,
   podocin, nephrin, EPO, CK7, CK8/18/19.                          In one embodiment, the B4'        cell population is
   characterized by the expression of a vascular marker set containing one or more of the following:
   PECAM, vEGF, KDR, HIFla, CD31, CD146. In another embodiment, the B4'                                cell population is
   characterized by the expression of an endocrine marker EPO.                       In one embodiment, the B4'       cell
25 population is characterized by the expression of a glomerular marker set containing one or more of the
   following: Podocin (Podn), and Nephrin (Neph). In certain embodiments, the B4'                      cell population is
   characterized by the expression of a vascular marker set containing one or more of the following:
   PECAM, vEGF, KDR, HIFla and by the expression of an endocrine marker EPO.                                  In another
   embodiment, B4'                  is also characterized by smaller, ess granulated cells compared to either B2 or B3,
30 with a buoyant density between about 1.073 g/ml and about 1.091g/ml (rodent), between about 1.063
   g/ml and about 1.091 g/mL (human and canine).
                In one aspect, the present invention provides an isolated, enriched B4' population of human
   renal cells comprising at least one of erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells, vascular cells, and
   glomerular cells having a density between 1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL. In one embodiment, the B4'
35 cell population is characterized by expression of a vascular marker. In certain embodiments, the B4'
                                                                  -15
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   cell population is not characterized by expression of a glomerular marker. In some embodiments, the
   B4' cell population is capable of oxygentunable erythropoietin (EPO) expression.
                In one embodiment, the B4' cell population does notinclude a B2 cell population comprising
   tubular cells having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL. In another embodiment, the B4'
 5 cell population does not include a B 1 cell population comprising large granular cells of the collecting
   duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml. In yet another embodiment, the B4' cell
   population does not include a B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity
   and viability with a density > 1.091 g/ml.
                In one embodiment, the B4' cell pqoulation does not include a B2 cell population comprising
10 tubular cells having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL; a BI cell population comprising
   large granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml; and a
   B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity and viability with a density >
    1.091 g/ml. In some embodiments, the B4'            cell population may bederived from a subject having
   kidney disease.
15              In one aspect, the present invention provides an admixture of human renal cells comprising a
   first cell population, B2, comprising an isolated, enriched population of tubular cells having a density
   between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL, and a second cell population, B4' , comprising erythropoietin
   (EPO)-producing cells and vascular cells but depleted of glomerular cells having a density between
   about 1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL, wherein the admixture does not include a B1 cell population
20 comprising large granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045
   g/ml, or a B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity and viability with a
   density > 1.091 g/ml. In certain embodiment, the B4' cell population is characterized by expression of
   a vascular marker. In one embodiment, the B4' cell populationis not characterized by expression of a
   glomerular marker. In certain embodiments, B2 further comprises collecting duct epithelial cells. In
25 one embodiment, the admixture of cells is capable of receptor-mediated albumin uptake. In another
   embodiment, the admixture of cells is capable of oxygen-tunable erythropoietin (EPO) expression. In
   one embodiment, the admixture contains HAS-2-expressing cells capable of producing and/or
   stimulating the production of high-molecular weight species of hyaluronic acid (HA) both in vitro and
   in vivo. In all embodiments, the first and second cell populations may be derived from kidney tissue
30 or cultured kidney cells.
                In one embodiment, the admixture is capable of providing a regenerative stimulus upon in
   vivo delivery. In other embodiments, the admixture is capable of reducing the decline of, stabilizing,
   or improving glomerular filtration, tubular resorption, urine production, and/or endocrine function
   upon in vivo delivery. In one embodiment, the B4' cell population is derived from a subject having
35 kidney disease.
                                                         -16
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In one aspect, the present invention provides an isolated, enriched B4' population of human
   renal cells comprising at least one of erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells, vascular cells, and
   glomerular cells having a density between 1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL. In one embodiment, the B4'
   cell population is characterized by expression of a vascular marker. In certain embodiments, the B4'
 5 cell population is not characterized by expression of a glomerular marker. The glomerular marker
   that is not expressed may be podocin (see Example 7). In some embodiments, the B4' cell population
   is capable of oxygen-tunable erythropoietin (EPO) expression.
                In one embodiment, the B4' cell population does notinclude a B2 cell population comprising
   tubular cells having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL. In another embodiment, the B4'
10 cell population does not include a B 1 cell population comprising large granular cells of the collecting
   duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml. In yet another embodiment, the B4' cell
   population does not include a B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity
   and viability with a density > 1.091 g/ml.
                In one embodiment, the B4' cell population does notinclude a B2 cell population comprising
15 tubular cells having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL; a BI cell population comprising
   large granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml; and a
   B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity and viability with a density >
    1.091 g/ml.
   In some embodiments, the B4'         cell population may bederived from a subject having kidney disease.
20 In one aspect, the present invention provides an admixture of human renal cells comprising a first cell
   population, B2, comprising an isolated, enriched population of tubular cells having a density between
    1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL, and a second cell population, B4' , comprising erythropoietin (EPO)
   producing cells and vascular cells but depleted of glomerular cells having a density between about
    1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL, wherein the admixture does not include a BI cell population comprising
25 large granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml, or a B5
   cell population comprising debris and small cells of low granularity and viability with a density >
    1.091 g/ml. In certain embodiment, the B4'           cell population is characterized by expression of a
   vascular marker. In one embodiment, the B4'          cell population is not characterized by expression of a
   glomerular marker. In certain embodiments, B2 further comprises collecting duct epithelial cells. In
30 one embodiment, the admixture of cells is capable of receptor-mediated albumin uptake. In another
   embodiment, the admixture of cells is capable of oxygen-tunable erythropoietin (EPO) expression. In
   one embodiment, the admixture contains HAS-2-expressing cells capable of producing and/or
   stimulating the production of high-molecular weight species of hyaluronic acid (HA) both in vitro and
   in vivo. In all embodiments, the first and second cell populations may be derived from kidney tissue
35 or cultured kidney cells.
                                                         -17
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In one embodiment, the admixture is capable of providing a regenerative stimulus upon in
   vivo delivery. In other embodiments, the admixture is capable of reducing the decline of, stabilizing,
   or improving glomerular filtration, tubular resorption, urine production, and/or endocrine function
   upon in vivo delivery. In one embodiment, the B4' cell population is derived from a subject having
 5 kidney disease.
                In a preferred embodiment, the admixture comprises B2 in combination with B3 and/or B4.
   In another preferred embodiment, the admixture comprises B2 in combination with B3 and/or B4' . In
   other preferred embodiments, the admixture consists of or consists essentially of (i) B2 in
   combination with B3 and/or B4; or (ii) B2 in combination with B3 and/or B4' .
10              The admixtures that contain a B4' cell population may contain B2 and/or B3 cell populations
   that are also obtained from a non-healthy subject. The non-healthy subject may be the same subject
   from which the B4' fraction was obtained. In contest to the B4' cell population, the B2 and B3 cell
   populations obtained from non-healthy subjects are typically not deficient in one or more specific cell
   types as compared to a starting kidney cell population derived from a healthy individual.
15
                Hyaluronic acid production by B2 and B4
                Hyaluronan (also called hyaluronic acid or hyaluronate) is a glycosaminoglycan (GAG),
   which consists of a regular repeating sequence of non-sulfated disaccharide units, specifically N
   acetylglucosamine and glucuronic acid. Its molecular weight can range from 400 daltons (the
20 disaccharide) to over a million daltons. It is found in variable amounts in all tissues, such as the skin,
   cartilage, and eye, and in most if not all fluids in adult animals. It is especially abundant in early
   embryos. Space created by hyaluronan, and indeed GAGs in general, permit it to play a role in cell
   migration, cell attachment, during wound repair, organogenesis, immune cell adhesion, activation of
   intracellular signalling, as well as tumour metastasis. These roles are mediated by specific protein and
25 proteoglycan binding to Hyaluronan. Cell motility and immune cell adhesion is mediated by the cell
   surface receptor RHAMM (Receptor for Hyaluronan-Mediated Motility; Hardwick et al., 1992) and
   CD44 (Jalkenan et al., 1987; Miyake et al., 1990). Hyaluronan is synthesized directly at the inner
   membrane of the cell surface with the growing polymer extruded through the membrane to the outside
   of the cell as it is being synthesized. Synthesis is mediated by a single protein enzyme, hyaluronan
30 synthetase (HAS) whose gene family consists of at least 3 members.
                It has recently been shown that hyaluronic acid interacts with CD44, and such interactions
   may, among other actions, recruit non-resident cells (such as mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)) to
   injured renal tissue and enhance renal regeneration (Kidney International(2007) 72, 430-44 1).
                Unexpectedly, it has been found that the B2 and B4 cell preparations are capable of
35 expressing higher molecular weight species of hyaluronic acid (HA) both in vitro and in vivo, through
   the actions of hyaluronic acid synthase-2 (HAS-2) - a marker that is enriched more specifically in the
                                                        -18
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   B2 cell population. Treatment with B2 in a 5/6 Nx model was shown to reduce fibrosis, concomitant
   with strong expression HAS-2 expression in vivo and the expected production of high-molecular
   weight HA within the treated tissue. Notably, the 5/6 Nx model left untreated resulted in fibrosis with
   limited detection of HAS-2 and little production of high-molecular-weight HA. Without wishing to
 5 be bound by theory, it is hypothesized that this anti-inflammatory high-molecular weight species of
   HA produced predominantly by B2 (and to some degree by B4) acts synergystically with the cell
   preparations in the reduction of renal fibrosis and in the aid of renal regeneration. Accordingly, the
   instant invention includes delivery of the cellular prototypes of the invention in a biomaterial
   comprising hyaluronic acid. Also contemplated by the instant invention is the provision of a
10 biomaterial component of the regenerative stimulus via direct production or stimulation of production
   by the implanted cells.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides isolated, heterogeneous populations of EPO
   producing kidney cells for use in the treatment of kidney disease, anemia and/or EPO deficiency in a
   subject in need.                In one embodiment, the cell populations are derived from a kidney biopsy.  In
15 another embodiment, the cell populations are derived from whole kidney tissue.                  In one other
   embodiment, the cell populations are derived from in vitro cultures of mammalian kidney cells,
   established from kidney biopsies or whole kidney tissue. In all embodiments, these populations are
   unfractionated cell populations, also referred to herein as non-enriched cell populations.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides isolated populations of erythropoietin
20 (EPO)-producing kidney cells that are further enriched such that the proportion of EPO-producing
   cells in the enriched subpopulation is greater relative to the proportion of EPO-producing cells in the
   starting or initial cell population.            In one embodiment, the enriched EPO-producing cell fraction
   contains a greater proportion of interstitial fibroblasts and a lesser proportion of tubular cells relative
   to the interstitial fibroblasts and tubular cells contained in the unenriched initial population. In certain
25 embodiments, the enriched EPO-producing cell fraction contains a greater proportion of glomerular
   cells and vascular cells and a lesser proportion of collecting duct cells relative to the glomerular cells,
   vascular cells and collecting duct cells contained in the unenriched initial population.              In such
   embodiments, these populations are referred to herein as the "B4" cell population.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides an EPO-producing kidney cell population
30 that is admixed with one or more additional kidney cell populations. In one embodiment, the EPO
   producing cell population is a first cell population enriched for EPO-producing cells, e.g., B4.            In
   another embodiment, the EPO-producing cell population is a first cell population that is not enriched
   for EPO-producing cells, e.g., B2. In another embodiment, the first cell population is admixed with a
   second kidney cell population.               In some embodiments, the second cell population is enriched for
35 tubular cells, which may be demonstrated by the presence of a tubular cell phenotype. In another
   embodiment, the tubular cell phenotype may be indicated by the presence of one tubular cell marker.
                                                               -19
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   In another embodiment, the tubular cell phenotype may be indicated by the presence of one or more
   tubular cell markers.             The tubular cell markers include, without limitation, megalin, cubilin,
   hyaluronic acid synthase 2 (HAS2), Vitamin D3 25-Hydroxylase (CYP2D25), N-cadherin (Ncad), E
   cadherin (Ecad), Aquaporin-1 (Aqpl), Aquaporin-2 (Aqp2), RAB17, member RAS oncogene family
 5 (Rab17), GATA binding protein 3 (Gata3), FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 4
   (Fxyd4), solute carrier family 9 (sodium/hydrogen exchanger), member 4 (Slc9a4), aldehyde
   dehydrogenase 3 family, member BI (Aldh3bl), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A3
   (Aldhla3), and Calpain-8 (Capn8). In another embodiment, the first cell population is admixed with
   at least one of several types of kidney cells including, without limitation, interstitium-derived cells,
10 tubular cells, collecting duct-derived cells, glomerulus-derived cells, and/or cells derived from the
   blood or vasculature. The EPO-producing kidney cell population may contain B4 or B4' in the form
   of an admixture with B2 and/or B3, or in the form of an enriched cell population, e.g.,
   B2+B3+B4/B4' .
                In one aspect, the EPO-producing kidney cell populations of the present invention are
15 characterized by EPO expression and bioresponsiveness to oxygen, such that a reduction in the
   oxygen tension of the culture system results in an induction in the expression of EPO. In one
   embodiment, the EPO-producing cell populations are enriched for EPO-producing cells.              In one
   embodiment, the EPO expression is induced when the cell population is cultured under conditions
   where the cells are subjected to a reduction in available oxygen levels in the culture system as
20 compared to a cell population cultured at normal atmospheric (-21%) levels of available oxygen. In
   one embodiment, EPO-producing cells cultured in lower oxygen conditions express greater levels of
   EPO relative to EPO-producing cells cultured at normal oxygen conditions. In general, the culturing
   of cells at reduced levels of available oxygen (also referred to as hypoxic culture conditions) means
   that the level of reduced oxygen is reduced relative to the culturing of cells at normal atmospheric
25 levels of available oxygen (also referred to as normal or normoxic culture conditions).           In one
   embodiment, hypoxic cell culture conditions include culturing cells at about less than 1% oxygen,
   about less than 2% oxygen, about less than 3% oxygen, about less than 4% oxygen, or about less than
   5% oxygen. In another embodiment, normal or normoxic culture conditions include culturing cells at
   about 10% oxygen, about 12% oxygen, about 13% oxygen, about 14% oxygen, about 15% oxygen,
30 about 16% oxygen, about 17% oxygen, about 18% oxygen, about 19% oxygen, about 20% oxygen, or
   about 21 % oxygen.
                In one other embodiment, the induction or increased expression of EPO is obtained and can
   be observed by culturing cells at about less than 5% available oxygen and comparing EPO expression
   levels to cells cultured at atmospheric (about 21%) oxygen. In another embodiment, the induction of
35 EPO is obtained in a culture of cells capable of expressing EPO by a method that includes a first
   culture phase in which the culture of cells is cultivated at atmospheric oxygen (about 21%) for some
                                                          -20
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   period of time and a second culture phase in which the available oxygen levels are reduced and the
   same cells are cultured at about less than 5% available oxygen. In another embodiment, the EPO
   expression that is responsive to hypoxic conditions is regulated by HIF 1a Those of ordinary skill in
   the art will appreciate that other oxygen manipulation culture conditions known in the art may be used
 5 for the cells described herein.
                In one aspect, the enriched populations of EPO-producing mammalian cells are characterized
   by bio-responsiveness (e.g., EPO expression) to perfusion conditions.                  In one embodiment, the
   perfusion conditions include transient, intermittent, or continuous fluid flow (perfusion). In one
   embodiment, the EPO expression is mechanically-induced when the media in which the cells are
10 cultured is intermittently or continuously circulated or agitated in such a manner that dynamic forces
   are transferred to the cells via the flow. In one embodiment, the cells subjected to the transient,
   intermittent, or continuous fluid flow are cultured in such a manner that they are present as three
   dimensional structures in or on a material that provides framework and/or space for such three
   dimensional structures to form. In one embodiment, the cells are cultured on porous beads and
15 subjected to intermittent or continuous fluid flow by means of a rocking platform, orbiting platform,
   or spinner flask. In another embodiment, the cells are cultured on three-dimensional scaffolding and
   placed into a device whereby the scaffold is stationary and fluid flows directionally through or across
   the scaffolding.                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other perfusion culture
   conditions known in the art may be used for the cells described herein.
20              Inactive cell populations
                As described herein, the present invention is based, in part, on the surprising finding that
   certain subfractions of a heterogeneous population of renal cells, enriched for bioactive components
   and depleted of inactive or undesired components, provide superior therapeutic and regenerative
   outcomes than the starting population. In preferred embodiments, the cellular populations of the
25 instant invention are depleted of B 1 and/or B5 cell populations. For instance, the following may be
   depleted of B1 and/or B5: admixtures of two or more of B2, B3, and B4' ; an enriched cell population
   of B2, B3, and B4' .
                The B 1 cell population comprises large, granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular
   system, with the cells of the population having a buoyant density less than about 1.045 g/m. The B5
30 cell population is comprised of debris and small cells of low granularity and viability and having a
   buoyant density greater than about 1.091 g/ml.
   Methods of isolating and culturin2 cell populations
                The present invention, in one aspect, provides methods for separating and isolating renal
35 cellular components, e.g., enriched cell populations, for therapeutic use, including the treatment of
   kidney disease, anemia, EPO deficiency, tubular transport deficiency, and glomerular filtration
                                                               -21
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   deficiency.             In one embodiment, the cell populations are isolated from freshly digested, i.e.,
   mechanically or enzymatically digested, kidney tissue or from heterogeneous in vitro cultures of
   mammalian kidney cells.
                It has unexpectedly been discovered that culturing heterogeneous mixtures of renal cells in
 5 hypoxic culture conditions prior to separation on a density gradient provides for enhanced distribution
   and composition of cells in both B4, including B4' , and B2and/or B3 fractions. The enrichment of
   oxygen-dependent cells in B4 from B2 was observed for renal cells isolated from both diseased and
   non-diseased kidneys. Without wishing to be bound by theory, this may be due to one or more of the
   following phenomena:              1) selective survival, death, or proliferation of specific cellular components
10 during the hypoxic culture period; 2) alterations in cell granularity and/or size in response to the
   hypoxic culture, thereby effecting alterations in buoyant density and subsequent localization during
   density gradient separation; and 3) alterations in cell gene / protein expression in response to the
   hypoxic culture period, thereby resulting in differential characteristics of the cells within any given
   fraction of the gradient. Thus, in one embodiment, the cell populations enriched for tubular cells, e.g.,
15 B2, are hypoxia-resistant.
                Exemplary techniques for separating and isolating the cell populations of the invention
   include separation on a density gradient based on the differential specific gravity of different cell
   types contained within the population of interest. The specific gravity of any given cell type can be
   influenced by the degree of granularity within the cells, the intracellular volume of water, and other
20 factors. In one aspect, the present invention provides optimal gradient conditions for isolation of the
   cell preparations of the instant invention, e.g., B2 and B4, including B4' , across multiple species
   including, but not limited to, human, canine, and rodent. In a preferred embodiment, a density
   gradient is used to obtain a novel enriched population of tubular cells fraction, i.e., B2 cell population,
   derived from a heterogeneous population of renal cells. In one embodiment, a density gradient is
25 used to obtain a novel enriched population of EPO-producing cells fraction, i.e., B4 cell population,
   derived from a heterogeneous population of renal cells. In other embodiments, a density gradient is
   used to obtain enriched subpopulations of tubular cells, glomerular cells, and endothelial cells of the
   kidney. In one embodiment, both the EPO-producing and the tubular cells are separated from the red
   blood cells and cellular debris. In one embodiment, the EPO-producing, glomerular, and vascular
30 cells are separated from other cell types and from red blood cells and cellular debris, while a
   subpopulation of tubular cells and collecting duct cells are concomitantly separated from other cell
   types and from red blood cells and cellular debris.                 In one other embodiment, the endocrine,
   glomerular, and/or vascular cells are separated from other cell types and from red blood cells and
   cellular debris, while a subpopulation of tubular cells and collecting duct cells are concomitantly
35 separated from other cell types and from red blood cells and cellular debris.
                                                              -22
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                The instant invention generated the novel cell populations by using, in part, the OPTIPREP@
   (Axis-Shield) density gradient medium, comprising 60% nonionic iodinated compound iodixanol in
   water, based on certain key features described below. One of skill in the art, however, will recognize
   that any density gradient or other means, e.g., immunological separation using cell surface markers
 5 known in the art, comprising necessary features for isolating the cell populations of the instant
   invention may be used in accordance with the invention. It should also be recognized by one skilled
   in the art that the same cellular features that contribute to separation of cellular subpopulations via
   density gradients (size and granularity) can be exploited to separate cellular subpopulations via flow
   cytometry (forward scatter = a reflection of size via flow cytometry, and side scatter = a reflection of
10 granularity). Importantly, the density gradient medium should have low toxicity towards the specific
   cells of interest. While the density gradient medium should have low toxicity toward the specific
   cells of interest, the instant invention contemplates the use of gradient mediums which play a role in
   the selection process of the cells of interest. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it appears that
   the cell populations of the instant invention recovered by the gradient comprising iodixanol are
15 iodixanol-resistant, as there is an appreciable loss of cells between the loading and recovery steps,
   suggesting that exposure to iodixanol under the conditions of the gradient leads to elimination of
   certain cells. The cells appearing in the specific bands after the iodixanol gradient are resistant to any
   untoward effects of iodixanol and/or density gradient exposure. Accordingly, the present invention
   also contemplates the use of additional contrast medias which are mild to moderate nephrotoxins in
20 the isolation and/or selection of the cell populations of the instant invention. In addition, the density
   gradient medium should also not bind to proteins in human plasma or adversely affect key functions
   of the cells of interest.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of enriching and/or depleting
   kidney cell types using fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).        In one embodiment, kidney cell
25 types may be enriched and/or depleted using BD FACSAriaTM or equivalent.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of enriching and/or depleting
   kidney cell types using magnetic cell sorting. In one embodiment, kidney cell types may be enriched
   and/or depleted using the Miltenyi autoMACS@ system or equivalent.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of three-dimensional culturing of
30 the renal cell populations. In one aspect, the present invention provides methods of culturing the cell
   populations via continuous perfusion. In one embodiment, the cell populations cultured via three
   dimensional culturing and continuous perfusion demonstrate greater cellularity and interconnectivity
   when compared to cell populations cultured statically. In another embodiment, the cell populations
   cultured via three dimensional culturing and continuous perfusion demonstrate greater expression of
35 EPO, as well as enhanced expression of renal tubule-associate genes such as e-cadherin when
   compared to static cultures of such cell populations.
                                                        -23
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In yet another embodiment, the cell populations                   cultured via continuous perfusion
   demonstrate greater levels of glucose and glutamine consumption when compared to cell populations
   cultured statically.
                As described herein (including Example 3), low or hypoxic oxygen conditions may be used in
 5 the methods to prepare the cell populations of the present invention. However, the methods of the
   present invention may be used without the step of low oxygen conditioning.                      In one embodiment,
   normoxic conditions may be used.
                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other methods of isolation and culturing
   known in the art may be used for the cells described herein.
10              Biomaterials (Polymeric matrices or scaffolds)
                As described in Bertram et al. U.S. Published Application 20070276507 (incorporated herein
   by reference in its entirety), polymeric matrices or scaffolds may be shaped into any number of
   desirable configurations to satisfy any number of overall system, geometry or space restrictions. In
   one embodiment, the matrices or scaffolds of the present invention may be three-dimensional and
15 shaped to conform to the dimensions and shapes of an organ or tissue structure. For example, in the
   use of the polymeric scaffold for treating kidney disease, anemia, EPO deficiency, tubular transport
   deficiency, or glomerular filtration deficiency, a three-dimensional (3-D) matrix may be used. A
   variety of differently shaped 3-D scaffolds may be used. Naturally, the polymeric matrix may be
   shaped in different sizes and shapes to conform to differently sized patients. The polymeric matrix
20 may also be shaped in other ways to accommodate the special needs of the patient. In another
   embodiment, the polymeric matrix or scaffold may be a biocompatible, porous polymeric scaffold.
   The scaffolds may be formed from a variety of synthetic or naturally-occurring materials including,
   but not limited to, open-cell polylactic acid (OPLA@), cellulose ether, cellulose, cellulosic ester,
   fluorinated              polyethylene,       phenolic,    poly-4-methylpentene,     polyacrylonitrile,   polyamide,
25 polyamideimide,                 polyacrylate,   polybenzoxazole,    polycarbonate,  polycyanoarylether,    polyester,
   polyestercarbonate,                  polyether,      polyetheretherketone,     polyetherimide,      polyetherketone,
   polyethersulfone,                 polyethylene,    polyfluoroolefin,    polyimide,    polyolefin,    polyoxadiazole,
   polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polypropylene, polystyrene, polysulfide, polysulfone,
   polytetrafluoroethylene, polythioether, polytriazole, polyurethane, polyvinyl, polyvinylidene fluoride,
30 regenerated cellulose, silicone, urea-formaldehyde, collagens, laminins, fibronectin, silk, elastin,
   alginate, hyaluronic acid, agarose, or copolymers or physical blends thereof.                            Scaffolding
   configurations may range from liquid hydrogel suspensions to soft porous scaffolds to rigid, shape
   holding porous scaffolds.
                Hydrogels may be formed from a variety of polymeric materials and are useful in a variety of
35 biomedical applications. Hydrogels can be described physically as three-dimensional networks of
   hydrophilic polymers. Depending on the type of hydrogel, they contain varying percentages of water,
                                                                  -24
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   but altogether do not dissolve in water. Despite their high water content, hydrogels are capable of
   additionally binding great volumes of liquid due to the presence of hydrophilic residues. Hydrogels
   swell extensively without changing their gelatinous structure. The basic physical features of hydrogel
   can be specifically modified, according to the properties of the polymers used and the additional
 5 special equipments of the products.
                Preferably, the hydrogel is made of a polymer, a biologically derived material, a synthetically
   derived material or combinations thereof, that is biologically inert and physiologically compatible
   with mammalian tissues. The hydrogel material preferably does not induce an inflammatory response.
   Examples of other materials which can be used to form a hydrogel include (a) modified alginates, (b)
10 polysaccharides (e.g. gellan gum and carrageenans) which gel by exposure to monovalent cations, (c)
   polysaccharides (e.g., hyaluronic acid) that are very viscous liquids or are thixotropic and form a gel
   over time by the slow evolution of structure, and (d) polymeric hydrogel precursors (e.g.,
   polyethylene oxide-polypropylene glycol block copolymers and proteins). U.S. Pat. No. 6,224,893 BI
   provides a detailed description of the various polymers, and the chemical properties of such polymers,
15 that are suitable for making hydrogels in accordance with the present invention.
                Scaffolding or biomaterial characteristics may enable cells to attach and interact with the
   scaffolding or biomaterial material, and/or may provide porous spaces into which cells can be
   entrapped. In one embodiment, the porous scaffolds or biomaterials of the present invention allow for
   the addition or deposition of one or more populations or admixtures of cells on a biomaterial
20 configured as a porous                 scaffold (e.g., by attachment of the cells) and/or within the pores of the
   scaffold (e.g., by entrapment of the cells). In another embodiment, the scaffolds or biomaterials allow
   or promote for cell:cell and/or cell:biomaterial interactions within the scaffold to form constructs as
   described herein.
                In one embodiment, the biomaterial used in accordance with the present invention is
25 comprised of hyaluronic acid (HA) in hydrogel form, containing HA molecules ranging in size from
   5.1 kDA to >2 x               106 kDa. In another embodiment, the biomaterial used in accordance with the present
   invention is comprised of hyaluronic acid in porous foam form, also containing HA molecules
   ranging in size from 5.1 kDA to >2 x                 106 kDa . In yet another embodiment, the biomaterial used in
   accordance with the present invention is comprised of of a poly-lactic acid (PLA)-based foam, having
30 an open-cell structure and pore size of about 50 microns to about 300 microns. In yet another
   embodiment, the specific cell populations, preferentially B2 but also B4, provide directly and/or
   stimulate synthesis of high molecular weight Hyaluronic Acid through Hyaluronic Acid Synthase-2
   (HAS-2), especially after intra-renal implantation.
                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other types of synthetic or naturally
35 occurring materials known in the art may be used to form scaffolds as described herein.
                                                                 -25
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In one aspect, the present invention provides constructs as described herein made from the
   above-referenced scaffolds or biomaterials.
   Constructs
 5              In one aspect, the invention provides implantable constructs having one or more of the cell
   populations described herein for the treatment of kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency in a
   subject in need. In one embodiment, the construct is made up of a biocompatible material or
   biomaterial, scaffold or matrix composed of one or more synthetic or naturally-occurring
   biocompatible materials and one or more cell populations or admixtures of cells described herein
10 deposited on or embedded in a surface of the scaffold by attachment and/or entrapment. In certain
   embodiments, the construct is made up of a biomaterial and one or more cell populations or
   admixtures of cells described herein coated with, deposited on, deposited in, attached to, entrapped in,
   embedded in, or combined with the biomaterial component(s). Any of the cell populations described
   herein, including enriched cell populations or admixtures thereof, may be used in combination with a
15 matrix to form a construct.
                In another embodiment, the deposited cell population or cellular component of the construct
   is a first kidney cell population enriched for oxygen-tunable EPO-producing cells.            In another
   embodiment, the first kidney cell population contains glomerular and vascular cells in addition to the
   oxygen-tunable EPO-producing cells. In one embodiment, the first kidney cell population is a B4' cell
20 population. In one other embodiment, the deposited cell population or cellular component(s) of the
   construct includes both the first enriched renal cell population and a second renal cell population. In
   some embodiments, the second cell population is not enriched for oxygen-tunable EPO producing
   cells. In another embodiment, the second cell population is enriched for renal tubular cells. In
   another embodiment, the second cell population is enriched for renal tubular cells and contains
25 collecting duct epithelial cells. In other embodiments, the renal tubular cells are characterized by the
   expression of one or more tubular cell markers that may include, without limitation, megalin, cubilin,
   hyaluronic acid synthase 2 (HAS2), Vitamin D3 25-Hydroxylase (CYP2D25), N-cadherin (Ncad), E
   cadherin (Ecad), Aquaporin-1 (Aqpl), Aquaporin-2 (Aqp2), RAB17, member RAS oncogene family
   (Rabl7), GATA binding protein 3 (Gata3), FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 4
30 (Fxyd4), solute carrier family 9 (sodium/hydrogen exchanger), member 4 (Slc9a4), aldehyde
   dehydrogenase 3 family, member BI (Aldh3bl), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A3
   (Aldhla3), and Calpain-8 (Capn8).
                In one embodiment, the cell populations deposited on or combined with biomaterials or
   scaffolds to form constructs of the present invention are derived from a variety of sources, such as
35 autologous sources. Non-autologous sources are also suitable for use, including without limitation,
   allogeneic, or syngeneic (autogeneic or isogeneic) sources.
                                                        -26
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate there are several suitable methods for
   depositing or otherwise combining cell populations with biomaterials to form a construct.
                In one aspect, the constructs of the present invention are suitable for use in the methods of use
   described herein. In one embodiment, the constructs are suitable for administration to a subject in
 5 need of treatment for a kidney disease of any etiology, anemia, or EPO deficiency of any etiology. In
   other embodiments, the constructs are suitable for administration to a subject in need of an
   improvement in or restoration of erythroid homeostasis. In another embodiment, the constructs are
   suitable for administration to a subject in need of improved kidney function.
                In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a construct for implantation into a
10 subject in need of improved kidney function comprising: a) a biomaterial comprising one or more
   biocompatible synthetic polymers or naturally-occurring proteins or peptides; and
                b) an admixture of mammalian renal cells derived from a subject having kidney disease
   comprising a first cell population, B2, comprising an isolated, enriched population of tubular cells
   having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL and a second cell population, B4' , comprising
15 erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells and vascular cells but depleted of glomerular cells having a
   density between 1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL, coated with, deposited on or in, entrapped in, suspended
   in, embedded in and/or otherwise combined with the biomaterial.                 In certain embodiments, the
   admixture does not include a B 1 cell population comprising large granular cells of the collecting duct
   and tubular system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml, or a B5 cell population comprising debris and
20 small cells of low granularity and viability with a density > 1.091 g/ml.
                In one embodiment, the construct includes a B4'       cell population which is characterized by
   expression of a vascular marker. In some emodiments, the B4'            cell population is not characterized by
   expression of a glomerular marker.          In certain embodiments, the admixture is capable of oxygen
   tunable erythropoietin (EPO) expression. In all embodiments, the admixture may be derived from
25 mammalian kidney tissue or cultured kidney cells.
                In one embodiment, the construct includes a biomaterial configured as a three-dimensional
   (3-D) porous biomaterial suitable for entrapment and/or attachment of the admixture.                In another
   embodiment, the construct includes a biomaterial configured as a liquid or semi-liquid gel suitable for
   embedding, attaching, suspending, or coating mammalian cells.                In yet another embodiment, the
30 construct includes a biomaterial configured comprised of a predominantly high-molecular weight
   species of hyaluronic acid (HA) in hydrogel form. In another embodiment, the construct includes a
   biomaterial comprised of a predominantly high-molecular weight species of hyaluronic acid in porous
   foam form. In yet another embodiment, the construct includes a biomaterial comprised of a poly
   lactic acid-based foam having pores of between about 50 microns to about 300 microns.                   In still
35 another embodiment, the construct includes one or more cell populations that may be derived from a
   kidney sample that is autologous to the subject in need of improved kidney function. In certain
                                                          -27
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

    embodiments, the sample is a kidney biopsy. In some emodiments, the subject has a kidney disease.
    In yet other embodiments, the cell population is derived from a non-autologous kidney sample. In
    one embodiment, the construct provides erythroid homeostasis.
 5               Secreted Products
                 In one other aspect, the present invention concerns products secreted from an enriched renal
    cell population or admixture of enriched renal cell populations, as described herein. In one
    embodiment, the products include one or more of the following: paracrine factors, endocrine factors,
   juxtacrine factors, and vesicles. The vesicles may include one or more of the following: paracrine
10  factors, endocrine factors, juxtacrine factors, microvesicles, exosomes, and RNA. The secreted
   products may also include products that are not within microvesicles including, without limitation,
   paracrine factors, endocrine factors, juxtacrine factors, and RNA. For example, extracellular miRNAs
   have been detected externally to vesicles (Wang et al., Nuc Acids Res 2010, 1-12
    doi:10.1093/nar/gkq601, July 7, 2010). The secreted products may also be referred to as cell-derived
15 products, e.g., cell-derived vesicles.
                 In one other embodiment, the secreted products may be part of a vesicle derived from renal
    cells. The vesicles may be capable of delivering the factors to other destinations. In one
    embodiment, the vesicles are secreted vesicles. Several types of secreted vesicles are contemplated
    including, without limitation, exosomes, microvesicles, ectosomes, membrane particles, exosome-like
20  vesicles, and apoptotic vesicles (Thery et al. 2010. Nat. Rev. Immunol. 9:581-593). In one
    embodiment, the secreted vesicles are exosomes. In one other embodiment, the secreted vesicles are
   microvesicles. In one other embodiment, the secreted vesicles contain or comprise one or more
    cellular components. The components may be one or more of the following: membrane lipids, RNA,
   proteins, metabolities, cytosolic components, and any combination thereof In a preferred
25  embodiment, the secreted vesicles comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of microRNAs.
   Preferably, the miRNAs are human miRNAs. In one embodiment, one or more miRNAs are selected
    from the group consisting of miR-30b-5p, miR-449a, miR-146a, miR-130a, miR-23b, miR-21, miR
    124, and miR- 151. In one other embodiment, one or more miRNAs may be selected from the group
    consisting of let-7a-1; let-7a-2; let-7a-3; let-7b; let-7c; let-7d; let-7e; let-7f-1; let-7f-2; let-7g; let-7i;
30 mir-1-1; mir-1-2; mir-7-1; mir-7-2; mir-7-3; mir-9-1; mir-9-2; mir-9-3; mir-10a; mir-10b; mir-15a;
   mir-15b; mir-16-1; mir-16-2; mir-17; mir-18a; mir-18b; mir-19a; mir-19b-1; mir-19b-2; mir-20a; mir
   20b; mir-21; mir-22; mir-23a; mir-23b; mir-23c; mir-24-1; mir-24-2; mir-25; mir-26a-1; mir-26a-2;
   mir-26b; mir-27a; mir-27b; mir-28; mir-29a; mir-29b-1; mir-29b-2; mir-29c; mir-30a; mir-30b; mir
    30c-1; mir-30c-2; mir-30d; mir-30e; mir-31; mir-32; mir-33a; mir-33b; mir-34a; mir-34b; mir-34c;
35 mir-92a-1; mir-92a-2; mir-92b; mir-93; mir-95; mir-96; mir-98; mir-99a mir-99b; mir-100; mir-101
    1; mir-101-2; mir-103-1; mir-103-1-as; mir-103-2; mir-103-2-as; mir-105-1; mir-105-2; mir-106a;
                                                           -28
    9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   mir-106b; mir-107; mir-122; mir-124-1; mir-124-2; mir-124-3; mir-125a; mir-125b-1; mir-125b-2;
   mir-126; mir-127; mir-128-1; mir-128-2; mir-129-1; mir-129-2; mir-130a; mir-130b; mir-132; mir
   132; mir-133a-1; mir-133a-2; mir-133b; mir-134; mir-135a-1; mir-135a-2; mir-135b; mir-136
   M1101351120; mir-137; mir-138-1; mir-138-2; mir-139; mir-140; mir-141; mir-142; mir-143; mir
 5 144; mir-145; mir-146a; mir-146b; mir-147; mir-147b; mir-148a; mir-148b; mir-149; mir-150; mir
   151; mir-152; mir-153-1; mir-153-2; mir-154; mir-155; mir-181a-1; mir-181a-2; mir-181b-1; mir
   18lb-2; mir-181c; mir-181d; mir-182; mir-183; mir-184; mir-185; mir-186; mir-187; mir-188; mir
   190; mir-190b; mir-191; mir-192; mir-193a; mir-193b; mir-194-1; mir-194-2; mir-195; mir-196a-1;
   mir-196a-2; mir-196b; mir-197; mir-198; mir-199a-1; mir-199a-2; mir-199b; mir-200a; mir-200b;
10 mir-200c; mir-202; mir-203; mir-204; mir-205; mir-206; mir-208a; mir-208b; mir-210; mir-21 1; mir
   212; mir-214; mir-215; mir-216a; mir-216b; mir-217; mir-218-1; mir-218-2; mir-219-1; mir-219-2;
   mir-221; mir-222; mir-223; mir-224; mir-296; mir-297; mir-298; mir-299; mir-300; mir-301a; mir
   301b; mir-302a; mir-302b; mir-302c; mir-302d; mir-302e; mir-302f; mir-320a; mir-320b-1; mir
   320b-2; mir-320c-1; mir-320c-2; mir-320d-1; mir-320d-2; mir-320e; mir-323; mir-323b; mir-324;
15 mir-325; mir-326; mir-328; mir-329-1; mir-329-2; mir-330; mir-331; mir-335; mir-337; mir-338; mir
   339; mir-340; mir-342; mir-345; mir-346; mir-361; mir-362; mir-363; mir-365-1; mir-365-2; mir-367;
   mir-369; mir-370; mir-37; mir-372; mir-373; mir-374a; mir-374b; mir-374c; mir-375; mir-376a-1;
   mir-376a-2; mir-376b; mir-376c; mir-377; mir-378; mir-378b; mir-378c; mir-379; mir-380; mir-381;
   mir-382; mir-383; mir-384; mir-409; mir-410; mir-41 1; mir-412; mir-421; mir-422a; mir-423; mir
20 424; mir-425; mir-429; mir-431; mir-432; mir-433; mir-448; mir-449a; mir-449b; mir-449c; mir
   450a-1; mir-450a-2; mir-450b; mir-451; mir-452; mir-454; mir-455; mir-466; mir-483; mir-484; mir
   485; mir-486; mir-487a; mir-487b; mir-488; mir-489; mir-490; mir-491; mir-492; mir-493; mir-494;
   mir-495; mir-496; mir-497; mir-498; mir-499; mir-500a; mir-500b; mir-501; mir-502; mir-503; mir
   504; mir-505; mir-506; mir-507; mir-508; mir-509-1; mir-509-2; mir-509-3; mir-510; mir-51 1-1; mir
25 511-2; mir-512-1; mir-512-2; mir-513a-1; mir-513a-2; mir-513b; mir-513c; mir-514-1; mir-514-2;
   mir-514-3; mir-514b; mir-515-1; mir-515-2; mir-516a-1; mir-516a-2; mir-516b-1; mir-516b-2; mir
   517a; mir-517b; mir-517c; mir-518a-1; mir-518a-2; mir-518b; mir-518c; mir-518d; mir-518e; mir
   518f; mir-519a-1; mir-519a-2; mir-519b; mir-519c; mir-519d; mir-519e; mir-520a; mir-520b; mir
   520c; mir-520d; mir-520e; mir-520f; mir-520g; mir-520h; mir-521-1; mir-521-2; mir-522; mir-523;
30 mir-524; mir-525; mir-526a-1; mir-526a-2; mir-526b; mir-527; mir-532; mir-539; mir-541; mir-542;
   mir-543; mir-544; mir-544b; mir-545; mir-548a-1; mir-548a-2; mir-548a-3; mir-548aa-1; mir-548aa
   2; mir-548b; mir-548c; mir-548d-1; mir-548d-2; mir-548e; mir-548f-1; mir-548f-2; mir-548f-3; mir
   548f-4; mir-548f-5; mir-548g; mir-548h-1; mir-548h-2; mir-548h-3; mir-548h-4; mir-548i-1; mir
   548i-2; mir-548i-3; mir-548i-4; mir-548j; mir-548k; mir-5481; mir-548m; mir-548n; mir-548o; mir
35 548p; mir-548s; mir-548t; mir-548u; mir-548v; mir-548w; mir-548x; mir-548y; mir-548z; mir-549;
   mir-550a-1; mir-550a-2; mir-550b-1; mir-550b-2; mir-551a; mir-551b; mir-552; mir-553; mir-554;
                                                   -29
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   mir-555; mir-556; mir-557; mir-558; mir-559; mir-561; mir-562; mir-563; mir-564; mir-566; mir
   567; mir-568; mir-569; mir-570; mir-571; mir-572; mir-573; mir-574; mir-575; mir-576; mir-577;
   mir-578; mir-579; mir-580; mir-581; mir-582; mir-583; mir-584; mir-585; mir-586; mir-587; mir
   588; mir-589; mir-590; mir-591; mir-592; mir-593; mir-595; mir-596; mir-597; mir-598; mir-599;
 5 mir-600; mir-601; mir-602; mir-603; mir-604; mir-605; mir-606; mir-607; mir-608; mir-609; mir
   610; mir-611; mir-612; mir-613; mir-614; mir-615; mir-616; mir-617; mir-618; mir-619; mir-620;
   mir-621; mir-622; mir-623; mir-624; mir-625; mir-626; mir-627; mir-628; mir-629; mir-630; mir
   631; mir-632; mir-633; mir-634; mir-635; mir-636; mir-637; mir-638; mir-639; mir-640; mir-641;
   mir-642a; mir-642b; mir-643; mir-644; mir-645; mir-646; mir-647; mir-648; mir-649; mir-650; mir
10 651; mir-652; mir-653; mir-654; mir-655; mir-656; mir-657; mir-658; mir-659; mir-660; mir-661;
   mir-662; mir-663; mir-663b; mir-664; mir-665; mir-668; mir-670; mir-671; mir-675; mir-676; mir
   708; mir-71 1; mir-718; mir-720; mir-744; mir-758; mir-759; mir-760; mir-761; mir-762; mir-764;
   mir-765; mir-766; mir-767; mir-769; mir-770; mir-802; mir-873; mir-874; mir-875; mir-876; mir
   877; mir-885; mir-887; mir-888; mir-889; mir-890; mir-891a; mir-891b; mir-892a; mir-892b; mir
15 920; mir-921; mir-922; mir-924; mir-933; mir-934; mir-935; mir-936; mir-937; mir-938; mir-939;
   mir-940; mir-941-1; mir-941-2; mir-941-3; mir-941-4; mir-942; mir-942; mir-943; mir-944; mir
   1178; mir-1 179; mir-1 180; mir-1 181; mir-1 182; mir-1 183; mir-1 184-1; mir-1 184-2; mir-1 184-3; mir
   1185-1; mir-1 185-2; mir-1 193; mir-1 197; mir-1200; mir-1202; mir-1203; mir-1204; mir-1205; mir
   1206; mir-1207; mir-1208; mir-1224; mir-1225; mir-1226; mir-1227; mir-1228; mir-1229; mir-1231;
20 mir-1233-1; mir-1233-2; mir-1234; mir-1236; mir-1237; mir-1238; mir-1243; mir-1244-1; mir-1244
   2; mir-1244-3; mir-1245; mir-1246; mir-1247; mir-1248; mir-1249; mir-1250; mir-1251; mir-1252;
   mir-1253; mir-1254; mir-1255a; mir-1255b-1; mir-1255b-2; mir-1256; mir-1257; mir-1258; mir
   1260; mir-1260b; mir-1261; mir-1262; mir-1263; mir-1264; mir-1265; mir-1266; mir-1267; mir
   1268; mir-1269; mir-1270-1; mir-1270-2; mir-1271; mir-1272; mir-1273; mir-1273c; mir-1273d; mir
25 1273e; mir-1274a; mir-1274b; mir-1275; mir-1276; mir-1277; mir-1278; mir-1279; mir-1280; mir
   1281; mir-1282; mir-1283-1; mir-1283-2; mir-1284; mir-1285-1; mir-1285-2; mir-1286; mir-1287;
   mir-1288; mir-1289-1; mir-1289-2; mir-1290; mir-1291; mir-1292; mir-1293; mir-1294; mir-1295;
   mir-1296; mir-1297; mir-1298; mir-1299; mir-1301; mir-1302-1; mir-1302-10; mir-1302-11; mir
   1302-2; mir-1302-3; mir-1302-4; mir-1302-5; mir-1302-6; mir-1302-7; mir-1302-8; mir-1302-9; mir
30 1303; mir-1304; mir-1305; mir-1306; mir-1307; mir-1321; mir-1322; mir-1323; mir-1324; mir-1468;
   mir-1469; mir-1470; mir-1471; mir-1537; mir-1538; mir-1539; mir-1825; mir-1827; mir-1908; mir
   1909; mir-1910; mir-1911; mir-1912; mir-1913; mir-1914; mir-1915; mir-1972-1; mir-1972-2; mir
   1973; mir-1976; mir-2052; mir-2053; mir-2054; mir-2110; mir-2113; mir-2114; mir-2115; mir-2116;
   mir-2117; mir-2276; mir-2277; mir-2278; mir-2355; mir-2861; mir-2909; mir-3065; mir-3074; mir
35 3115; mir-3116-1; mir-3116-2; mir-3117; mir-3118-1; mir-3118-2; mir-3118-3; mir-3118-4; mir
   3118-5; mir-3118-6; mir-3119-1;mir-3119-2; mir-3120; mir-3121; mir-3122; mir-3123; mir-3124;
                                                     -30
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   mir-3125; mir-3126; mir-3127; mir-3128; mir-3129; mir-3130-1; mir-3130-2; mir-3131; mir-3132;
   mir-3133; mir-3134; mir-3135; mir-3136; mir-3137; mir-3138; mir-3139; mir-3140; mir-3141; mir
   3142; mir-3143; mir-3144; mir-3145; mir-3146; mir-3147; mir-3148; mir-3149; mir-3150; mir-3151;
   mir-3152; mir-3153; mir-3154; mir-3155; mir-3156-1; mir-3156-2; mir-3156-3; mir-3157; mir-3158
 5  1; mir-3158-2; mir-3159; mir-3160-1; mir-3160-2; mir-3161; mir-3162; mir-3163; mir-3164; mir
   3165; mir-3166; mir-3167; mir-3168; mir-3169; mir-3170; mir-3171; mir-3173; mir-3174; mir-3175;
   mir-3176; mir-3177; mir-3178; mir-3179-1; mir-3179-2; mir-3179-3; mir-3180-1; mir-3180-2; mir
   3180-3; mir-3180-4; mir-3180-5; mir-3181; mir-3182; mir-3183; mir-3184; mir-3185; mir-3186; mir
   3187; mir-3188; mir-3189; mir-3190; mir-3191; mir-3192; mir-3193; mir-3194; mir-3195; mir-3196;
10 mir-3197; mir-3198; mir-3199-1; mir-3199-2; mir-3200; mir-3201; mir-3202-1; mir-3202-2; mir
   3605; mir-3606; mir-3607; mir-3609; mir-3610; mir-3611; mir-3612; mir-3613; mir-3614; mir-3615;
   mir-3616; mir-3617; mir-3618; mir-3619; mir-3620; mir-3621; mir-3622a; mir-3622b; mir-3646; mir
   3647; mir-3648; mir-3649; mir-3650; mir-3651; mir-3652; mir-3653; mir-3654; mir-3655; mir
   3656mir-3657; mir-3658; mir-3659; mir-3660; mir-3661; mir-3662; mir-3663; mir-3664; mir-3665;
15 mir-3666; mir-3667; mir-3668; mir-3669; mir-3670; mir-3670; mir-3671; mir-3671; mir-3673; mir
   3673; mir-3675; mir-3675; mir-3676; mir-3663; mir-3677; mir-3678; mir-3679; mir-3680; mir-3681;
   mir-3682; mir-3683; mir-3684; mir-3685; mir-3686; mir-3687; mir-3688; mir-3689a; mir-3689b; mir
   3690; mir-3691; mir-3692; mir-3713; mir-3714; mir-3907; mir-3908; mir-3909; mir-3910-1; mir
   3910-2; mir-3911; mir-3912; mir-3913-1; mir-3913-2; mir-3914-1; mir-3914-2; mir-3915; mir-3916;
20 mir-3917; mir-3918; mir-3919; mir-3920; mir-3921; mir-3922; mir-3923; mir-3924; mir-3925; mir
   3926-1; mir-3926-2; mir-3927; mir-3928; mir-3929; mir-3934; mir-3935; mir-3936; mir-3937; mir
   3938; mir-3939; mir-3940; mir-3941; mir-3942; mir-3943; mir-3944; mir-3945; mir-4251; mir-4252;
   mir-4253; mir-4254; mir-4255; mir-4256; mir-4257; mir-4258; mir-4259; mir-4260; mir-4261; mir
   4262; mir-4263; mir-4264; mir-4265; mir-4266; mir-4267; mir-4268; mir-4269; mir-4270; mir-4271;
25 mir-4272; mir-4273; mir-4274; mir-4275; mir-4276; mir-4277; mir-4278; mir-4279; mir-4280; mir
   4281; mir-4282; mir-4283-1; mir-4283-2; mir-4284; mir-4285; mir-4286; mir-4287; mir-4288; mir
   4289; mir-4290; mir-4291; mir-4292; mir-4293; mir-4294; mir-4295; mir-4296; mir-4297; mir-4298;
   mir-4299; mir-4300; mir-4301; mir-4302; mir-4303; mir-4304; mir-4305; mir-4306; mir-4307; mir
   4308; mir-4309; mir-4310; mir-4311; mir-4312; mir-4313; mir-4314; mir-4315-1; mir-4315-2; mir
30 4316; mir-4317; mir-4318; mir-4319; mir-4320; mir-4321; mir-4322; mir-4323; mir-4324; mir-4325;
   mir-4326; mir-4327; mir-4328;mir-4329; mir-4329; and mir-4330.
                The present invention relates to cell-derived or secreted miRNAs obtainable from the cell
   populations or constructs described herein. In one embodiment, one or more of the individual
   miRNAs may be used to provide a regenerative effect to a native kidney. Combinations of the
35 individual miRNAs may be suitable for providing such an effect. Exemplary combinations include
   two or more of the following: miR-21; miR-23a; miR-30c; miR-1224; miR-23b; miR-92a; miR-100;
                                                           -31
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   miR-125b-5p; miR-195; miR-1Oa-5p; and any combination thereof. Another exemplary combination
   includes two or more of the following: miR-30b-5p, miR-449a, miR-146a, miR-130a, miR-23b, miR
   21, miR- 124, miR- 151, and any combination thereof. In one embodiment, the combination of
   miRNAs may include 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more individual miRNAs. Those of ordinary skill in
 5 the are will appreciate that other miRNAs and combinations of mirRNAs may be suitable for use in
   the present invention. Sources of additional miRNAs include miRBase at http://mirbase.org, which is
   hosted and maintained in the Faculty of Life Sciences at the University of Manchester.
                In one embodiment, the secreted products comprise paracrine factors. In general, paracrine
   factors are molecules synthesized by a cell that can diffuse over small distances to induce or effect
10 changes in a neighboring cell, i.e., a paracrine interaction. The diffusable molecules are referred to as
   paracrine factors.
                In yet another embodiment, the present invention concerns a composition of one or more
   isolated renal-cell derived secreted vesicles, as described herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
   appreciate that various types of compositions containing the secreted vesicles will be suitable.
15              In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of preparing renal cell secreted
   products, e.g., vesicles. In one embodiment, the method includes the steps of providing a renal cell
   population, including admixtures of one or more enriched renal cell populations. In another
   embodiment, the method further includes the step of culturing the population under suitable
   conditions. The conditions may be low oxygen conditions. In another embodiment, the method
20 further includes the step of isolating the secreted products from the renal cell population. The
   secreted vesicles may be obtained from the cell culture media of the cell population. In one other
   embodiment, the renal cells are characterized by vesicle production and/or secretion that is
   bioresponsive to oxygen levels, such that a reduction in the oxygen tension of the culture system
   results in an induction of vesicle production and/or secretion. In one embodiment, the vesicle
25 production and/or secretion is induced when the cell population is cultured under conditions where
   the cells are subjected to a reduction in available oxygen levels in the culture system as compared to a
   cell population cultured at normal atmospheric (-2 1%) levels of available oxygen. In one
   embodiment, the cell populations cultured in lower oxygen conditions produce and/or secrete greater
   levels of vesicles relative to cell populations cultured at normal oxygen conditions. In general, the
30 culturing of cells at reduced levels of available oxygen (also referred to as hypoxic culture conditions)
   means that the level of reduced oxygen is reduced relative to the culturing of cells at normal
   atmospheric levels of available oxygen (also referred to as normal or normoxic culture conditions). In
   one embodiment, hypoxic cell culture conditions include culturing cells at about less than      1%  oxygen,
   about less than 2% oxygen, about less than 3% oxygen, about less than 4% oxygen, or about less than
35 5% oxygen. In another embodiment, normal or normoxic culture conditions include culturing cells at
   about 10% oxygen, about 12% oxygen, about 13% oxygen, about 14% oxygen, about 15% oxygen,
                                                          -32
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   about 16% oxygen, about 17% oxygen, about 18% oxygen, about 19% oxygen, about 20% oxygen, or
   about 210% oxygen. In a preferred embodiment, the method provides for the isolation of exosomes
   and/or microvesicles from renal cells.
                In one embodiment, the products are secreted from renal cells. The products may be secreted
 5 from renal cells that are not on a scaffold, e.g., the cells are not part of a construct as described herein.
                In another embodiment, the products are secreted by renal cells that have been seeded on a
   scaffold, e.g., a construct. The construct includes one or more enriched renal cell populations or an
   admixture thereof that are directly seeded on or in a scaffold.
                In        another    aspect, the    present   invention  provides     in   vitro    methods    for
10 screening/optimizing/monitoring the biotherapeutic efficacy of one or more enriched renal cell
   populations, and admixtures or constructs containing the same.              In one embodiment, the method
   includes the step of providing one or more test populations, test admixture or test construct (the "test
   article").        In another embodiment, the method includes the step of culturing the test article under
   suitable conditions, as described herein. In one other embodiment, the method includes the step of
15 collecting cell culture media from the cultured test article.            This media may be referred to as
   "conditioned media" and it is expected to contain products secreted by the renal cells of the test
   article.
                In one other aspect, the conditioned media may be used to conduct one or more in vitro assays
   in order to test the biotherapeutic efficacy of the test article.       In one embodiment, the conditioned
20 media is subjected to an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) assay. The assay may test for
   EMT induced by TGF.                Example   15 provides an exemplary protocol for this assay.
                In another embodiment, the conditioned media is subjected to the detection of RNAs, e.g., via
   PCR-based assays, and/or vesicles or exosomes, e.g., via FACS.                In one other embodiment, the
   conditioned media is subjected to a signaling pathway assay, e.g., immune response (e.g., NFB),
25 fibrotic response (PAI-1), and angiogenesis. Examples 12-14 provides exemplary protocols for these
   assays.
                Methods of use
                In one aspect, the present invention provides methods for the treatment of a kidney disease,
   anemia, or EPO deficiency in a subject in need with the kidney cell populations and admixtures of
30 kidney cells described herein. In one embodiment, the method comprises administering to the subject
   a composition that includes a first kidney cell population enriched for EPO-producing cells.                 In
   another embodiment, the first cell population is enriched for EPO-producing cells, glomerular cells,
   and vascular cells. In one embodiment, the first kidney cell population is a B4'            cell population. In
   another embodiment, the composition may further include one or more additional kidney cell
35 populations.             In one embodiment, the additional cell population is a second cell population not
   enriched for EPO-producing cells. In another embodiment, the additional cell population is a second
                                                            -33
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   cell population not enriched for EPO-producing cells, glomerular cells, or vascular cells. In another
   embodiment, the composition also includes a kidney cell population or admixture of kidney cells
   deposited in, deposited on, embedded in, coated with, or entrapped             in a biomaterial to form an
   implantable construct, as described herein, for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein.
 5 In one embodiment, the cell populations are used alone or in combination with other cells or
   biomaterials, e.g., hydrogels, porous scaffolds, or native or synthetic peptides or proteins, to stimulate
   regeneration in acute or chronic disease states.
                In another aspect, the effective treatment of a kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency in a
   subject by the methods of the present invention can be observed through various indicators of
10 erythropoiesis and/or kidney function. In one embodiment, the indicators of erythroid homeostasis
   include, without limitation, hematocrit (HCT), hemoglobin (HB), mean corpuscular hemoglobin
   (MCH), red blood cell count (RBC), reticulocyte number, reticulocyte %, mean corpuscular volume
   (MCV), and red blood cell distribution width (RDW). In one other embodiment, the indicators of
   kidney function include, without limitation, serum albumin, albumin to globulin ratio (A/G ratio),
15 serum phosphorous, serum sodium, kidney size (measurable by ultrasound),                   serum calcium,
   phosphorous:calcium ratio, serum potassium, proteinuria, urine creatinine, serum creatinine, blood
   nitrogen urea (BUN), cholesterol levels, triglyceride levels and glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
   Furthermore, several indicators of general health and well-being include, without limitation, weight
   gain or loss, survival, blood pressure (mean systemic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, or
20 systolic blood pressure), and physical endurance performance.
                In another embodiment, an effective treatment is evidenced by stabilization of one or more
   indicators of kidney function. The stabilization of kidney function is demonstrated by the observation
   of a change in an indicator in a subject treated by a method of the present invention as compared to
   the same indicator in a subject that has not been treated by a method of the present invention.
25 Alternatively, the stabilization of kidney function may be demonstrated by the observation of a
   change in an indicator in a subject treated by a method of the present invention as compared to the
   same indicator in the same subject prior to treatment. The change in the first indicator may be an
   increase or a decrease in value. In one embodiment, the treatment provided by the present invention
   may include stabilization of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels in a subject where the BUN levels
30 observed in the subject are lower as compared to a subject with a similar disease state who has not
   been treated by the methods of the present invention. In one other embodiment, the treatment may
   include stabilization of serum creatinine levels in a subject where the serum creatinine levels observed
   in the subject are lower as compared to a subject with a similar disease state who has not been treated
   by the methods of the present invention.             In another embodiment, the treatment may include
35 stabilization of hematocrit (HCT) levels in a subject where the HCT levels observed in the subject are
   higher as compared to a subject with a similar disease state who has not been treated by the methods
                                                          -34
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   of the present invention. In another embodiment, the treatment may include stabilization of red blood
   cell (RBC) levels in a subject where the RBC levels observed in the subject are higher as compared to
   a subject with a similar disease state who has not been treated by the methods of the present
   invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that one or more additional indicators
 5 described herein or known in the art may be measured to determine the effective treatment of a kidney
   disease in the subject.
                In another aspect, the present invention concerns a method of providing erythroid
   homeostasis in a subject in need.            In one embodiment, the method includes the step of (a)
   administering to the subject a renal cell population, e.g., B2 or B4' , or admixture of renal cells,e.g.,
10 B2/B4'         and/or B2/B3, as described herein; and (b) dtermining, in a biological sample from the
   subject, that the level of an erythropoiesis indicator is different relative to the indicator level in a
   control, wherein the difference in indicator level (i) indicates the subject is responsive to the
   administering step (a), or (ii) is indicative of erythroid homeostasis in the subject.         In another
   embodiment, the method includes the step of (a) administering to the subject a composition
15 comprising a renal cell population or admixture of renal cells as described herein; and (b)
   determining, in a biological sample from the subject, that the level of an erythropoiesis indicator is
   different relative to the indicator level in a control, wherein the difference in indicator level (i)
   indicates the subject is responsive to the administering step (s), or (ii) is indicative of erythroid
   homeostasis in the subject. In another embodiment, the method includes the step of (a) providing a
20 biomaterial or biocompatible polymeric scaffold; (b) depositing a renal cell population or admixture
   of renal cells of the present invention on or within the biomaterial or scaffold in a manner described
   herein to form an implantable construct; (c) implanting the construct into the subject; and (d)
   determining, in a biological sample from the subject, that the level of an erythropoiesis indicator is
   different relative to the indicator level in a control, wherein the difference in indicator level (i)
25 indicates the subject is responsive to the administering step (a), or (ii) is indicative of erythroid
   homeostasis in the subject.
                In another aspect, the present invention concerns a method of providing both stabilization of
   kidney function and restoration of erythroid homeostasis to a subject in need, said subject having both
   a deficit in kidney function and an anemia and/or EPO-deficiency. In one embodiment, the method
30 includes the step of administering a renal cell population or admixture of renal cells as described
   herein that contain at least one of the following cell types: tubular-derived cells, glomerulus-derived
   cells, insterstitium-derived cells, collecting duct-derived cells, stromal tissue-derived cells, or cells
   derived from the vasculature. In another embodiment, the population or admixture contains both
   EPO-producing cells and tubular epithelial cells, the tubular cells having been identified by at least
35 one of the following markers: megalin, cubilin, hyaluronic acid synthase 2 (HAS2), Vitamin D3 25
   Hydroxylase (CYP2D25), N-cadherin (Ncad), E-cadherin (Ecad), Aquaporin-1 (Aqpl), Aquaporin-2
                                                         -35
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   (Aqp2), RAB17, member RAS oncogene family (Rab 17), GATA binding protein 3 (Gata3), FXYD
   domain-containing ion transport regulator 4 (Fxyd4), solute carrier family 9 (sodium/hydrogen
   exchanger), member 4 (Slc9a4), aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family, member B 1 (Aldh3b 1), aldehyde
   dehydrogenase 1 family, member A3 (Aldhla3), and Calpain-8 (Capn8). In this embodiment,
 5 treatment of the subject would be demonstrated by an improvement in at least one indicator of kidney
   function concomitant with improvement in at least one indicator of erythropoiesis, compared to either
   an untreated subject or to the subject' s pretreatment indicators.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides methods of (i) treating a kidney disease, anemia,
   or an EPO-deficiency; (ii) stabilizing kidney function, (iii) restoring erythroid homeostasis, or (iv) any
10 combination of thereof by administering a renal cell population enriched for EPO-producing cells or
   admixture of renal cells containing a cell population enriched for EPO-producing cells as described
   herein, wherein the beneficial                effects of the administration are greater than the effects of
   administering a cell population not enriched for EPO-producing cells. In another embodiment, the
   enriched cell population provides an inproved level of serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN). In another
15 embodiment, the enriched cell population provides an improved retention of protein in the serum. In
   another embodiment, the enriched cell population provides improved levels of serum cholesterol
   and/or triglycerides. In another embodiment, the enriched cell population provides an improved level
   of Vitamin D. In                     one embodiment,   the enriched cell population provides   an improved
   phosphorus:calcium ratio as compared to a non-enriched cell population. In another embodiment, the
20 enriched cell population provides an improved level of hemoglobin as compared to a non-enriched
   cell population. In a further embodiment, the enriched cell population provides an improved level of
   serum creatinine as compared to a non-enriched cell population.               In yet another embodiment, the
   enriched cell population provides an improved level of hematocrit as compared to a non-enriched cell
   population. In a further embodiment, the enriched cell population provides an improved level of red
25 blood cell number (RBC#) as compared to a non-enriched cell population. In one embodiment, the
   improved level of hematocrit is restored to 95% normal healthy level. In a further embodiment, the
   enriched cell population provides an improved reticulocyte number as compared to a non-enriched
   cell population.                  In other embodiments, the enriched cell population provides an improved
   reticulocyte percentage as compared to a non-enriched cell population. In yet other embodiments, the
30 enriched cell population provides an improved level of red blood cell volume distribution width
   (RDW) as compared to a non-enriched cell population. In yet another embodiment, the enriched cell
   population provides an improved level of hemoglobin as compared to a non-enriched cell population.
   In yet another embodiment, the enriched cell population provides an erythroietic response in the bone
   marrow, such that the marrow cellularity is near-normal and the myeloid:erythroid ratio is near
35 normal.
                                                              -36
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of (i) treating a kidney disease,
   anemia, or an EPO-deficiency; (ii) stabilizing kidney function, (iii) restoring erythroid homeostasis, or
   (iv) any combination of thereof by administering an enriched cell population, wherein the beneficial
   effects of administering a renal cell population or admixture of renal cell populations described herein
 5 are characterized by improved erythroid homeostasis when compared to the beneficial effects
   provided by the administering of recombinant EPO (rEPO). In one embodiment, the population or
   admixture, when administered to a subject in need provides improved erythroid homeostasis (as
   determined by hematocrit, hemoglobin,               or RBC#) when compared to the administration            of
   recombinant EPO protein.               In one embodiment, the population or admixture, when administered
10 provides an improved level of hematocrit, RBC, or hemoglobin as compared to recombinant EPO,
   being no greater than about 10% lower or higher than hematocrit in a control.                   In a further
   embodiment, a single dose or delivery of the population or admixture, when administered provides
   improvement in erythroid homeostasis (as determined by increase in hematocrit, hemoglobin, or
   RBC#) in the treated subject for a period of time that significantly exceeds the period of time that a
15 single dose or delivery of the recombinant EPO protein provides improvement in erythroid
   homeostasis.              In another embodiment, the population or admixture, when administered at a dose
   described herein does not result in hematocrit, hemoglobin, or RBC# greater than about I10% of
   normal levels in matched healthy controls. In a further embodiment, the population or admixture,
   when administered at a dose described herein provides superior erythroid homeostasis (as determined
20 by hematocrit, hemoglobin, or RBC#) compared to recombinant EPO protein delivered at a dose
   described herein. In another embodiment, the recombinant EPO is delivered at a dose of about 100
   IU/kg, about 200 IU/kg, about 300 IU/kg, about 400 IU/kg, or about 500 IU/kg. Those of ordinary
   skill in the art will appreciate that other dosages of recombinant EPO known in the art may be
   suitable.
25              Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the use of at least one cell
   population, including enriched cell populations and admixtures thereof, described herein, or an
   implantable construct described herein, or secreted products as described herein, for the preparation of
   a medicament useful in the treatment of a kidney disease, anemia, or EPO deficiency in a subject in
   need, the providing of erythroid homeostasis in a subject in need, the improvement of kidney function
30 in a subject in need, or providing a regenerative effect to a native kidney.
                Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to the use of specific enriched cell
   population(s) (described herein) for the treatement of a kidney disease of a specific etiology, based on
   selection of specific cell subpopulation(s) based on specific verified therapeutic attributes.
                In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating a kidney disease in
35 a subject in need, comprising: administering to the subject a composition comprising an admixture of
   mammalian renal cells comprising a first cell population, B2, comprising an isolated, enriched
                                                           -37
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   population of tubular cells having a density between 1.045 g/mL and 1.052 g/mL, and a second cell
   population, B4' , comprising erythropoietin (EPO)producing cells and vascular cells but depleted of
   glomerular cells having a density between 1.063 g/mL and 1.091 g/mL, wherein the admixture does
   not include a BI cell population comprising large granular cells of the collecting duct and tubular
 5 system having a density of < 1.045 g/ml, or a B5 cell population comprising debris and small cells of
   low granularity and viability with a density > 1.091 g/ml. In certain embodiments, the method
   includes determining in a test sample from the subject that the level of a kidney function indicator is
   different relative to the indicator level in a control, wherein the difference in indicator level is
   indicative of a reduction in decline, a stabilization, or an improvement of one or more kidney
10 functions in the subject. In one embodiment, the B4' cell population used in the method is
   characterized by expression of a vascular marker. In certain embodiments, the B4' cell population
   used in the method is not characterized by expression of a glomerular marker. In one embodiment,
   the admixture of cells used in the method is capable of oxygen-tunable erythropoietin (EPO)
   expression. In certain embodiments, the kidney disease to be treated by the methods of the invention
15 is accompanied by an erythropoietin (EPO) deficiency. In certain embodiments, the EPO deficiency
   is anemia. In some embodiments, the EPO deficiency or anemia occurs secondary to renal failure in
   the subject. In some other embodiments, the EPO deficiency or anemia occurs secondary to a
   disorder selected from the group consisting of chronic renal failure, primary EPO deficiency,
   chemotherapy or anti-viral therapy, non-myeloid cancer, HIV infection, liver disease, cardiac failure,
20 rheumatoid arthritis, or multi-organ system failure. In certain embodiments, the composition used in
   the method further comprises a biomaterial comprising one or more biocompatible synthetic polymers
   and/or naturally-occurring proteins or peptides, wherein the admixture is coated with, deposited on or
   in, entrapped in, suspended in, embedded in and/or otherwise combined with the biomaterial. In
   certain embodiments, the admixture used in the methods of the invention is derived from mammalian
25 kidney tissue or cultured mammalian kidney cells. In other embodiments, the admixture is derived
   from a kidney sample that is autologous to the subject in need. In one embodiment, the sample is a
   kidney biopsy. In other embodiments, the admixture used in the methods of the invention is derived
   from a non-autologous kidney sample.
                In yet another aspect, the invention provides a use of the cell preparations and admixtures
30 thereof or an implantable construct of the instant invention for the preparation of a medicament useful
   in the treatment of a kidney disease, anemia or EPO deficiency in a subject in need thereof.
                In another aspect, the present invention provides methods for the regeneration of a native
   kidney in a subject in need thereof.             In one embodiment, the method includes the step of
   administering or implanting a cell population, admixture, or construct described herein to the subject.
35 A regenerated native kidney may be characterized by a number of indicators including, without
   limitation, development of function or capacity in the native kidney, improvement of function or
                                                          -38
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   capacity in the native kidney, and the expression of certain markers in the native kidney.            In one
   embodiment, the developed or improved function or capacity may be observed based on the various
   indicators of erythroid homeostasis and kidney function described above. In another embodiment, the
   regenerated kidney is characterized by differential expression of one or more stem cell markers. The
 5 stem cell marker may be one or more of the following: SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2
   (Sox2); Undifferentiated Embryonic Cell Transcription Factor (UTF 1); Nodal Homolog from Mouse
   (NODAL); Prominin 1 (PROMI) or CD133 (CD133); CD24; and any combination thereof.                          In
   another embodiment, the expression of the stem cell marker(s) is upregulated compared to a control.
                The cell populations described herein, including enriched cell populations and admixtures
10 thereof as well as constructs containing the same, may be used to provide a regenerative effect to a
   native kidney. The effect may be provided by the cells themselves and/or by products secreted from
   the cells. The regenerative effect may be characterized by one or more of the following: a reduction
   in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (which may be via attenuation of TGF-P signalling); a reduction
   in renal fibrosis; a reduction in renal inflammation; differential expression of a stem cell marker in the
15 native kidney; migration of implanted cells and/or native cells to a site of renal injury, e.g., tubular
   injury, engraftment of implanted cells at a site of renal injury, e.g., tubular injury; stabilization of one
   or more indicators of kidney function (as described herein); restoration of erythroid homeostasis (as
   described herein); and any combination thereof.
20 Methods of monitoring regeneration
                In another aspect, the present invention provides a prognostic method for monitoring
   regeneration of a native kidney following administration or implantation of a cell population,
   admixture, or construct described herein to the subject. In one embodiment, the method includes the
   step of detecting the level of marker expression in a test sample obtained from the subject and in a
25 control sample, wherein a higher level of expression of the marker in the test sample, as compared to
   the control sample, is prognostic for regeneration of the native kidney in the subject.           In another
   embodiment, the method includes the detection of expression of one or more stem cell markers in the
   sample. The stem cell marker may be selected from Sox2; UTFI; NODAL; CD133; CD24; and any
   combination thereof. The detecting step may include determining that expression of the stem cell
30 marker(s) is upregulated or higher in the test sample relative to a control sample, wherein the higher
   level of expression is prognostic for regeneration of the subject' s native kidney.            In one other
   embodiment, mRNA expression of the stem cell marker(s) is detected.            In other embodiments, the
   detection of mRNA expression may be via a PCR-based method, e.g., qRT-PCR.                           In situ
   hybridization may also be used for the detection of mRNA expression.
35              In one other embodiment, polypeptide expression of the stem cell marker(s) is detected. In
   another embodiment, polypeptide expression is detected using an anti-stem cell marker agent. In one
                                                       -39
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   other embodiment, the agent is an antibody against the marker. In another embodiment, stem cell
   marker polypeptide expression is detected using immunohistochemistry or a Western Blot.
                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other methods for detecting mRNA and/or
   polypeptide expression of markers.
 5              In one embodiment, the detecting step is preceded by the step of obtaining the test sample
   from the subject. In another embodiment, the test sample is kidney tissue.
                In one other aspect, the present invention provides the use of markers, such as stem cell
   markers, as a surrogate marker for regeneration of the native kidney. Such a marker could be used
   independent of or in conjunction with an assessment of regeneration based on whether function or
10 capacity has been developed or improved (e.g., indicators of erythroid homeostasis and kidney
   function). Monitoring a surrogate marker over the time course of regeneration may also serve as a
   prognostic indicator of regeneration.
                In another aspect, the invention provides methods for prognostic evaluation of a patient
   following implantation or administration of a cell population, admixture, or construct described
15 herein. In one embodiment, the method includes the step of detecting the level of marker expression
   in a test sample obtained from said subject; (b) determining the expression level in the test sample
   relative to the level of marker expression relative to a control sample (or a control reference value);
   and (c) predicting regenerative prognosis of the patient based on the determination of marker
   expression levels, wherein a higher level of expression of marker in the test sample, as compared to
20 the control sample (or a control reference value), is prognostic for regeneration in the subject.
                In another aspect, the invention provides methods for prognostic evaluation of a patient
   following implantation or administration of a cell population, admixture, or construct described
   herein. In one embodiment, the method includes the steps of (a) obtaining a patient biological
   sample; and (b) detecting stem cell marker expression in the biological sample, wherein stem cell
25 marker expression is prognostic for regeneration of the native kidney in the patient. In some
   embodiments, increased stem cell marker expression in the patient biological sample relative to a
   control sample (or a control reference value) is prognostic for regeneration in the subject. In some
   embodiments, decreased stem cell marker expression in the patient sample relative to the control
   sample (or control reference value) is not prognostic for regeneration in the subject. The patient
30 sample may be a test sample comprising a biopsy. The patient sample may be a bodily fluid, such as
   blood or urine.
                In one other aspect, the present invention provides prognostic methods for monitoring
   regeneration of a native kidney following administration or implantation of a cell population,
   admixture, or construct described herein to the subject, in which a non-invasive method is used. As
35 an alternative to a tissue biopsy, a regenerative outcome in the subject receiving treatment can be
   assessed from examination of a bodily fluid, e.g., urine. It has been discovered that microvesicles
                                                         -40
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   obtained from subject-derived urine sources contain certain components including, without limitation,
   specific proteins and miRNAs that are ultimately derived from the renal cell populations impacted by
   treatment with the cell populations of the present invention. These components may include factors
   involved in stem cell replication and differentiation, apoptosis, inflammation and immuno
 5 modulation.              A temporal analysis of microvesicle-associated miRNA/protein expression patterns
   allows for continuous monitoring of regenerative outcomes within the kidney of subjects receiving the
   cell populations, admixtures, or constructs of the present invention. Example 17 describes exemplary
   protocols for analysis of the urine of subjects.
                These kidney-derived vesicles and/or the luminal contents of kidney derived vesicles shed
10 into the urine of a subject may be analyzed for biomarkers indicative of regenerative outcome.
                In one embodiment, the present invention provides methods of assessing whether a kidney
   disease (KD) patient is responsive to treatment with a therapeutic. The method may include the step
   of determining or detecting the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in a test sample obtained
   from a KD patient treated with the therapeutic, as compared to or relative to the amount of vesicles in
15 a control sample, wherein a higher or lower amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the test
   sample as compared to the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the control sample is
   indicative of the treated patient' s responsivenessto treatment with the therapeutic.
                The present invention also provides a method of monitoring the efficacy of treatment with a
   therapeutic in a KD patient. In one embodiment, the method includes the step of determining or
20 detecting the amount of vesicles in a test sample obtained from a KD patient treated with the
   therapeutic, as compared to or relative to the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in a control
   sample, wherein a higher or lower amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the test sample as
   compared to the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the control sample is indicative of the
   efficacy of treatment with the therapeutic in the KD patient.
25              The present invention also provides a method of identifying an agent as a therapeutic
   effective to treat kidney disease (KD) in a patient subpopulation. In one embodiment, the method
   includes the step of determining a correlation between efficacy of the agent and the presence of an
   amount of vesicles in samples from the patient subpopulation as compared to the amount of vesicles
   or their luminal contents in a sample obtained from a control sample, wherein a higher or lower
30 amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the samples from the patient subpopulation as
   compared to the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in the control sample is indicative that
   the agent is effective to treat KD in the patient subpopulation.
                The present invention provides a method of identifying a patient subpopulation for which an
   agent is effective to treat kidney disease (KD). In one embodiment, the method includes the step of
35 determining a correlation between efficacy of the agent and the presence of an amount of vesicles or
   their luminal contents in samples from the patient subpopulation as compared to the amount of
                                                          -41
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   vesicles or their luminal contents in a sample obtained from a control sample, wherein a higher or
   lower amount of vesicles in the samples from the patient subpopulation as compared to the amount of
   vesicles or their luminal contents in the control sample is indicative that the agent is effective to treat
   KD in the patient subpopulation.
 5              The determining or detecting step may include analyzing the amount of miRNA or other
   secreted products that may exist in the test sample (see Example 17).
                The non-invasive prognostic methods may include the step of obtaining a urine sample from
   the subject before and/or after administration or implantation of a cell population, admixture, or
   construct described herein. Vesicles and other secreted products may be isolated from the urine
10 samples using standard techniques including without limitation, centriguation to remove unwanted
   debris (Zhou et al. 2008. Kidney Int. 74(5):613-621; Skog et al. U.S. Published Patent Application
   No. 20110053157, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                The present invention relates to non-invasive methods to detect regenerative outcome in a
   subject following treatment. The methods involve detection of vesicles or their luminal contents in
15 urine from a treated subject. The luminal contents may be one or more miRNAs. The detection of
   combinations or panels of the individual miRNAs may be suitable for such prognostic methods.
   Exemplary combinations include two or more of the following: miR-24; miR-195; miR-871; miR
   30b-5p; miR-19b; miR-99a;              miR-429; let-7f; miR-200a;       miR-324-5p; miR-10a-5p;     and any
   combination thereof. In one embodiment, the combination of miRNAs may include 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
20 9, 10, 11, or more individual miRNAs. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other
   miRNAs and combinations of miRNAs may be suitable for use in such prognostic methods. Sources
   of additional miRNAs include miRBase at http://mirbase.org, which is hosted and maintained in the
   Faculty of Life Sciences at the University of Manchester.
                Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the prognostic methods for detecting regeneration
25 may be suitable for subjects treated with other therapeutics known in the art, apart from the cell
   populations and constructs described herein.
                In some embodiments, the determining step comprises the use of a software program
   executed by a suitable processor for the purpose of (i) measuring the differential level of marker
   expression (or vesicles/vesicle contents) in a test sample and a control; and/or (ii) analyzing the data
30 obtained from measuring differential level of marker expression in a test sample and a control.
   Suitable software and processors are well known in the art and are commercially available. The
   program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible medium such as CD-ROM, a floppy disk,
   a hard drive, a DVD, or a memory associated with the processor, but persons of ordinary skill in the
   art will readily appreciate that the entire program or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a
35 device other than a processor, and/or embodied in firmware and/or dedicated hardware in a well
   known manner.
                                                           -42
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                 Following the determining step, the measurement results, findings, diagnoses, predictions
    and/or treatment recommendations                  are typically recorded and communicated to technicians,
   physicians and/or patients, for example. In certain embodiments, computers will be used to
    communicate such information to interested parties, such as, patients and/or the attending physicians.
 5 In some embodiments, the assays will be performed or the assay results analyzed in a country or
   jurisdiction which differs from the country or jurisdiction to which the results or diagnoses are
    communicated.
                 In a preferred embodiment, a prognosis, prediction and/or treatment recommendation based
    on the level of marker expression measured in a test subject having a differential level of marker
10  expression is communicated to the subject as soon as possible after the assay is completed and the
   prognosis            and/or prediction      is generated. The results    and/or related   information may be
    communicated to the subject by the subject's treating physician. Alternatively, the results may be
    communicated directly to a test subject by any means of communication, including writing, electronic
    forms of communication, such as email, or telephone. Communication may be facilitated by use of a
15  computer, such as in case of email communications. In certain embodiments, the communication
    containing            results     of a prognostic   test and/or conclusions   drawn   from    and/or treatment
   recommendations based on the test, may be generated and delivered automatically to the subject using
    a combination of computer hardware and software which will be familiar to artisans skilled in
   telecommunications. One example of a healthcare-oriented communications system is described in
20  U.S. Pat. No. 6,283,761; however, the present invention is not limited to methods which utilize this
   particular communications system. In certain embodiments of the methods of the invention, all or
    some of the method steps, including the assaying of samples, prognosis and/or prediction of
   regeneration, and communicating of assay results or prognoses, may be carried out in diverse (e.g.,
    foreign) jurisdictions.
25               In another aspect, the prognostic methods described herein provide information to an
    interested party concerning the regenerative success of the implantation or administration.
                 In all embodiments, the methods of providing a regenerated kidney to a subject in need of
    such treatment as described herein may include the post-implantation step of prognostic evaluation of
   regeneration as described above.
30
                 Methods and Routes of Administration
                 The cell preparations and/or constructs of the instant invention can be administered alone or
    in combination with other bioactive components.
                 The therapeutically effective amount of the renal cell populations or admixtures of renal cell
35 populations described herein can range from the maximum number of cells that is safely received by
   the subject to the minimum number of cells necessary for treatment of kidney disease, e.g.,
                                                               -43
    9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   stabilization, reduced rate-of-decline, or improvement of one or more kidney functions. In certain
   embodiments, the methods of the present invention provide the administration of renal cell
   populations or admixtures of renal cell populations described herein at a dosage of about 10,000
   cells/kg, about 20,000 cells/kg, about 30,000 cells/kg, about 40,000 cells/kg, about 50,000 cells/kg,
 5 about 100,000 cells/kg, about 200,000 cells/kg, about 300,000 cells/kg, about 400,000 cells/kg, about
   500,000 cells/kg, about 600,000 cells/kg, about 700,000 cells/kg, about 800,000 cells/kg, about
   900,000 cells/kg, about 1.1x10 6 cells/kg, about 1.2x10   6
                                                               cells/kg, about 1.3x10 6 cells/kg, about 1.4x10   6
   cells/kg, about 1.5x10 6 cells/kg, about 1.6x10 6 cells/kg, about 1.7x10 6 cells/kg, about 1.8x10 6 cells/kg,
   about 1.9x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.1x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.1x10     6
                                                                        cells/kg, about 1.2x10 6 cells/kg, about
10 2.3x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.4x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.5x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.6x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.7x10 6
   cells/kg, about 2.8x10 6 cells/kg, about 2.9x10  6
                                                      cells/kg, about 3x10    6
                                                                                cells/kg, about 3.1x10 6 cells/kg,
   about 3.2x10 6 cells/kg, about 3.3x10 6 cells/kg, about 3.4x10     6
                                                                        cells/kg, about 3.5x10 6 cells/kg, about
                                                                                                                 6
   3.6x10 6 cells/kg, about 3.7x10 6 cells/kg, about 3.8x10 6 cells/kg, about 3.9x10 6 cells/kg, about 4x10
   cells/kg, about 4. xI106 cells/kg, about 4.2x106 cells/kg, about 4.3x 106 cells/kg, about 4.4x 106 cells/kg,
15 about 4.5x10 6 cells/kg, about 4.6x10 6 cells/kg, about 4.7x10 6 cells/kg, about 4.8x10 6 cells/kg, about
   4.9x10 6 cells/kg, or about 5x10 6 cells/kg. In another embodiment, the dosage of cells to a subject may
   be a single dosage or a single dosage plus additional dosages. In other embodiments, the dosages may
   be provided by way of a construct as described herein. In other embodiments, the dosage of cells to a
   subject may be calculated based on the estimated renal mass or functional renal mass.
20              The therapeutically effective amount of the renal cell populations or admixtures thereof
   described herein can be suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Such a
   carrier includes, but is not limited to basal culture medium plus 1% serum albumin, saline, buffered
   saline, dextrose, water, collagen, alginate, hyaluronic acid, fibrin glue, polyethyleneglycol,
   polyvinylalcohol, carboxymethylcellulose and combinations thereof. The formulation should suit the
25 mode of administration. Accordingly, the invention provides a use of renal cell populations or
   admixtures thereof, for example, the B2 cell population alone or admixed with the B3 and/or B4 or
   B4' cell population, for the manufacture of a mediament to treat kidney disease in a subject. In some
   embodiments, the medicament further comprises recombinant polypeptides, such as growth factors,
   chemokines or cytokines. In further embodiments, the medicaments comprise a human kidney
30 derived cell population. The cells used to manufacture the medicaments can be isolated, derived, or
   enriched using any of the variations provided for the methods described herein.
                The renal cell preparation(s), or admixtures thereof, or compositions are formulated in
   accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for administration to
   human beings. Typically, compositions for intravenous administration, intra-arterial administration or
35 administration within the kidney capsule, for example, are solutions in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer.
   Where necessary, the composition can also include a local anesthetic to ameliorate any pain at the site
                                                       -44
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   of the injection. Generally, the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit
   dosage form, for example, as a cryopreserved concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as
   an ampoule indicating the quantity of active agent. When the composition is to be administered by
   infusion, it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or
 5 saline. Where the composition is administered by injection, an ampoule of sterile water for injection
   or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.
                Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are determined in part by the particular composition
   being administered, as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition.
   Accordingly, there are a wide variety of suitable formulations of pharmaceutical compositions (see,
10 e.g., Alfonso R Gennaro (ed), Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, formerly
   Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences 20th ed., Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 2003, incorporated
   herein by reference in its entirety). The pharmaceutical compositions are generally formulated as
   sterile, substantially isotonic and in full compliance with all Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)
   regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
15              One aspect of the invention further provides a pharmaceutical formulation, comprising       a
   renal cell preparation of the invention, for example, the B2 cell preparation alone or incombination
   with the B3 and/or B4 or B4' cell preparation, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some
   embodiments, the formulation comprises from 104 to 109 mammalian kidney-derived cells.
                In one aspect, the present invention provides methods of providing one or more of the cell
20 populations described herein, including admixtures, to a subject in need. In one embodiment, the
   source of the cell population(s) may be autologous or allogeneic, syngeneic (autogeneic or isogeneic),
   and any combination thereof. In instances where the source is not autologous, the methods may
   include the administration of an immunosuppressant agent.              Suitable immunosuppressant drugs
   include, without limitation, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, mizoribine, ciclosporin, tacrolimus
25 hydrate,        chlorambucil,     lobenzarit disodium, auranofin, alprostadil, gusperimus  hydrochloride,
   biosynsorb, muromonab, alefacept, pentostatin, daclizumab, sirolimus, mycophenolate mofetil,
   leflonomide, basiliximab, dornase g bindarid, clad ribine, pimecrolimus, ilodecakin, cedelizumab,
   efalizumab, everolimus, anisperimus, gavilimomab, faralimomab, clofarabine, rapamycin, siplizumab,
   saireito, LDP-03, CD4, SR-43551, SK&F-106615, IDEC-114, IDEC-131, FTY-720, TSK-204, LF
30 080299, A-86281, A-802715, GVH-313, HMR-1279, ZD-7349, IPL-423323, CBP-1011, MT-1345,
   CNI-1493, CBP-2011, J-695, LJP-920, L-732531, ABX-RB2, AP-1903, IDPS, BMS-205820, BMS
   224818, CTLA4-1g, ER-49890, ER-38925, ISAtx-247, RDP-58, PNU-156804, LJP-1082, TMC-95A,
   TV-4710, PTR-262-MG, and AGI-1096 (see U.S. Patent No. 7,563,822). Those of ordinary skill in
   the art will appreciate other suitable immunosuppressant drugs.
35              The treatment methods of the subject invention involve the delivery of an isolated renal cell
   population, or admixture thereof, into individuals. In one embodiment, direct administration of cells
                                                          -45
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   to the site of intended benefit is preferred. In one embodiment, the cell preparations, or admixtures
   thereof, of the instant invention are delivered to an individual in a delivery vehicle.
                A subject in need may also be treated by in vivo contacting of a native kidney with products
   secreted from one or more enriched renal cell populations, and/or an admixture or construct
 5 containing the same. The step of contacting a native kidney in vivo with secreted products may be
   accomplished through the use/administration of a population of secreted products from cell culture
   media, e.g., conditioned media, or by implantation of an enriched cell population, and admixture, or a
   construct capable of secreting the products in vivo.         The step of in vivo contacting provides a
   regenerative effect to the native kidney.
10              A variety of means for administering cells and/or secreted products to subjects will, in view
   of this specification, be apparent to those of skill in the art. Such methods include injection of the
   cells into a target site in a subject. Cells and/or secreted products can be inserted into a delivery
   device or vehicle, which facilitates introduction by injection or implantation into the subjects. In
   certain embodiments, the delivery vehicle can include natural materials.                 In certain other
15 embodiments, the delivery vehicle can include synthetic materials. In one embodiment, the delivery
   vehicle provides a structure to mimic or appropriately fit into the organ' s architecture.         h other
   embodiments, the delivery vehicle is fluid-like in nature. Such delivery devices can include tubes,
   e.g., catheters, for injecting cells and fluids into the body of a recipient subject. In a preferred
   embodiment, the tubes additionally have a needle, e.g., a syringe, through which the cells of the
20 invention can be introduced into the subject at a desired location. In some embodiments, mammalian
   kidney-derived cell populations are formulated for administration into a blood vessel via a catheter
   (where the term "catheter" is intended to include any of the various tube-like systems for delivery of
   substances to a blood vessel). Alternatively, the cells can be inserted into or onto a biomaterial or
   scaffold, including but not limited to textiles, such as weaves, knits, braids, meshes, and non-wovens,
25 perforated films, sponges and foams, and beads, such as solid or porous beads, microparticles,
   nanoparticles, and the like (e.g., Cultispher-S gelatin beads - Sigma). The cells can be prepared for
   delivery in a variety of different forms. For example, the cells can be suspended in a solution or gel.
   Cells can be mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent in which the cells of the
   invention remain viable. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents include saline, aqueous
30 buffer solutions, solvents and/or dispersion media. The use of such carriers and diluents is well known
   in the art. The solution is preferably sterile and fluid, and will often be isotonic. Preferably, the
   solution is stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and preserved against the
   contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi through the use of, for example,
   parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. One of skill in the art will
35 appreciate that the delivery vehicle used in the delivery of the cell populations and admixtures thereof
   of the instant invention can include combinations of the above-mentioned characteristics.
                                                       -46
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Modes of administration of the isolated renal cell population(s), for example, the B2 cell
   population alone or admixed with B4' and/or B3, in&ude, but are not limited to, systemic, intra-renal
   (e.g., parenchymal), intravenous or intra-arterial injection and injection directly into the tissue at the
   intended site of activity.        Additional modes of administration to be used in accordance with the
 5 present invention include single or multiple injection(s) via direct laparotomy, via direct laparoscopy,
   transabdominal, or percutaneous.            Still yet additional modes of administration to be used in
   accordance with the present invention include, for example, retrograde and ureteropelvic infusion.
   Surgical means of administration include one-step procedures such as, but not limited to, partial
   nephrectomy and construct implantation, partial nephrectomy, partial pyelectomy, vascularization
10 with omentum  peritoneum, multifocal biopsy needle tracks, cone or pyramidal, to cylinder, and
   renal pole-like replacement, as well as two-step procedures including, for example, organoid-internal
   bioreactor for replanting.        In one embodiment, the admixtures of cells are delivered via the same
   route at the same time. In another embodiment, each of the cell compositions comprising the
   controlled admixture are delivered separately to specific locations or via specific methodologies,
15 either simultaneously or in a temporally-controlled manner, by one or more of the methods described
   herein.
                The appropriate cell implantation dosage in humans can be determined from existing
   information relating to either the activity of the cells, for example EPO production, or extrapolated
   from dosing studies conducted in preclinical studies. From in vitro culture and in vivo animal
20 experiments, the amount of cells can be quantified and used in calculating an appropriate dosage of
   implanted material. Additionally, the patient can be monitored to determine if additional implantation
   can be made or implanted material reduced accordingly.
                One or more other components can be added to the cell populations and admixtures thereof of
   the instant invention, including selected extracellular matrix components, such as one or more types
25 of collagen or hyaluronic acid known in the art, and/or growth factors, platelet-rich plasma and drugs.
                Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the various formulations and methods of
   adminstration suitable for the secreted products described herein.
                Kits
                The instant invention further includes kits comprising the polymeric matrices and scaffolds of
30 the invention and related materials, and/or cell culture media and instructions for use.               The
   instructions for use may contain, for example, instructions for culture of the cells or administration of
   the cells and/or cell products. In one embodiment, the present invention provides a kit comprising a
   scaffold as described herein and instructions. In yet another embodiment, the kit includes an agent for
   detection of marker expression, reagents for use of the agent, and instructions for use. This kit may
35 be used for the purpose of determing the regenerative prognosis of a native kidney in a subject
   following the implantation or administration of a cell population, an admixture, or a construct
                                                          -47
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   described herein.                 The kit may also be used to determine the biotherapeutic efficacy of a cell
   population, admixture, or construct described herein.
                Reports
                The methods of this invention, when practiced for commercial purposes generally produce a
 5 report or summary of the regenerative prognosis. The methods of this invention will produce a report
   comprising a prediction of the probable course or outcome of regeneration before and after any
   administration or implantation of a cell population, an admixture, or a construct described herein.
   The report may include information on any indicator pertinent to the prognosis. The methods and
   reports of this invention can further include storing the report in a database. Alternatively, the method
10 can further create a record in a database for the subject and populate the record with data. In one
   embodiment the report is a paper report, in another embodiment the report is an auditory report, in
   another embodiment the report is an electronic record. It is contemplated that the report is provided to
   a physician and/or the patient. The receiving of the report can further include establishing a network
   connection to a server computer that includes the data and report and requesting the data and report
15 from the server computer. The methods provided by the present invention may also be automated in
   whole or in part.
                All patents, patent applications, and literature references cited in the present specification are
   hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                The following examples are offered for illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to
20 limit the scope of the present invention in any way.
                                                          EXAMPLES
   EXAMPLE 1 - Isolation & Characterization of Bioresponsive Renal Cells
                A case of idiopathic progressive chronic kidney disease (CKD) with anemia in an adult male
25 swine (Sus scrofa) provided fresh diseased kidney tissue for the assessment of cellular composition
   and characterization with direct comparison to age-matched normal swine kidney tissue. Histological
   examination of the kidney tissue at the time of harvest confirmed renal disease characterized by
   severe diffuse chronic interstitial fibrosis and crescentic glomerulonephritis with multifocal fibrosis.
   Clinical chemistry confirmed azotemia (elevation of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine), and
30 mild anemia (mild reduction in hematocrit and depressed hemoglobin levels). Cells were isolated,
   expanded, and characterized from both diseased and normal kidney tissue. As shown in Figure 1 of
   Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), a Gomori' s
   Trichrome stain highlighs the fibrosis (blue staining indicated by arrows) in the diseased kidney tissue
   compared to the normal kidney tissue. Functional tubular cells, expressing cubulin:megalin and
35 capable of receptor-mediated albumin transport, were propagated from both normal and diseased
   kidney tissue. Erythropoietin (EPO)-expressing cells were also present in the cultures and were
                                                              -48
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   retained through multiple passages and freeze/thaw cycles. Furthermore, molecular analyses
   confirmed that the EPO-expressing cells from both normal and diseased tissue responded to hypoxic
   conditions in vitro with HIFla-driven induction of EPO and other hypoxia-regulated gene targets,
   including vEGF.                 Cells were isolated from the porcine kidney tissue via enzymatic digestion with
 5 collagenase + dispase, and were also isolated in separate experiments by performing simple
   mechanical digestion and explant culture. At passage two, explant-derived cell cultures containing
   epo-expressing cells were subjected to both atmospheric (21%) and varying hypoxic (<5%) culture
   conditions to determine whether exposure to hypoxia culminated in upregulation of EPO gene
   expression. As noted with rodent cultures (see Example 3), the normal pig displayed oxygen
10 dependent expression and regulation of the EPO gene. Surprisingly, despite the uremic / anemic state
   of the CKD pig (Hematocrit <34, Creatinine >9.0) EPO expressing cells were easily isolated and
   propagated from the tissue and expression of the EPO gene remained hypoxia regulated, as shown in
   Figure 2 of of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). As
   shown in Figure 3 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its
15 entirety), cells in the propagated cultures demonstrated the ability to self-organize into tubule-like
   structures.           As shown in Figure 4 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by
   reference in its entirety), the presence of functional tubular cells in the culture (at passage 3) was
   confirmed by observing receptor-mediated uptake of FITC-conjugated Albumin by the cultured cells.
   The green dots (indicated by thin white arrows) represent endocytosed fluorescein-conjugated
20 albumin which is mediated by tubular cell-specific receptors, Megalin and Cubilin, indicating protein
   reabosroption by functional tubular cells.               The blue staining (indicated by thick white arrows) is
   Hoescht-stained nuclei. Taken together, these data suggest that functional tubular and endocrine cells
   can be isolated and propagated from porcine renal tissues, even in renal tissues that have been
   severely compromised with CKD. Furthermore, these findings support the advancement of autologous
25 cell-based therapeutic products for the treatment of CKD.
                In addition, EPO-producing cells were isolated enzymatically from normal adult human
   kidney (as described above in Example 1). As shown in Figure 5 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328
   (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), the isolation procedure resulted in more relative
   EPO expression after isolation than in the initial tissue. As shown in Figure 6 of Presnell et al.
30 WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), it is possible to maintain the
   human EPO producing cells in culture with retention of EPO gene expression. Human cells were
   cultured/propagated on plain tissue-culture treated plastic or plastic that had been coated with some
   extracellular matrix, such as, for instance, fibronectin or collagen, and all were found to support EPO
   expression over time.
35
                                                               -49
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   EXAMPLE 2 - Isolation & enrichment of specific bioreactive renal cells
                Kidney cell isolation: Briefly, batches of 10, 2-week-old male Lewis rat kidneys were
   obtained from a commercial supplier (Hilltop Lab Animals Inc.) and shipped overnight in Viaspan
   preservation medium at a temperature around 4'C. All steps described herein were carried out in a
 5 biological safety cabinet (BSC) to preserve sterility. The kidneys were washed in Hank' s balanced
   salt solution (HBSS) 3 times to rinse out the Viaspan preservation medium. After the third wash the
   remaining kidney capsules were removed as well as any remaining stromaltissue. The major calyx
   was also removed using micro dissection techniques.            The kidneys were then finely minced into a
   slurry using a sterile scalpel. The slurry was then transferred into a 50ml conical centrifuge tube and
10 weighed. A small sample was collected for RNA and placed into an RNAse-free sterile 1.5ml micro
   centrifuge tube and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. Once frozen, it was then transferred to the -80
   degree freezer until analysis. The tissue weight of 10 juvenile kidneys equaled approximately 1 gram.
   Based on the weight of the batch, the digestion medium was adjusted to deliver 20mls of digestion
   medium per 1 gram of tissue. Digestion buffer for this procedure contained 4 Units of Dispase
15  1(Stem Cell Tech) in HBSS, 300Units/ml of Collagenase type IV (Worthington) with 5mM CaCl 2
   (Sigma).
                The appropriate volume of pre-warmed digestion buffer was added to the tube, which was
   then sealed and placed on a rocker in a 37 0 C incubator for 20 minutes. This first digestion step
   removes many red blood cells and enhances the digestion of the remaining tissue. After 20 minutes,
20 the tube was removed and placed in the BSC. The tissue was allowed to settle at the bottom of the
   tube and then the supernatant was removed. The remaining tissue was then supplemented with fresh
   digestion buffer equaling the starting volume.          The tube was again placed on a rocker in a 37 0 C
   incubator for an additional 30 minutes.
                After 30 minutes the digestion mixture was pipetted through a 70tm cell strainer (BD Falcon)
25 into an equal volume of neutralization buffer (DMEM w/ 10% FBS) to stop the digestion reaction.
   The cell suspension was then washed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 min. After centrifugation, the
   pellet was then re-suspended in 20mls KSFM medium and a sample acquired for cell counting and
   viability assessment using trypan blue exclusion. Once the cell count was calculated, 1 million cells
   were collected for RNA, washed in PBS, and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.             The remaining cell
30 suspension was brought up to 50mls with KSFM medium and washed again by centrifugation at
   300xg for 5 minutes. After washing, the cell pellet was re-suspended in a concentration of 15 million
   cells per ml of KSFM.
                Five milliliters of kidney cell suspension were then added to 5mls of 30% (w/v) Optiprep* in
    15ml conical centrifuge tubes (BD Falcon) and mixed by inversion 6 times. This formed a final
35 mixture of 15% (w/v) of Optiprep. Post inversion, tubes were carefully layered with 1 mL PBS. The
   tubes were centrifuged at 800 x g for 15 minutes without brake. After centrifugation, the tubes were
                                                          -50
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   removed and a cell band was formed at the top of the mixing gradient. There was also a pellet
   containing red blood cells, dead cells, and a small population of live cells that included some small
   less granular cells, some epo-producing cells, some tubular cells, and some endothelial cells. The
   band was carefully removed using a pipette and transferred to another 15ml conical tube.              The
 5 gradient medium was removed by aspiration and the pellet was collected by re-suspension in 1 ml
   KSFM. The band cells and pellet cells were then recombined and re-suspended in at least 3 dilutions
   of the collected band volume using KSFM and washed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 minutes. Post
   washing, the cells were re-suspended in 20mls of KSFM and a sample for cell counting was collected.
   Once the cell count was calculated using trypan blue exclusion, 1 million cells were collected for an
10 RNA sample, washed in PBS, and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.
                Pre-Culture ' Cleanup'      to enhance viability and culture performance ofSpecific Bioactive
   Renal Cells Using Density Gradient Separation: To yield a clean, viable population of cells for
   culture, a cell suspension was first generated as described above in "Kidney Cell Isolation". As an
   optional step and as a means of cleaning up the initial preparation, up to 100 million total cells,
15 suspended in sterile isotonic buffer were mixed thoroughly 1:1 with an equal volume of 30%
   Optiprep@ prepared at room temperature from stock 60% (w/v) iodixanol (thus yielding a final 15%
   w/v Optiprep solution) and mixed thoroughly by inversion six times. After mixing, lml PBS buffer
   was carefully layered on top of the mixed cell suspension. The gradient tubes were then carefully
   loaded into the centrifuge, ensuring appropriate balance. The gradient tubes were centrifuged at 800 x
20 g for 15 minutes at 25'C without brake. The cleaned-up cell population (containing viable and
   functional collecting duct, tubular, endocrine, glomerular, and vascular cells) segmented between 6%
   and 8% (w/v) Optiprep@, corresponding to a density between 1.025 - 1.045 g/mL. Other cells and
   debris pelleted to the bottom of the tube.
                Kidney Cell Culture: The combined cell band and pellet were then plated in tissue culture
25 treated triple flasks (Nunc T500) or equivalent at a cell concentration of 30,000 cells per cm2 in
    150mls of a 50:50 mixture of DMEM(high glucose)/KSFM containing 5% (v/v)FBS, 2.5tg EGF,
   25mg          BPE,            IX  ITS (insulin/transferrin/sodium selenite    medium   supplement)    with
   antibiotic/antimycotic. The cells were cultured in a humidified 5% C02 incubator for 2-3 days,
   providing a 21% atmospheric oxygen level for the cells. After two days, the medium was changed
30 and the cultures were placed in 2% oxygen-level environment provided by a C02 /Nitrogen gas
   multigas humidified incubator (Sanyo) for 24hrs. Following the 24hr incubation, the cells were
   washed with 60mls of 1XPBS and then removed using 40mls 0.25% (w/v) trypsin/EDTA (Gibco).
   Upon removal, the cell suspension was neutralized with an equal volume of KSFM containing 10%
   FBS. The cells were then washed by centrifugation 300xg for 10 minutes. After washing, the cells
35 were re-suspended in 20mls of KSFM and transferred to a 50ml conical tube and a sample was
   collected for cell counting. Once the viable cell count was determined using trypan blue exclusion, 1
                                                             -51
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   million cells were collected for an RNA sample, washed in PBS, and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.
   The cells were washed again in PBS and collected by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 minutes. The
   washed cell pellet was re-suspended in KSFM at a concentration of 37.5 million cells/ml.
                Enriching for Specific Bioactive Renal Cells Using Density Step Gradient Separation:
 5 Cultured kidney cells, predominantly composed of renal tubular cells but containing small
   subpopulations of other cell types (collecting duct, glomerular, vascular, and endocrine) were
   separated into their component subpopulations using a density step gradient made from multiple
   concentrations w/v of iodixanol (Optiprep). The cultures were placed into a hypoxic environment for
   up to 24 hours prior to harvest and application to the gradient. A stepped gradient was created by
10 layering four different density mediums on top of each other in a sterile 15mL conical tube, placing
   the solution with the highest density on the bottom and layering to the least dense solution on the top.
   Cells were applied to the top of the step gradient and centrifuged, which resulted in segregation of the
   population into multiple bands based on size and granularity.
                Briefly, densities of 7, 11, 13, and 16% Optiprep (60% w/v lodixanol) were made using
15 KFSM medium as diluents. For example: for 50mls of 7%(w/v) Optiprep, 5.83mls of stock 60%
   (w/v) lodixanol was added to 44.17mls of KSFM medium and mixed well by inversion. A peristaltic
   pump (Master Flex L/S) loaded with sterile L/S 16 Tygon tubing connected to sterile capillary tubes
   was set to a flow rate of 2 ml per minute, and 2 mL of each of the four solutions was loaded into a
   sterile conical 15 mL tube, beginning with the 16% solution, followed by the 13 % solution, the 11%
20 solution, and the 7% solution. Finally, 2 mL of cell suspension containing 75 million cultured rodent
   kidney cells was loaded atop the step gradient (suspensions having been generated as described above
   in ' Kidney cell Culture' ). Importantly, as the pupiwas started to deliver the gradient solutions to the
   tube, care was taken to allow the fluid to flow slowly down the side of the tube at a 45' angle to
   insure that a proper interface formed between each layer of the gradient. The step gradients, loaded
25 with cells, were then centrifuged at 800 x g for 20 minutes without brake. After centrifugation, the
   tubes were carefully removed so as not to disturb each interface. Five distinct cell fractions resulted
   (4 bands and a pellet) (BI - B4, + Pellet) (see Figure IA, left conical tube). Each fraction was
   collected using either a sterile disposable bulb pipette or a 5ml pipette and characterized
   phenotypically and functionally (See Example 10 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328).        When rodent
30 kidney cell suspensions are subjected to step-gradient fractionation immediately after isolation, the
   fraction enriched for tubular cells (and containing some cells from the collecting duct) segments to a
   density between 1.062 - 1.088 g/mL. In contrast, when density gradient separation was performed
   after ex vivo culture, the fraction enriched for tubular cells (and containing some cells from the
   collecting duct) segmented to a density between 1.051 - 1.062 g/mL. Similarly, when rodent kidney
35 cell suspensions are subjected to step-gradient fractionation immediately after isolation, the fraction
   enriched for epo-producing cells, glomerular podocytes, and vascular cells ("B4") segregates at a
                                                        -52
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   density between 1.025 - 1.035 g/mL. In contrast, when density gradient separation was performed
   after ex vivo culture, the fraction enriched for epo-producing cells, glomerular podocytes, and vascular
   cells ("B4") segregated at a density between 1.073 - 1.091 g/mL. Importantly, the post-culture
   distribution of cells into both the "B2" and the "B4" fractions was enhanced by exposure (for a period
 5 of about 1 hour to a period of about 24 hours) of the cultures to a hypoxic culture environment
   (hypoxia being defined as <21% (atmospheric) oxygen levels prior to harvest and step-gradient
   procedures (additional details regarding hypoxia-effects on band distribution are provided in Example
   3).
                Each band was washed by diluting with 3x the volume of KSFM, mixed well, and centrifuged
10 for 5 minutes at 300 x g. Pellets were re-suspended in 2mls of KSFM and viable cells were counted
   using trypan blue exclusion and a hemacytometer. 1 million cells were collected for an RNA sample,
   washed in PBS, and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.             The cells from B2 and B4 were used for
   transplantation studies into uremic and anemic female rats, generated via a two-step 5/6 nephrectomy
   procedure at Charles River Laboratories. Characteristics of B4 were confirmed by quantitative real
15 time PCR, including oxygen-regulated expression of erythropoietin and vEGF, expression of
   glomerular markers (nephrin, podocin), and expression of vascular markers (PECAM). Phenotype of
   the ' B2'         fraction was confirmed via expression of Wadherin, N-Cadherin, and Aquaporin-2.        See
   Figures 49a and 49b of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328.
                Thus, use of the step gradient strategy allows not only the enrichment for a rare population of
20 epo-producing cells (B4), but also a means to generate relatively enriched fractions of functional
   tubular cells (B2) (see Figures 50 & 51 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328).               The step gradient
   strategy also allows EPO-producing and tubular cells to be separated from red blood cells, cellular
   debris, and other potentially undesirable cell types, such as large cell aggregates and certain types of
   immune cells.
25              The step gradient procedure may require tuning with regard to specific densities employed to
   provide good separation of cellular components. The preferred approach to tuning the gradient
   involves 1) running a continuous density gradient where from a high density at the bottom of the
   gradient (16-2l1% Optiprep, for example) to a relatively low density at the top of the gradient (5-1A0%,
   for example). Continuous gradients can be prepared with any standard density gradient solution
30 (Ficoll, Percoll, Sucrose, iodixanol) according to standard methods (Axis Shield). Cells of interest are
   loaded onto the continuous gradient and centrifuged at 800xG for 20 minutes without brake. Cells of
   similar size and granularity tend to segregate together in the gradients, such that the relative position
   in the gradient can be measured, and the specific gravity of the solution at that position also measured.
   Thus, subsequently, a defined step gradient can be derived that focuses isolation of particular cell
35 populations based on their ability to transverse the density gradient under specific conditions. Such
   optimization may need to be employed when isolating cells from unhealthy vs. healthy tissue, or
                                                          -53
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   when isolating specific cells from different species. For example, optimization was conducted on both
   canine and human renal cell cultures, to insure that the specific B2 and B4 subpopulations that were
   identified in the rat were isolatable from the other species. The optimal gradient for isolation of rodent
   B2 and B4 subpopulations consists of (w/v) of 7%, 11%, 13%, and 16% Optiprep. The optimal
 5 gradient for isolation of canine B2 and B4 subpopulations consists of (w/v) of 7%, 10%, 11%, and
   16% Optiprep. The optimal gradient for isolation of human B2 and B4 subpopulations consists of
   (w/v) 7%, 9%, 11%, 16%. Thus, the density range for localization of B2 and B4 from cultured rodent,
   canine, and human renal cells is provided in Table 2.1.
                Table 2.1. Species Density Ranges.
                                                     Species Density Ranges g/ml
   Step Gradient Band                    Rodent                Canine                Human
   B2                                1.045-1.063g/ml       1.045-1.058g/ml       1.045-1.052g/ml
   B4                                1.073-1.091g/ml       1.063-1.091g/ml       1.063-1.091g/ml
10
   EXAMPLE 3 - Low-oxy2en culture prior to 2radient affects band distribution, composition,
   and gene expression
                To determine the effect of oxygen conditions on distribution and composition of prototypes
   B2 and B4, neokidney cell preparations from different species were exposed to different oxygen
15 conditions prior to the gradient step. A rodent neo-kidney augmentation (NKA) cell preparation
   (RK069) was established using standard procedures for rat cell isolation and culture initiation, as
   described supra. All flasks were cultured for 2-3 days in 21 % (atmospheric) oxygen conditions.
   Media was changed and half of the flasks were then relocated to an oxygen-controlled incubator set to
   2% oxygen, while the remaining flasks were kept at the 21 % oxygen conditions, for an additional 24
20 hours. Cells were then harvested from each set of conditions using standard enzymatic harvesting
   procedures described supra. Step gradients were prepared according to standard procedures and the
   "normoxic" (21 % oxygen) and "hypoxic" (2% oxygen) cultures were harvested separately and
   applied side-by-side to identical step gradients. (Figure 2). While 4 bands and a pellet were generated
   in both conditions, the distribution of the cells throughout the gradient was different in 21 % and 2%
25 oxygen-cultured batches (Table 1). Specifically, the yield of B2 was increased with hypoxia, with a
   concomitant decrease in B3. Furthermore, the expression of B4-specific genes (such as
   erythropoietin) was enhanced in the resulting gradient generated from the hypoxic-cultured cells
   (Figure 73 of Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328).
                A canine NKA cell preparation (DKO08) was established using standard procedures for dog
30 cell isolation and culture (analogous to rodent isolation and culture procedures), as described supra.
   All flasks were cultured for 4 days in 21 % (atmospheric) oxygen conditions, then a subset of flasks
   were transferred to hypoxia (2%) for 24 hours while a subset of the flasks were maintained at 21%.
   Subsequently, each set of flasks was harvested and subjected to identical step gradients (Figure 3).
                                                           -54
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Similar to the rat results (Example 1), the hypoxic-cultured dog cells distributed throughout the
   gradient differently than the atmospheric oxygen-cultured dog cells (Table 3.1). Again, the yield of
   B2 was increased with hypoxic exposure prior to gradient, along with a concomitant decrease in
   distribution into B3.
 5              Table 3.1.
                                     Rat (RK069)                        Dog (DKO08)
                                     2%02           21%02               2%02          21%02
               B31                   0.77%          0.24%               1.20%         0.70%
               B2                    88.50%         79.90%              64.80%        36.70%
               B3                    10.50%          19.80%             29.10%        40.20%
               B4                    0.23%          0.17%               4.40%         21.90%
                The above data show that pre-gradient exposure to hypoxia enhances composition of B2 as
   well as the distribution of specific specialized cells (erythropoietin-producing cells, vascular cells, and
   glomerular cells) into B4.                Thus, hypoxic culture, followed by density-gradient separation as
10 described supra, is an effective way to generate ' B2' and ' B4' lcpbpulations, across species.
   EXAMPLE 4 - Isolation of tubular/2lomerular cells from human kidney
                Tubular and glomerular cells were isolated and propagated from normal human kidney tissue
   by the enzymatic isolation methods described throughout. By the gradient method described above,
15 the tubular cell fraction was enriched ex vivo and after culture. As shown in Figure 68 of of Presnell
   et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), phenotypic attributes were
   maintained in isolation and propagation. Tubular cell function, assessed via uptake of labeled
   albumin, was also retained after repeated passage and cryopreservation. Figure 69 of Presnell et al.
   WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) shows that when tubular-enriched
20 and tubular-depleted populations were cultured in 3D dynamic culture, a marked increase in
   expression of tubular marker, cadherin, was expressed in the tubular-enriched population. This
   confirms that the enrichment of tubular cells can be maintained beyond the initial enrichment when
   the cells are cultured in a 3D dynamic environment.
25 EXAMPLE 5 - Further separation of EPO-producin2 cells via flow cytometry
                The same cultured population of kidney cells described above in Example 2 was subjected to
   flow cytometric analysis to examine forward scatter and side scatter. The small, less granular EPO
   producing cell population was discernable (8.15%) and was separated via positive selection of the
   small, less granular population using the sorting capability of a flow cytometer (see Figure 70 of
30 Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328 (incorporated herein by reference in its entirety)).
                                                            -55
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Example 6 - Characterization of an unfractionated mixture of renal cells isolated from an
   autoimmune 2lomerulonephritis patient sample
                An unfractionated mixture of renal cells was isolated, as described above, from an
 5 autoimmune glomerulonephritis patient sample. To determine the unbiased genotypic composition of
   specific subpopulations of renal cells isolated and expanded from kidney tissue, quantitative real time
   PCR (qrtpcr) analysis (Brunskill et al., supra 2008) was employed to identify differential cell-type
   specific and pathway-specific gene expression patterns among the cell subfractions. As shown in
   Table 6.1, HK20 is an autoimmune glomerulonephritis patient sample. Table 6.2 shows that cells
10 generated from HK20 are lacking glomerular cells, as determined by qRTPCR.
   EXAMPLE 7 - Genetic profilin2 of therapeutically relevant renal bioactive cell populations
   isolated from a case of focal se2mental 2lomerulosclerosis
                To determine the unbiased genotypic composition of specific subpopulations of renal cells
15 isolated and expanded from kidney tissue, quantitative real time PCR (qrtpcr) analysis (Brunskill et
   al., supra 2008) was employed to identify differential cell-type-specific and pathway-specific gene
   expression patterns among the cell subfractions. Human preparation HK023, derived from a case of
   focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in which a large portion of glomeruli had been destroyed,
   was evaluated for presence of glomerular cells in the B4 fraction at the time of harvest. In brief,
20 unfractionated (UNFX) cultures were generated (Aboushwareb et al., supra 2008) and maintained
   independently from each of (4) core biopsies taken from the kidney using standard biopsy procedures.
   After (2) passages of UNFX ex vivo, cells were harvested and subjected to density gradient methods
   (as in Example 8) to generate subfractions, including subfraction B4, which is known to be enriched
   for endocrine, vascular, and glomerular cells based on work conducted in rodent, dog, and other
25 human specimens.
                                                         -56
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

             0                c)
        - E                      L
    tii   -i
    0      Ez
    CL    E
    m 8z
        C.)-                  c
             L
               Gc             ^
                              c
        =                     ca
        m.
           cco
:3
cc
        Cc-57
   987138 1(GH~ttesi P1833AU.

                     t   aso       c-.
                  c     -5   .c     5)       Cl=
                       aE    S   0        =3 S
                                    1E
                   0             8)
                  QD            Cl?
                  00            (.D
                  CD            CO
                  m E0
                   o-C          -c     g
                                         -58
   P1833AU.
987138_1(GH~ttes)

                                   i2     __O
                                   E
                                       0
                                      C?|
                                      CGj
                                      C)
                                      C=;
                                      c
                                         E
                                      c 1
                              -59-
QR712R 1imi-~aterei130199 A I

-60-
       ~Z cn
       E
       O      C
      toco
       +1
      00 C?
       +\
   r6       +1 *P
       +\1(
       +1*
          C6Ci
          z
      to     LL
          *E
Co            oZ
(D            E

    Za         -
 -U                            C )
     ..     o~             C     D C   j CD
          _             -      cm    -
                             la)         0
        a)~      0~     .i     0c-   O   a
0                              IL
                   C
                     01
                                            -62

   U+    +  +        + +  + ++
              cd            +
       + 00
                               ++
oo                                        u
      0j                          -C)~ cj
       CL           6L 6r
                -I-63-

                The B4 fractions were collected separately from each independent UNFX sample of HK023,
   appearing as distinct bands of cells with buoyant density between 1.063 - 1.091 g/mL. RNA was
   isolated from each sample and examined for expression of Podocin (glomerular cell marker) and
   PECAM (endothelial cell marker) by quantitative real-time PCR. As expected from a biopsy
 5 generated sample from a case of severe FSGS, the presence of podocin(+) glomerular cells in B4
   fractions was inconsistent, with podocin undetectable in 2/4 of the samples. In contrast, PECAM+
   vascular cells were consistently present in the B4 fractions of 4/4 of the biopsy-initiated cultures.
   Thus, the B4 fraction can be isolated at the 1.063-1.091 g/mL density range, even from human
   kidneys with severe disease states.
10
   Table 7.1 Expression of Podocin and PECAM for detection of glomerular and vascular cells in
   subfraction B4 isolated from a case of FSGS.
          HK023 /                         RQ             RQ
           Biopsy                    (Podocin)/B4    (PECAM)/B4
           #1 / p 2                      0.188          0.003
           #2 / p2                        ND             0.02
           #3 / p2                        40.1          0.001
           #4 / p2                        ND            0.003
                Further, as shown in Table 7.2, human sample (HKO 18) displayed undetected Podocin
15 (glomerular marker) by qRTPCR after density gradient centrifugation.
   Table 7.2. HKO18 Post-Gradient gene expression characterization of B2 & B4'
   Gene                                     RQ(Unfx)        RQ(B2)       RQ(B4)              B2/1B4
   Podocin                                      1             ND            ND
   VegF                                         1             1.43         1.62                0.9
   Aqpl                                         1              1.7          1.2                1.4
   Epo                                          1              0.9          0.5                1.8
   Cubilin                                      1              1.2          0.7                1.7
   Cyp                                          1              1.2          1.4               0.85
   Ecad                                         1             1.15          0.5                2.3
   Ncad                                         1             1.02         0.72                1.4
   EXAMPLE 8 - Enrichment/Depletion of Viable Kidney Cell Types Using Fluorescent Activated
20 Cell Sortin2 (FACS)
                One or more isolated kidney cells may be enriched, and/or one or more specific kidney cell
   types may be depleted from isolated primary kidney tissue using fluorescent activated cell sorting
   (FACS).
   REAGENTS: 70% ethanol; Wash buffer (PBS ); 50:50 Kidney cell medium (50%DMEM high
25 glucose): 50% Keratinocyte-SFM; Trypan Blue 0.4%; Primary antibodies to target kidney cell
                                                             -64
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   population such as CD31 for kidney endothelial cells and Nephrin for kidney glomerular cells.
   Matched isotype specific fluorescent secondary antibodies; Staining buffer ( 0.05% BSA in PBS)
   PROCEDURE: Following standard procedures for cleaning the biological safety cabinet (BSC), a
   single cell suspension of kidney cells from either primary isolation or cultured cells may be obtained
 5 from a T500 T/C treated flask and resuspend in kidney cell medium and place on ice. Cell count and
   viability is then determined using trypan blue exclusion method. For kidney cell
   enrichment/depletion of, for example, glomerular cells or endothelial cells from a heterogeneous
   population, between 10 and 50e6 live cells with a viability of at least 70% are obtained. The
   heterogeneous population of kidney cells is then stained with primary antibody specific for target cell
10 type at a starting concentration of 1pg/0.1ml of staining buffer/i      x 106 cells (titer if necessary).
   Target antibody can be conjugated such as CD31 PE (specific for kidney endothelial cells) or un
   conjugated such as Nephrin (specific for kidney glomerular cells).
                Cells are then stained for 30 minutes on ice or at 4'C protected from light. After 30 minutes
   of incubation, cells are washed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 min. The pellet is then resuspended
15 in either PBS or staining buffer depending on whether a conjugated isotype specific secondary
   antibody is required. If cells are labeled with a fluorochrome conjugated primary antibody, cells are
   resuspended in 2mls of PBS per 10e7 cells and proceed to FACS aria or equivalent cell sorter. If cells
   are not labeled with a fluorochrome conjugated antibody, then cells are labeled with an isotype
   specific fluorochrome conjugated secondary antibody at a starting concentration of lug/0.1ml/le6
20 cells.
                Cells are then stained for 30 min. on ice or at 4'C protected from light. After 30 minutes of
   incubation, cells are washed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 min. After centrifugation, the pellet is
   resuspended in PBS at a concentration of 5e6/ml of PBS and then 4mls per 12x75mm is transferred to
   a sterile tube.
25              FACs Aria is prepared for live cell sterile sorting per manufacturer' s instructions (BD FACs
   Aria User Manual). The sample tube is loaded into the FACs Aria and PMT voltages are adjusted
   after acquisition begins. The gates are drawn to select kidney specific cells types using fluorescent
   intensity using a specific wavelength. Another gate is drawn to select the negative population. Once
   the desired gates have been drawn to encapsulate the positive target population and the negative
30 population, the cells are sorted using manufacturer' s instructions.
                The positive target population is collected in one 15ml conical tube and the negative
   population in another 15 ml conical tube filled with 1 ml of kidney cell medium. After collection, a
   sample from each tube is analyzed by flow cytometry to determine purity. Collected cells are washed
   by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 min. and the pellet is resuspended in kidney cell medium for further
35 analysis and experimentation.
                                                           -65
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   EXAMPLE 9 - Enrichment/Depletion of Kidney Cell Types Usin2 Ma2netic Cell Sortin2
                One or more isolated kidney cells may be enriched and/or one or more specific kidney cell
   types may be depleted from isolated primary kidney tissue.
   REAGENTS: 70% ethanol, Wash buffer (PBS ), 50:50 Kidney cell medium (50%DMEM high
 5 glucose): 50% Keratinocyte-SFM, Trypan Blue 0.4%, Running Buffer(PBS, 2mM EDTA,0.5% BSA),
   Rinsing Buffer (PBS,2mM EDTA), Cleaning Solution (70% v/v ethanol), Miltenyi FCR Blocking
   reagent, Miltenyi microbeads specific for either IgG isotype, target antibody such as CD3 1(PECAM)
   or Nephrin, or secondary antibody.
   PROCEDURE: Following standard procedures for cleaning the biological safety cabinet (BSC), a
10 single cell suspension of kidney cells from either primary isolation or culture is obtained and
   resuspended in kidney cell medium. Cell count and viability is determined using trypan blue
   exclusion method.
                For kidney cell enrichment/depletion of, for example, glomerular cells or endothelial cells
   from a heterogeneous population, at least 10e6 up to 4e9 live cells with a viability of at least 70% is
15 obtained.
                The best separation for enrichment/depletion approach is determined based on target cell of
   interest. For enrichment of a target frequency of less than 10%, for example, glomerular cells using
   Nephrin antibody, the Miltenyi autoMACS, or equivalent, instrument program POSSELDS (double
   positive selection in sensitive mode) is used. For depletion of a target frequency of greater than 10%,
20 the Miltenyi autoMACS, or equivalent, instrument program DEPLETES (depletion in sensitive mode)
   is used.
                Live cells are labeled with target specific primary antibody, for example, Nephrin rb
   polyclonal antibody for glomerular cells, by adding 1tg/10e6 cells/0.1ml of PBS with 0.05% BSA in
   a 15ml conical centrifuge tube, followed by incubation for 15 minutes at 4'C.
25              After labeling, cells are washed to remove unbound primary antibody by adding 1-2ml of
   buffer per 10e7 cells followed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5min. After washing, isotype specific
   secondary antibody, such as chicken anti-rabbit PE at lug/10e6/0.1ml of PBS with 0.05% BSA, is
   added, followed by incubation for 15 minutes at 4'C.
                After incubation, cells are washed to remove unbound secondary antibody by adding 1-2ml of
30 buffer per 10e7 cells followed by centrifugation at 300xg for 5 min. The supernatant is removed, and
   the cell pellet is resuspended in 60pl of buffer per 10e7 total cells followed by addition of 20pl of
   FCR blocking reagent per 10e7 total cells, which is then mixed well.
   Add 20 pl of direct MACS microbeads (such as anti-PE microbeads) and mix and then incubate for
    15 min at 4'C.
                                                           -66
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                After incubation, cells are washed by adding 10-20x the labeling volume of buffer and
   centrifuging the cell suspension at 300xg for 5 min. and resuspending the cell pellet in 500pl -2mls of
   buffer per 10e8 cells.
                Per manufacturer' s instructions, he autoMACS system is cleaned and primed in preparation
 5 for magnetic cell separation using autoMACS. New sterile collection tubes are placed under the
   outlet ports. The autoMACS cell separation program is chosen. For selection the POSSELDS
   program is chosen. For depletion the DEPLETES program is chosen.
                The labeled cells are inserted at uptake port, then beginning the program.
   After cell selection or depletion, samples are collected and placed on ice until use. Purity of the
10 depleted or selected sample is verified by flow cytometry.
   EXAMPLE 10 - Cells with therapeutic potential can be isolated and propa2ated from normal
   and chronically-diseased kidney tissue
                The objective of the present study was to determine the functional characterization of human
15 NKA cells through high content analysis (HCA). High-content imaging (HCI) provides simultaneous
   imaging of multiple sub-cellular events using two or more fluorescent probes (multiplexing) across a
   number of samples. High-content Analysis (HCA) provides simultaneous quantitative measurement
   of multiple cellular parameters captured in High-Content Images. In brief, unfractionated (UNFX)
   cultures were generated (Aboushwareb et al., supra 2008) and maintained independently from core
20 biopsies taken from five human kidneys with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) and three non
   CKD human kidneys using standard biopsy procedures. After (2) passages of UNFX ex vivo, cells
   were harvested and subjected to density gradient methods (as in Example 2) to generate subfractions,
   including subfractions B2, B3, and/or B4.
                Human kidney tissues were procured from non-CKD and CKD human donors as
25 summarized in Table 10.1. Figure 4 shows histopathologic features of the HK17 and HK19
   samples. Ex vivo cultures were established from all non-CKD (3/3) and CKD (5/5) kidneys.
   High content analysis (HCA) of albumin transport in human NKA cells defining regions of interest
   (ROI) is shown in Figure 5 (HCA of albumin transport in human NKA cells). Quantitative
   comparison of albumin transport in NKA cells derived from non-CKD and CKD kidney is shown in
30 Figure 6. As shown in Figure 6, albumin transport is not compromised in CKD-derived NKA
   cultures. Comparative analysis of marker expression between tubular-enriched B2 and tubular cell
   depleted B4 subfractions is shown in Figure 7 (CK8/18/19).
                                                          -67
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

      U),   J             o              -t                CO                                                                         Lni     -Fo
      u    >1                                                                                          --            L                 on
           0        2- 2~          0   -U)          Q    *C.                                                                                        (     -       co .:
                                      75               D           on  .0co                                                    -   (n     Q)c-F                    -~
                          c                                                                2.           CY)
                                                       C: o 'E                    Q)'n--c)               0        L                            (E                -0
       LLE-                                          m           "         1     -             .       -         F   2           c    -~ 75    E                      'E -t:!~3
                                                   o            co                                       02 m0)-                 1-C  205 C       5C        T
           c 0       Y0      (n
          -n   7        -                                    A) 0(                               5 cw2                                     E-                          r
                                                                                                                           In C,
                    Ln o~                                                                               0                              y                   0oQ
                        F-o-                   C)           NE                                                              "O                        CO
                                        0          -     0            0                       _2           .2IL0C                c
    -o                                                                     -t                                            Do>
                                                0                                              Z                 C     N-
                          0               nE                       (1         ).       )               N-                               )      c
                                         2O                CON-                                         0         D(
           E                   0                                                               Ef      0n                                      ocO           )-:
                                                                                          Cff)
mE
                                          a)~~>               0a                   000
                                      Cj                   Cj                            0                              -)
                                  C:                        c~
                            LL                                                                                                                                C
                        0n 0    ~          0IL             O                           06                                    0                         6
               0                                        o                                                     C0)coc
     >J                                                                                  (D~>                                             ~       >'.2o~.
                                                                                    E2                                       CO                  12'~
                                                             0
                 co                                              C                                               0-c                             -0-          CLC
                                     >      C0                   o                                                        o
                                             0                                                           0
                      CCO
 (n       CO           )N-                 -     1             -    1                  0D
                           0      0                        D 0: (0                           C                           01                            0F          E5 d
          I5            Io              I5 CC               IY                         I;.L                            IC                             I;.

                Comparative functional analysis of albumin transport between tubular-enriched B2 and
   tubular cell-depleted B4 subfractions is shown in Figure 8.              Subfraction B2 is enriched in proximal
   tubule cells and thus exhibits increased albumin-transport function.
                Albumin uptake: Culture media of cells grown to confluency in 24-well, collagen IV plates
 5 (BD Biocoat            TM)    was replaced for 18-24 hours with phenol red-free, serum-free, low-glucose DMEM
   (pr-/s-/lg DMEM) containing IX antimycotic/antibiotic and 2mM glutamine. Immediately prior to
   assay, cells were washed and incubated for 30 minutes with pr-/s-/lg DMEM + 1OmM HEPES, 2mM
   glutamine,1.8mM CaCl2, and imM MgCl2. Cells were exposed to 25[ig/nL rhodamine-conjugated
   bovine albumin (Invitrogen) for 30 min, washed with ice cold PBS to stop endocytosis and fixed
10 immediately with 2% paraformaldehyde containing 25 [Ig/nL Hoechst nuclear dye. For inhibition
   experiments, 1 M receptor-associated protein (RAP) (Ray Biotech, Inc., Norcross GA) was added 10
   minutes prior to albumin addition. Microscopic imaging and analysis was performed with a BD
   PathwayTM 855 High-Content Biolmager (Becton Dickinson) (see Kelley et al. Am J Physiol Renal
   Physiol. 2010 Nov;299(5):F1026-39. Epub Sep 8, 2010).
15              In conclusion, HCA yields cellular level data and can reveal populations dynamics that are
   undetectable by other assays, i.e., gene or protein expression. A quantifiable ex-vivo HCA assay for
   measuring albumin transport (HCA-AT) function can be utilized to characterize human renal tubular
   cells as components of human NKA prototypes. HCA-AT enabled comparative evaluation of cellular
   function, showing that albumin transport-competent cells were retained in NKA cultures derived from
20 human CKD kidneys. It was also shown that specific subfractions of NKA cultures, B2 and B4, were
   distinct in phenotype and function, with B2 representing a tubular cell-enriched fraction with
   enhanced albumin transport activity. The B2 cell subpopulation from human CKD are phenotypically
   and functionally analogous to rodent B2 cells that demonstrated efficacy in vivo (as shown above).
25 Example 11 - Marker expression as a predictor of renal regeneration
                This study concerns stem and progenitor marker expression as a predictor of renal
   regeneration in 5/6 nephrectomized rats treated with therapeutically bio-active primary renal cell sub
   populations. The underlying mechanisms by which NKA treatment improved renal function are
   being characterized. Our studies on NKA treatment' s mechanism of action concemcell-cell
30 signalling, engraftment, and fibrotic pathways. The present work focused on how NKA treatment
   might increase the organ' s intrinsic regenerative capacity - perhaps by mobilizing renal stem cells.
   We hypothesize that the extended survival and improvement in renal function observed in NKA
   treated 5/6 NX rats is associated with molecular expression of specific stem cell markers.
                Using a rat 5/6 nephrectomy model for CKD, this study employs molecular assays to evaluate
35 the mobilization of resident stem and progenitor cells within the rat 5/6 nephrectomized kidney in
   response to direct injection with defined, therapeutically bio-active primary renal cell populations. It
                                                               -69
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   was observed that this cell-based therapy is specifically associated with up-regulation of the key stem
   cell markers CD24, CD 133, UTFI, SOX2, LEFTY 1, and NODAL at both transcript and protein
   levels. Up-regulation was detected by 1 week post-injection and peaked by 12 weeks post-injection.
   Activation of stem and progenitor cell markers was associated with increased survival and significant
 5 improvement of serum biomarkers relative to untreated nephrectomized controls.
                Materials and Methods
                Isolation ofprimary renal cell populationsfrom rat. Isolation of primary renal cell
   populations from rat were performed as previously described (Aboushwareb et al., supra 2008;
   Presnell et al., 2009 FASEB J 23: LB 143).
10              In vivo study design and analysis. Detailed descriptions of the isolation of primary renal cell
   populations (Presnell et al. Tissue Eng Part C Methods. 2010 Oct 27. [Epub ahead of print]) and the
   in vivo studies that evaluated the bioactivity of primary renal cell sub-populations in the 5/6
   nephrectomized rodent model of CKD (Kelley et al. supra 2010). A tubular cell-enriched
   subpopulation of primary renal cells improves survival and augments kidney function in a rodent
15 model of chronic kidney disease were published elsewhere. In the current study, tissues were isolated
   at necropsy from rats treated with B2 (NKA #1) or a B2+B4 mixture (NKA #2) and compared to
   nephrectomized (Nx) and sham-operated, non-nephrectomized rats (Control). In Figures 9 and 11 and
   Table 11.1, data from NKA #1 and NKA #2 treated rats was pooled. Systemic data was obtained by
   analysis of blood samples drawn weekly and pre-necropsy from rats on study.
20              Table 11.1 shows survival data for sham treated animals (control), n=3; nx control (Nx), n+3;
   animals treated with B2 cells (NKA#1), n= 7; B2+B4 cells (NKA#2); n= 7. At the end of the study
   (23-24 weeks) none of the Nx animals remained. NKA treated animals had a superior survival rate
   compared to the untreated Nx control.
                                                         -70
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Table 11.1
                                       Early            Midpoint          End of Study
          Treatment Group               1 week          12-13 Week        [23-24 Week]
          Control                      2/3*             2/2               2/2
          NX                           2/3*             1/2               0/1
          NKA #1                        5/7**           3/7**             1/3**
          NKA #2                        5/7**           3/7**             3/3
                *   1 animal sacrificed at scheduled timepoint for tissue
                ** 2 animals sacrificed at scheduled timepoint for tissue
                RNA Isolation, cDNA Synthesis and qRT-PCR. RNA was isolated from tissues embedded in
 5 optimum cutting temperature (OCT) freezing media as follows: tissue blocks were placed at room
   temperature and excess OCT was removed, the tissues were then placed in PBS to allow complete
   thawing and removal of residual OCT, the tissues were washed three times in PBS and then coarsely
   chopped and aliquoted into microfuge tubes. The aliquoted tissues were then pulverized using a
   pestle and RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plus Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia CA). RNA
10 integrity was determined spectrophotomerically and cDNA was generated from a volume of RNA
   equal to 1.4 tg using the SuperScript* VILOTM cDNA Synthesis Kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA).
   Following cDNA synthesis, each sample was diluted 1:6 by adding 200 pl of diH 20 to bring the final
   volume to 240 pl. The expression levels of target transcripts were examined via quantitative real-time
   PCR (qRT-PCR) using catalogued primers and probes from ABI and an ABI-Prism 7300 Real Time
15 PCR System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City CA). Amplification was performed using the
   TaqMan* Gene Expression Master Mix (ABI, Cat# 4369016) and peptidylprolyl isomerase B (PPIB)
   was utilized as the endogenous control. qRT-PCR Reaction: 10 pl Master Mix (2X), 1 pl Primer and
   Probe (20X), 9 pl cDNA, 20 pl Total Volume per Reaction. Each reaction was setup as follows using
   the TaqManR primers and probes.
20
   Gene                                                    Abbreviation          TaqMan primer
   SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2 Sox2                                     Rn01286286_g1
   Undifferentiated Embryonic Cell
   Transcription Factor                                     UTF1                 Rn01498190_g1
25 Nodal Homolog from Mouse                                NODAL                 Rn01433623_ml
   Prominin 1                                               CD133                Rn00572720_ml
   CD24                                                     CD24                 Rn00562598_ml
   LEFTY1
                                                           -71
   9871238 1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Western Blot. Frozen whole kidney tissue embedded in OCT freezing media was utilized for
   protein sample collection. OCT was removed as described above and all tissues were lysed in a
   buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris (pH 8.0), 120mM NaCl, 0.5% NP40, and protease inhibitor cocktail
   (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis IN). Lysis proceeded for 15 minutes at room temperature with
 5 rocking followed by centrifugation for 10 minutes at 13,000 RPM. All supernatants were collected
   and protein concentrations were determined by Bradford Assay. SDS PAGE Gel was carried out by
   adding 30 gg of protein per sample to each well of NuPAGE@ Novex 10% Bis-Tris Gels
   (Invitrogen). The gels were electrophoresed for 40 min at 200V in MES running buffer (Invitrogen).
   The proteins were then transferred to nitrocellulose membranes using the I-Blot system (Invitrogen),
10 and blocked with 15 mL of 4% w/v low-fat milk dissolved in Tris Buffered Saline with 0.l1% Tween
   20 (TBS-T) (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) for 2 hours at room temperature. The membranes were probed
   overnight at room temperature with the following antibodies:each diluted in 5 mL TBS-T with 2%
   w/v low-fat milk. (Anti-Human Lefty-A Long & Short isoforms (R&D systems MAB746 1); Anti
   Human, Mouse & Rat CD133 (Abcam AB19898); Anti-Human & Mouse UTFI (Millipore
15 MAB4337); Anti-Human NODAL (Abcam AB55676); Anti-Human & Rat CDH1 1 (OB Cadherin)
   (Thermo Scientific MAl -06306); Anti-Rat CD24 (Becton Dickinson)). The membranes were washed
   3 times / 10 minutes each with TBS-T, then probed with the appropriate HRP-conjugated secondary
   antibody (Vector Labs PI-2000; PI-1000) diluted in TBS-T with 2% w/v low-fat milk (1:60,000) for
    1.5 hours at room temperature. The membranes were washed 3 times / 10 minutes each in TBS-T,
20 followed by two 10-minute washes in diH 20. The blots were developed using ECL Advance
   chemiluminescent reagent (GE Healthcare Life Sciences, Piscataway NJ) and visualized using the
   ChemiDocTM XRS molecular imager and Quantity One software (BioRad, Hercules CA).
                Results. Molecular assays to evaluate the mobilization of resident stem and progenitor cells
   in 5/6 NX rats were developed and used to investigate the temporal response of these markers to NKA
25 treatment. It was observed that NKA treatment was specifically associated with up-regulation of the
   key stem cell markers CD24, CD133, UTF-1, SOX-2, LEFTY, and NODAL at mRNA transcript and
   protein levels. Up-regulation was detected by 1 week post-injection and had peaked by 12 weeks
   post-injection. Activation of stem and progenitor cell markers was associated with increased survival
   and significant improvement of serum biomarkers (i.e., improvement of renal filtration) relative to
30 untreated 5/6 NX control animals.
                Figure 9 shows the expression of SOX2 mRNA in host tissue after treatment of 5/6 NX rats
   with NKA. Temporal analysis of SOX2 mRNA expression showed 1.8-fold increase in SOX2
   mRNA within NKA treatment group over Nx control by 12 week post-implantation. A 2.7-fold
   increase in SOX2 mRNA expression was observed in NKA treatment group over Nx control by 24
35 weeks post-implantation. (1-week n= 3 each for Control (sham), Nx (control), and NKA treated) (12
                                                        -72
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   week n=1 each for Control (sham) and Nx (control); NKA treated n=4) (24 week n=1 each for
   Control (sham) and Nx (control); NKA treated n=4). *Indicates p-value = 0.023 or < 0.05.
                Figure 10 - Western blot showing time course of expression of CD24, CD133, UTF1, SOX2,
   NODAL and LEFTY in sham control (Control), Nx control (Nx), and rats treated NKA #1 and NKA
 5 #2 at 1, 12 and 24 weeks post-treatment. Frozen whole kidney tissue (N = 1 for each sample)
   embedded in OCT freezing media was utilized for protein sample collection. Lanes were normalized
   by total mass protein loaded. CD133, UTFI, NODAL, LEFTY and SOX2 protein levels in NKA
   treated tissues were elevated relative to Control or Nx rats at all time points.
                Figure 11 depicts a time course of regenerative response index (RRI). A densitometric
10 analysis of individual protein expression (Figure 10) was used to generate a quantitative index of
   regenerative marker protein expression, or regenerative response index (RRI). Band intensity was
   calculated from each western blot using Image J vi.4 software (NIH) and values normalized per unit
   area for each protein. Average intensity was determined for sham, Nx, and NKA treatment groups
   by compiling the 5 markers used in the western blot analysis for each time point. Plot shows XY
15 scatter with smoothed line fit generated from 1,12,and 24 week time points. The average intensity for
   each group was plotted over time to highlight the trends in the host tissue response of stem cell
   marker protein expression. Statistical analysis was performed using standard two tailed Student' s t
   test assuming equal variance for each sample. Confidence interval of 95% (p-value < 0.05) was used
   to determine statistical significance. (NKA treated group n=2; Control (sham) n=1; Nx (control) n=1).
20 In sham control animals, RRI shows only a slight reduction from 90.47 at 1 week post-treatment to
   81.89 at 24 weeks post treatment. In contrast, kidney from 5/6 Nx controls presents essentially the
   opposite response, with RRI increasing from 82.26 at 1 week post-treatment to 140.56 at 18 weeks
   post-treatment, at which point the animal died. In NKA-treated animals RRI increased sharply from
   62.89 at 1 week post-treatment to 135.61 by 12 weeks post-treatment and fell to 112.61 by 24 weeks
25 post-treatment.
                NKA treatment was observed to be associated with up-regulation of the stem cell markers
   CD24, CD133, UTF-1, SOX-2 and NODAL at both transcript and protein levels in the host tissue.
   Up-regulation was detected by 1 week post-treatment and peaked by 12 weeks post-treatment.
   Overall activation of stem and progenitor cell markers in host tissues was associated with increased
30 survival (1) and improvement of clinically-relevant serum biomarkers relative to untreated
   nephrectomized controls.
                Mobilization of resident stem and progenitor cell populations in response to NKA treatment
   may contribute to the restoration of kidney function in 5/6 NX animals by regenerating damaged
   kidney tissue and organ architecture. The molecular assays used in this study might therefore provide
35 a rapid, straightforward, and predictive assay of regenerative outcomes for evaluating tissue
   engineering and regenerative medicine treatments for CKD.
                                                         -73
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Example 12 - Exosomes derived from primary renal cells contain microRNAs
                We sought to correlate specific exosome-derived miRNAs with functionally-relevant
   outcomes in target cells in vitro to inform the design of in vivo studies for elucidating mechanisms
 5 that yield regenerative outcomes.
                METHODS: The effect of conditioned media on signaling pathways associated with
   regenerative healing responses was investigated using commercially available cells: HK-2 (human
   proximal tubule cell line), primary human renal mesangial cells (HRMC), and human umbilical cord
   endothelial cells (HUVEC). RNA content from exosomes in conditioned media from human and rat
10 primary renal cell cultures (UNFX) was screened by PCR-based array designed to detect known
   miRNAs. Low oxygen has been reported to affect exosome shedding; therefore, a group of cultures
   was exposed to low oxygen (2%         02) for 24 hours prior to media collection. Exosomes were separated
   from cellular debris by FACS.
                Figure 12 provides a schematic for the preparation and analysis of UNFX conditioned media.
15              RESULTS: UNFX-conditioned media was found to affect signaling pathways associated with
   regenerative healing responses; these responses were not observed in controls using non-conditioned
   media. Specifically, NFB (immune response) and epi thelial-to-mesenchymal transition (fibrotic
   response) was attenuated in HK-2 cells, PAI- 1 (fibrotic response) was attenuated in HRMC cells, and
   angiogenesis was promoted in HUVEC. Preliminary data from PCR array screening of exosome
20 content from UNFX-conditioned media indicates that UNFX produces exosomes containing miRNA
   sequences consistent with the observed responses to UNFX-conditioned media.
                Figure 13A-C shows that conditioned media from UNFX cultures affects multiple cellular
   processes in vitro that are potentially associated with regenerative outcomes. NFkB signaling is
   proposed as a key mediator of inflammatory processes in kidney diseases (Rangan et al., 2009. Front
25 Biosci 12:3496-3522; Sanz et al., 2010. JAm Soc Nephrol 21:1254-1262), and can be activated by
   Tumor Necrosis Factors (TNF). HK-2 cells were preincubated with unconditioned media (left) or
   UNFX conditioned media (right) for 1 hour at 37'C, then activated with or without 10 ng/ml TNFa.
                Figure 13A shows that UNFX-conditioned media attenuates TNF-a mediated activation of
   NF-kB. NFkB activation was measured by RelA/p65 immunofluorescence staining (green).
30 Hoechst-counter-stained nuclei (blue) and phalloidin-stained filamentous actin (red) facilitate
   assessment of RelA/p65 nuclear localization (white arrows).
                Figure 13B shows that UNFX-conditioned media increases proangiogenic behavior of
   HUVEC cell cultures. HUVEC cells (100,000 per well) were overlaid onto polymerized Matrigel in
   Media 200 plus 0.5% BSA. Unconditioned media (left) or UNFX-conditioned medium (right) was
35 added and cellular organizational response was monitored visually for 3-6 hours with image capture.
   Cellular organization was scored for cell migration (white arrowheads), alignment (black
                                                         -74
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   arrowheads), tubule formation (red arrowheads), and formation of closed polygons (asterisks). UNFX
   conditioned media induced more tubules and closed polygons compared to unconditioned media,
   suggesting that proangiogenic factors are present in the media.
                Figure 13C shows that UNFX-conditioned media attenuates fibrosis pathways in epithelial
 5 cells. HK-2 cells lose epithelial characteristics, and acquire a mesenchymal phenotype when exposed
   to Transforming Growth Factors (TGF) in vitro, replicating the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition
   (EMT) that is associated with progression of renal fibrosis (Zeisberg et al. 2003 Nat Med 9:964-968).
   HK-2 cells were cultured in unconditioned media (CTRL), unconditioned media containing 10 ng/ml
   TGFP1 (TGF 1), or UNFX conditioned media containing 10 ng/ml TGFP1 (TGF 1+CM) for 72
10 hours. Cells were assayed by quantitative RT-PCR for CDH1 (epithelial marker), CNN]
   (mesenchymal marker) and MYH11 (mesenchymal marker). Conditioned media reduces the degree of
   TGFP1-induced EMT as measured by CDH1, CNN], and MYH11 gene expression. Error bars
   represent the stardard error of the mean (SEM) of three experimental replicates.
                Figure 13D depicts the positive feedback loop established by TGFP1 and Plasminogen
15 Activator Inhibitor-I (PAl- 1) that, when left unchecked, can lead to the progressive accumulation of
   extracellular matrix proteins (Seo et al., 2009. Am JNephrol 30:481-490).
                Figure 14A-B shows the attenuation of fibrosis pathways in mesangial cells. HRMC were
   cultured for 24 hours in control (CTRL) or UNFX conditioned media (UNFX CM) with (+) or
   without (-) the addition of 5 ng/ml TGFP1. Western blot analysis for PAI-I demonstrates that UNFX
20 CM attenuates the TGF 1-induced increase in PAI-I protein levels. bActin is shown as a loading
   control. Human renal mesangial cells (HRMC) express increased levels of PAI-I in the presence (+)
   of 5 ng/ml TGFb 1. Co-culture with conditioned media (CM) derived from human bioactive kidney
   cells attenuates TGFbl -induced PAI-1 protein expression. PAI-i expression at the mRNA level was
   unaltered by CM (data not shown).
25              Figure 14B shows that CM from rat bioactive kidney cells had similar effect on cultured
   HRMC induced (+) and uninduced (-) with TGFb 1. CM supernatant (Deplete Rat CM) collected after
   centrifugation was less effective at attenuating PAI- 1 expression, suggesting that the CM component
   responsible for the observed attenuation of PAI-I protein might be associated with vesicles secreted
   by the rat bioactive kidney cells.
30              Figure 15 shows that the conditioned media from UNFX contains secreted vesicles. Figure
    145A depicts secreted vesicles (including exosomes), which are bilipid structures (red) that
   encompass cytoplasm-derived internal components (green). Phosphatidylserines (blue triangles) are
   components of the membrane that are exposed to the extracellular space during vesicle biogenesis
   (Thery et al., 2010. Nat Rev Immunol 9:581-593).
35              PKH26 and CFSE label the lipid membrane and cytoplasm of secreted vesicles (Aliotta et al.,
   2010. Exp Hematol 3 8:233-245), respectively, while Annexin V binds phosphatidylserines.
                                                        -75
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Figure 15B-C shows FACS sorting. UNFX conditioned media was labeled with PKH26,
   CFSE, and APC-conjugated Annexin V, then sorted by fluorescence-assisted cell sorting (FACS).
   Triple-positive particles, representing secreted vesicles, were collected and total RNA was extracted
   using TRIZol reagent. microRNA content was screened for known sequences using commercially
 5 available RT-PCR-based arrays.
                Table 12.1 shows that secreted vesicles contain microRNAs with predicted therapeutic
   outcomes. UNFX cells shed exosomes that contain known miRNA sequences. UNFX-conditioned
   media affects functionally-relevant regenerative responses in human cell lines. The cause and effect
   relationship between detected miRNAs and observed regenerative responses is under active
10 investigation; however, the results achieved to date suggest that UNFX cells have the potential to
   produce therapeutically-relevant paracrine effects via exosome-mediated transfer of miRNAs to target
   cells and tissues.
   Table 12.1
   miRNA in exosomes                 Gene targets      Predicted effects
   miR-146a                          TRAF6, IRAK1*     Inhibits NFkB
   miR-130a                          GAX, HOXA5**      Promotes angiogenesis
   miR-23b                           Smad 3/4/5***     Inhibits TGF;ignal transduction (anti -fibrotic)
   *Taganov et al, 2006. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103:12481-12486.
15 **Chen and Gorski, 2008. Blood 111:1217-1226.
   ***Rogler et al., 2009. Hepatology 50:575-584.
   The data support the conclusion that excreted vesicles from bioactive renal cell cultures contain
   components that attenuate PAI-I induced by the TGFb l/PAI-I feedback loop.
20
                MicroarrayandRT-PCR analysis. Unfractionated (UNFX) bioactive renal cells from Lewis
   rats were cultured in basal media (50:50 mix of DMEM and KSFM without serum or supplements)
   for 24 hours under low oxygen conditions (2% 02). Conditioned media was collected and
   ultracentrifuged at 100,000 xg for 2 hours at 4C to pellet secreted vesicles (e.g. microvesicles,
25 exosomes). Total RNA was extracted from the resulting pellet, and assayed for known microRNA
   species by real time RT-PCR (Rat MicroRNA Genome V2.0 PCR Array; Qiagen #MAR-100A). The
   following miRNAs were detectable.
                                                         -76
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-21                  miR-30d         miR-218
                miR-23a                 miR-31          miR-210
                miR-30c                 miR-93       75 miR-98
                miR-1224             40 miR-182         miR-18a
 5              miR-23b                 miR-99a         miR-342-3p
                miR-92a                 miR-320         miR-203
                miR-100                 miR-664         miR-352
                miR-125b-5p             miR-3Oe*     80 miR-181c
                miR-195              45 let-7i          miR-222
10              miR-lOa-5p              miR-196a        miR-219-1-3p
                miR-370                 miR-26b         miR-708
                miR-24                  miR-200a        miR-652
                miR-30a                 miR-126      85 1et-7d*
                miR- 16              50 miR-29c         miR-503
15              miR-126*                miR-200c        miR-138
                miR-30b-5p              miR-i151        miR-450a
                miR-27a                 miR-429         miR-365
                miR-20a                 miR-103      90 miR-874
                let-7c               55 let-7a          miR-345-5p
20              miR-26a                 miR-322*        miR-374
                miR-17-5p               miR-15b         miR-872
                miR-30e                 miR-378         miR-186
                miR-25                  miR-127      95 miR-130a
                let-7b               60 miR-199a-5p     miR-140*
25              miR-20b-5p              miR-181b        miR-28*
                miR-29a                 miR-1I06b       miR-212
                let-7d                  miR-196c        miR-139-3p
                miR-22                  miR-1I96b   100 miR-347
                miR-322              65 miR-19a         miR-151*
30              let-7e                  miR-145         miR-328
                miR- 191                let-7f          miR-185
                miR-99b                 miR-181d        miR-28
                miR-19b                 miR-181a    105 miR-192
                miR-l0b              70 miR-221         miR-92b
35              miR-27b                 miR-30a*        miR-672
                miR-125a-5p             miR-351         miR-iSO
                                             -77
   9871238 1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-425                 miR-465         miR-350
                miR-146a                miR-674-3p      miR-466b
                miR-107                 miR-21*      75 miR-205
                miR-330*             40 miR-99b*        miR-598-5p
 5              miR-409-3p              miR-125a-3p     miR-532-5p
                miR-877                 miR-183         miR-411
                miR-760-3p              miR-143         miR-188
                miR-770                 miR-324-5p   80 miR-331
                miR-152              45 miR-674-5p      miR-124
10              miR-106b*               miR-760-5p      miR-431
                miR-675                 miR-361         miR-154
                miR-423                 miR-296         miR-30d*
                miR-194                 miR-148b-3p  85 miR-466c
                miR-490              50 miR-542-3p      miR-142-3p
15              miR-128                 miR-667         miR-7a*
                miR-497                 miR-935         miR-298
                miR-301a                miR-24-2*       let-7b*
                miR-130b                miR-433      90 miR-338
                miR-199a-3p          55 miR-295         miR-449a
20              miR-326                 miR-140         miR-125b*
                miR-132                 miR-9           miR-34c
                miR-375                 miR-871         miR-346
                miR-25*                 miR-29a*     95 miR-147
                miR-22*              60 miR-542-5p      miR-9*
25              miR-96                  miR-129         miR-146b
                miR-34a                 miR-214         miR-219-5p
                miR-223                 miR-29c*        miR-653
                miR-301b                miR-489     100 miR-340-3p
                miR-505              65 miR-141         miR-224
30              miR-532-3p              miR-500         miR-330
                miR-7a                  miR-17-3p       miR-544
                miR-451                 miR-339-5p      miR-193
                miR-34c*                miR-7b      105 miR-761
                miR-339-3p           70 miR-501         miR-181a*
35              miR-190                 miR-206         miR-27a*
                miR-671                 miR-193*        miR-34b
                                           -78
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-455                 miR-504         miR-376a
                miR-20a*                let-7e*         miR-540
                miR-488                 miR-129*     75 miR-336
                miR-26b*             40 miR-101b        miR-134
 5              miR-342-5p              miR-122         miR-24-l*
                miR-543                 miR-539         miR-363
                miR-105                 miR-30b-3p      miR-329
                miR-291a-5p             miR-184      80 miR-133b
                miR-138*             45 miR-673         miR-875
10              miR-190b                miR-463         miR-201
                let-7i*                 miR-297         miR-483
                miR-484                 miR-363*        miR-742
                miR-30c-2*              miR-384-5p   85 miR-1
                miR-125b-3p          50 miR-344-5p      miR-293
15              miR-764                 miR-133a        miR-349
                miR-421                 miR-582         miR-30c-l*
                miR-485                 miR-541         miR-153
                miR-296*                miR-344-3p   90 miR-743a
                miR-29b              55 miR-345-3p      miR-323
20              miR-382                 miR-362         miR-495
                miR-511                 miR-380         miR-410
                miR-99a*                miR-878         miR-137
                miR-499                 miR-377      95 miR-300-3p
                miR-101a*            60 miR-409-5p      miR-369-5p
25              miR-20b-3p              miR-216a        miR-376b-3p
                miR-434                 miR-496         miR-211
                miR-139-5p              miR-379         miR-33
                miR-1Oa-3p              miR-711     100 miR-758
                miR-148b-5p          65 miR-32          miR-802
30              miR-598-3p              miR-291a-3p
                miR-29b-2*              miR-487b
                miR-335                 miR-23a*
                miR-215                 miR-294
                miR-219-2-3p         70 miR-207
35              miR-327                 miR-343
                miR-204                 miR-292-3p
                                             -79
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Example 13 - Paracrine Factors Derived from Bioactive Kidney Cells
                In the present study, we employed in vitro cell-based assays to investigate potential paracrine
   mechanism(s) by which bioactive kidney cells could modulate fibrosis through mediators such as
 5 Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor-I (PAl-1).
                Materials and Methods: Conditioned media was collected from rat and human cultures of
   bioactive kidney cells (Aboushwareb et al., World J Urol 26, 295, 2008; Presnell et al. 2010 supra)
   under serum- and supplement-free conditions and utilized for in vitro assays. Commercially available
   rat- and human-derived mesangial cells were used as surrogates for host-response tissues in the in
10 vitro assays because mesangial cells are a source of PAI- 1 production in injured or diseased kidneys
   (Rerolle et al., Kidney Int 58, 1841, 2000.). PAI-i gene and protein expression were assayed by
   quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. Vesicular particles shed by cells into the culture
   media (e.g., exosomes) were collected by high-speed centrifugation (Wang et al., Nuc Acids Res
   2010, 1-12 doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq6O 1, July 7, 2010) and total RNA extracted from the pellet with
15 TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen). RNA content of the vesicles was screened using PCR-based arrays of
   known microRNA sequences (Qiagen).
                Results: Conditioned media from bioactive kidney cell cultures attenuated the TGF
   induced increase in PAI-I steady-state protein levels in mesangial cells, but did not affect steady state
   mRNA levels; an observation that is consistent with the mechanism by which microRNAs modulate
20 target genes. Based on the hypothesis that microRNAs can be transferred between cells through
   extracellular vesicle trafficking (Wang et al., supra 2010), we analyzed the conditioned media for
   microRNA content and confirmed the presence of microRNA 30b-5p (miR-30b-5p), a putative
   inhibitor of PAI-1.
                The data presented here suggest that bioactive kidney cells may modulate fibrosis directly
25 through cell-to-cell transfer of miR-30b-5p to target mesangial cells via exosomes. As a result of
   miR-30b-5p uptake by mesangial cells, TGF           -induced increases in steady-state PAI-i protein levels
   are attenuated, a response that, in renal tissue, could ultimately reduce deposition of extracellular
   matrix within the glomerular space. Current work is underway to confirm that PAI- 1 is indeed a
   direct target of miR-30b-5p.
30              Figure 14A-B shows a western blot of PAI-I and a-Actin (control) protein expression in
   human mesangial cells cultured for 24 hour in control (CTRL) or bioactive kidney cell conditioned
   media (CM) with (+) or without (-) TGF addition to the culture media. In CTRL cul tures, TGF
   increased PAI-I protein expression. In CM cultures, the TGF          -induced response was attenuated.
                Secreted vesicles were analyzed for microRNAs that may be putative repressors of PAI-i.
35 Secreted vesicles from human and rat bioactive kidney cell CM were collected by high-speed
   centrifugation and assayed for microRNA content using PCR-based arrays of known sequences.
                                                         -80
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   miR-449a, a putative regulator of PAI-1 (6), was identified. HRMC were transiently transfected with
   miR-449a or not (CTRL). 24 hours post-transfection cells were either exposed to 5 ng/ml TGFb1 (+)
   or not (-) for an additional 24 hours.
                Figure 16A shows a Western blot in which total protein was prepared and assayed for PAI-I
 5 and bActin. miR-449a reduced steady-state PAI-I protein levels (compare lane 1 to lane 3) and
   induced levels of PAI- 1 protein were also lower in miR-449a transfected cultures (compare lane 2 to
   lane 4). The data support the conclusion that excreted vesicles contain miR-449a and uptake of miR
   449a into mesangial cells reduces PAI- 1 expression.
                Figure 16B depicts the microRNA, miR-30b-5p, which was also identified in the PCR-based
10 array and is a putative regulator of PAI-I based on predictive algorithms (http://mirbase.org
   miRBase is hosted and maintained in the Faculty of Life Sciences at the University of Manchester).
                PAI- 1 protein levels in glomeruli were examined in vivo after treatment of CKD induced by
   5/6 nephrectomy with bioactive renal cells.
                Figure 17A-C shows representative immunohistochemistry images of PAI-I (A-C) in Lewis
15 rat kidneys that have undergone unilateral nephrectomy (A), 5/6 nephrectomy (B), or 5/6
   nephrectomy with intra-renal delivery of bioactive kidney cells (C). Accumulation of PAI-I in the
   glomerulus (arrowheads) as a result of the 5/6 nephrectomy procedure (B) was reduced as a result of
   treatment (C).
                In a separate study, qRT-PCR was conducted on kidney tissue harvested at necropsy and the
20 relative gene expression values were plotted against days on study.
                Figure 17D shows that 5/6 nephrectomized rats (red squares) demonstrated more robust
   expression of PAI-] relative to those treated with bioactive renal cells (blue diamonds) and sham
   operated controls (green triangles).
                Figure 17E shows representative Western blot analysis on kidney samples taken at 3 and 6
25 months post-treatment. Treated tissues (Nx+Tx) of 5/6 nephrectomized rats (Nx) had reduced the
   accumulation of PAI-I and Fibronectin (FN) protein (Kelley et al. 2010 supra).
                The data support the conclusion that in vivo PAI-I protein levels in glomeruli decrease after
   treatment of CKD induced by 5/6 nephrectomy with bioactive renal cells.
                When taken together, Examples 12-13 support the hypothesis that one mechanism by which
30 intra-renal delivery of bioactive kidney cells improves renal function might be via cell-cell transfer of
   components that modulate fibrotic pathways in resident kidney cells.
                                                         -81
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Example 14 - Secreted factors from bioactive kidney cells attenuate NFB            si2nalin2 pathways
                In this study, we investigated the role of NFB pat hways in the NKA-mediated attenuation of
   disease progression in the 5/6 nephrectomy model and to identify properties of the bioactive kidney
   cells that may contribute to regenerative outcomes through direct modulation of NFB activation
 5 Figure 17G depicts the canonical activation of the NFkB pathway by TNFa
                Materials and Methods: Remnant kidneys were harvested from Lewis rats in which a two
   step 5/6 nephrectomy procedure was performed 6 weeks prior to being treated with B2 + B4 in PBS
   (NKA prototype). NKA-treated (TX) or untreated (UNTX) tissues were assayed for NFB activation
   by immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and electrophoresis mobility shift assays
10 (EMSA). Conditioned media (CM) collected from ex vivo NKA cell cultures grown in serum- and
   supplement-free media was used for in vitro functional assays. The human proximal tubule cell line
   (HK-2) was used as target cell type for molecular and immunofluorsence-based assay readouts.
   Vesicular particles shed by cells into the culture media (exosomes) were collected by high-speed
   centrifugation. Total RNA isolated from exosomes was screened using PCR-based arrays of known
15 microRNA sequences (Qiagen).
                Results: Nuclear localization of the NFB subunit, RelA/p65,    was observed in remnant
   kidneys from 5/6 nephrectomized rats, suggesting activation of inflammatory pathways in UNTX
   tissues. Preliminary comparison with TX tissues by RT-PCR showed a decrease in RelA gene
   expression, suggesting that NKA treatment may influence NFB pathway activation through
20 inhibition of RelA/p65 expression. This hypothesis is supported by the observation that CM
   attenuates TNFa-induced NFB activation in vitro, as evidenced by the reduced nuclear localization
   of RelA/p65 in CM-exposed HK-2 cells (Figure 17F) relative to that seen in response to Tumor
   Necrosis Factor-(TNF 0 Ongoing              RT-PCR analyses of NKA exosome microRNAs are
   investigating whether sequences known to influence NFB pathways are present.
25              Figure 17F shows a 2-hour exposure to NKA CM reduces nuclear localization of NFB p65
   (green) in HK-2 compared to that observed in control cultures pretreated with TNFdn
   immunofluorescent assays. In HK-2, NFkB p65 (green) localizes to the nucleus after a 30 minute
   exposure to TNF(Control Media). However, pre -treatment of HK-2 cells with NKA Conditioned
   Media for 2 hours prior to TNFmaddition attenuated the NFkB p65 nuclear locali zation response.
30 Nuclei are stained with DAPI (blue) and filamentous actin is stained with Alexa594-phalloidin (red)
   to assist in qualitatively assessing the robustness of NFB nuclear localization (note the slightly
   diminished phalloidin borders in TNFa-treated control cells in the merged panels in the bottom row).
   The counterstaing provide reference for the NFkB localization in the merged images.
                Immunohistochemistry for the NFkB p65 subunit in kidney tissues of Lewis rats reveals that
35 animals with progressive CKD initiated by 5/6 nephrectomy (panel B) have more robust nuclear
   localization of NFkB p65 subunit, particularly in tubular epithelial cells (black arrowheads) relative to
                                                           -82
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   the non-progressive renal insufficiency initiated by unilateral nephrectomy in control animals (panel
   A). Tissues harvested six weeks post-nephrectomy. Magnification at 200X.
                Panel C: Western blot analysis for NFkB p65 in the cytoplasmic (' C' ) and nuclear (' N'  )
   protein extracts of Lewis rat kidney tissue that have undergone the 5/6 nephrectomy. Comparing
 5 weeks 1 and 13, where gtubulin levels (loading control) are relatively consistent, nuclear NFkB p65
   increases over time, consistent with the immunohistochemistry results.
                Panel D: Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) on nuclear extracts confirms that the
   NFkB that localizes to the nucleus following 5/6 nephrectomy is activated for DNA binding. Lanes
   represent nuclear extracts prepared from two animals at each time point.
10              The NFkB pathway is progressively activated in the 5/6 nephrectomy model of chronic
   kidney disease. Immunohistochemistry for the NFkB p65 subunit in kidney tissues of Lewis rats was
   performed.
                Figure 18A-D reveals that animals with progressive CKD initiated by 5/6 nephrectomy (panel
   B) have more robust nuclear localization of NFkB p65 subunit, particularly in tubular epithelial cells
15 (black arrowheads) relative to the non-progressive renal insufficiency initiated by unilateral
   nephrectomy in control animals (panel A). Tissues harvested six weeks post-nephrectomy.
   Magnification at 200X.
                Figure 18C shows Western blot analysis for NFkB p65 in the cytoplasmic (' C' ) and nuclear
   (' N' ) protein extracts of Lewis rat kidney tissuebat have undergone the 5/6 nephrectomy. Comparing
20 weeks 1 and 13, where gtubulin levels (loading control) are relatively consistent, nuclear NFkB p65
   increases over time, consistent with the immunohistochemistry results.
                Figure 18D shows an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) on nuclear extracts and
   confirms that the NFkB that localizes to the nucleus following 5/6 nephrectomy is activated for DNA
   binding. Lanes represent nuclear extracts prepared from two animals at each time point. 1 mg of
25 nuclear protein was incubated with 5 ng of NFkB DNA binding site, electrophoresed on a 6% DNA
   retardation gel, then subsequently stained with ethidium bromide.
                Intra-renal delivery of NKA cells reduces NFkB nuclear localization. Multiple defined
   subpopulations of renal cells have been isolated and assayed in vivo for bioactivity in improving renal
   function in the 5/6 nephrectomy model of CKD (Presnell et al. 2010 supra). NKA cells demonstrated
30 bioactivity whereas other subpopulations did not (Kelley et al. 2010 supra).
                Figure 18E shows that Lewis rats with established CKD that received intra-renal injection of
   NKA (A) or non-bioactive renal cells (B). Lewis rats with established CKD received intra-renal
   injection of NKA (A) or non-bioactive renal cells (B). At 6 months post-treatment, tissues were
   harvested and assayed by immunohistochemistry for the NFkB p65 subunit. Tissues from NKA
35 treated animals exhibited less nuclear localization of NFkB p65, particularly in the proximal tubules,
                                                         -83
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   compared to tissues from animals treated with non-bioactive renal cells, suggesting that the NKA
   treatment participated in attenuating the NFkB pathway activity in vivo.
                Analysis of microRNA content of secreted vesicles isolated from human and rat NKA
   conditioned media by high-speed centrifugation using PCR-based arrays of known sequences
 5 identified several microRNA species that may influence immune responses via NFkB based on
   literature reports (Marquez RT et al. (2010) Am JPhysiolGastrointestLiver Physiol 298:G535;
   Taganov KD et al. (2006) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103:1248 1) or predictive algorithms
   (http://mirbase.org - miRBase is hosted and maintained in the Faculty of Life Sciences at the
   University of Manchester).
10              microRNA in vesicles                      Target mRNA
                miR-21                                    Pellino-I (Marquez et al.)
                miR-146a                                  IRAK], TRAF6 (Taganov et al.)
                miR-124, miR-151                          NFKB/RelA (miRBase)
                The in vivo and in vitro findings provide insight on how bioactive kidney cells (NKA) might
15 improve renal function in chronically-diseased kidneys by modulating immune response pathways
   such as those affected by NFkB activation. Activated NFkB (p65 nuclear localization, particularly in
   proximal tubule cells) is associated with the establishment of chronic kidney disease in the 5/6
   nephrectomy rodent model and was attenuated by NKA treatment. The in vitro response of proximal
   tubule cells (HK-2) to NKA conditioned medium mimics the in vivo attenuation of NFkB nuclear
20 localization in response to NKA treatment. Putative mediators of cell-cell inhibition of NFkB
   activation (microRNAs) were identified in NKA conditioned medium. Taken together, these data
   support the hypothesis that one mechanism by which intra-renal delivery of bioactive kidney cells
   improves renal function might be via cell-cell transfer of components, e.g., RNA, that modulate
   immune responses in resident kidney cells.
25
   Example 15 - Functional evaluation of NKA Constructs
                Renal cell populations seeded onto gelatin or HA-based hydrogels were viable and
   maintained a tubular epithelial functional phenotype during an in vitro maturation of 3 days as
   measured by transcriptomic, proteomic, secretomic and confocal immunofluorescence assays. To
30 investigate a potential mechanism by which NKA Constructs could impact a disease state, the effect
   of conditioned media on TGF-;ignaling pathways related to tubulo -interstitial fibrosis associated
   with CKD progression was evaluated. Conditioned medium was observed to attenuate TGF-p-induced
   epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in vitro in a human proximal tubular cell line (HK2).
                Materials and Methods.
35              Biomaterials. Biomaterials were prepared as beads (homogenous, spherical configuration)
   or as particles (heterogenous population with jagged edges). Gelatin beads (Cultispher S and
                                                          -84
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Cultispher GL) manufactured by Percell Biolytica (Astorp, Sweden) were purchased from Sigma
   Aldrich (St. Louis, MO) and Fisher Scientific (Pittsburgh, PA), respectively. Crosslinked HA and
   HA/gelatin (HyStemTM and ExtracelTM from Glycosan BioSystems, Salt Lake City, UT) particles
   were formed from lyophilized sponges made according to the manufacturer' s instructions. Gelatin
 5 (Sigma) particles were formed from crosslinked, lyophilized sponges.
                PCL was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). PLGA 50:50 was purchased from
   Durect Corp. (Pelham, AL). PCL and PLGA beads were prepared using a modified double emulsion
   (W/O/W) solvent extraction method. PLGA particles were prepared using a solvent casting porogen
   leaching technique. All beads and particles were between 65 and 355 microns when measured in a dry
10 state.
                Cell isolation, preparation and culture. Cadaveric human kidneys were procured through
   National Disease Research Institute (NDRI) in compliance with all NIH guidelines governing the use
   of human tissues for research purposes. Canine kidneys were procured from a contract research
   organization (Integra). Rat kidneys (21 day old Lewis) were obtained from Charles River Labs (MI).
15 The preparation of primary renal cell populations (UNFX) and defined sub-populations (B2) from
   whole rat, canine and human kidney has been previously described (Aboushwareb et al. World J Urol
   26(4):295-300; 2008; Kelley et al. supra 2010; Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328). In brief, kidney
   tissue was dissociated enzymatically in a buffer containing 4.0 units/mL dispase (Stem Cell
   Technologies, Inc., Vancouver BC, Canada) and 300 units/ml collagenase IV (Worthington
20 Biochemical, Lakewood NJ), then red blood cells and debris were removed by centrifugation through
    15% iodixanol (Optiprep@, Axis Shield, Norton, MA) to yield UNFX. UNFX cells were seeded onto
   tissue culture treated polystyrene plates (NUNC, Rochester NY) and cultured in 50:50 media, a 1:1
   mixture of high glucose DMEM:Keratinocyte Serum Free Medium (KSFM) containing 5% FBS,
   2.5pag EGF, 25mg BPE, IX ITS (insulin/transferrin/sodium selenite medium supplement), and
25 antibiotic/antimycotic (all from Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA). B2 cells were isolated from UNFX cultures
   by centrifugation through a four-step iodixanol (OptiPrep; 60% w/v in unsupplemented KSFM)
   density gradient layered specifically for rodent (16%, 13%, I%, and 7%), canine (16%, 11%, 10%,
   and 7%), or human (16%, 11%, 9%, and 7%) (Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328; Kelley et al. supra
   2010). Gradients were centrifuged at 800 x g for 20 minutes at room temperature (without brake).
30 Bands of interest were removed via pipette and washed twice in sterile phosphate buffered saline
   (PBS).
                Cell/biomaterial composites (NKA Constructs). For in vitro analysis of cell functionality
   on biomaterials, a uniform layer of biomaterials (prepared as described above) was layered onto one
   well of a 6-well low attachment plate (Costar #3471, Coming). Human UNFX or B2 cells (2.5 x 105
35 per well) were seeded directly onto the biomaterial. For studies of adherence of canine cells to
   biomaterials, 2.5 x 106 UNFX cells were seeded with 50l packed volume of biomaterials in a non
                                                       -85
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

        adherent 24-well plate (Costar #3473, Corning). After 4 hours on a rocking platform, canine NKA
        Constructs were matured overnight at 37' C in a 5% CO2 incubator. The next day, live/dead staining
        was performed using a live/dead staining assay kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer' s
        instructions. Rat NKA Constructs were prepared in a 60 cc syringe on a roller bottle apparatus with a
 5      rotational speed of 1 RPM.
                   For the transcriptomic, secretomic, and proteomic analyses described below, NKA Constructs
        were matured for 3 days. Cells were then harvested for transcriptomic or proteomic analyses and
        conditioned media was collected for secretomic profiling.
                   Functional analysis of tubular cell associated enzyme activity. Canine NKA Constructs
10      (1Opl loose packed volume) in 24-well plates were evaluated using an assay for leucine
        aminopeptidase (LAP) activity adapted from a previously published method (Tate et al. Methods
        Enzymol 113:400-419; 1985). Briefly, 0.5ml of 0.3mM L-leucine p-nitroanalide (Sigma) in PBS was
        added to NKA Constructs for 1 hour at room temperature. Wells were sampled in duplicate and
        absorbance at 405nm recorded as a measure of LAP activity. LLC-PK I cell lysate (American Type
15      Culture Collection, or ATCC) served as the positive control.
                   Transcriptomic profiling. Poly-adenylated RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Plus Mini
        Kit (Qiagen, CA). Concentration and integrity was determined by UV spectrophotometry. cDNA was
        generated from 1.4 pg isolated RNA using the SuperScript VILO cDNA Synthesis Kit (Invitrogen).
        Expression levels of target transcripts were examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain
20      reaction (qRT-PCR) using commercially available primers and probes (Table 15.1) and an ABI-Prism
        7300 Real Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, CA). Amplification was performed using
        TaqMan Gene Expression Master Mix (AB, Cat# 4369016) and TATA Box Binding Protein gene
        (TBP) served as the endogenous control. Each reaction consisted of 10l Master Mix (2X), 1Pl
        Primer and Probe (20X) and 91p cDNA. Samples were run in triplicate.
25      Table 15.1
                                                              Human TaqMa Primers/Probes
                                          Gene                                           Atbrv.            Marker           TaqMan Cat*
 Aquapon 2                                                                                AQP2  Distal CoUectg Duct Tubule Hs1l66640 m1
 bpithelialCadhei CCdhrin 1,T e                                                       CDHIlECAD          Distl luwe        HsD0170423 ml
 Neuronal Cdher/Cadhrr          2, Type I                                             CDH2/NCAD        ProximaITule        HsDD169953 ml
 Colis,Tntrsic Factor-Cobalamin Receptor                                                  CURN         ProximalTubule      HD53607 ml
 NeNPHS1                                                                                            Glomerularodcyte       Hsc0l90466 ml
 Podi                                                                                    NPH82      Grloirilr/Podrcyte     HsD0292 m1
 Er        iEPo                                                                                       Kiducy lrstinu       HsD1071097 ml
 Cvochromc P450, Family 24, Subfamily A. Polycepid 1 vitamin D 24-Hydroxylas>            CYP2R1        ProximalTbie        HsD1379 7 76_ml
 Vasular Endoiheliol GrowthFacter A                                                      vEGFA       Endotheialvoascular   HsO900055 ml
 Plateet/Endothelil Cal Adheion Molecule                                                PECAMi      EndetheiiolVscular     HsW0169777 ml
 smoth Muscle Myosin eavy Chaisi                                                    MYHll/sMMHC         SmoothMuscle       Ms4J224610 ml
 caCN                                                                                                   smoothMuscle       Hs0154543 m1
 TATABox BikdinigProtein                                                                   TBP       FndcgenousCountrol    Hs999999-I0_ml
                   Secretomic profiling. Conditioned medium from human NKA Constructs was collected and
        frozen at -80' C. Samples were evaluated for biomarker concentration quantitation. The results for a
                                                                     -86
        9871238_1
                (GHMatiers) Pe18a3AU.2

   given biomarker concentration in conditioned media were normalized relative to the concentration of
   the same biomarker in conditioned media from control cultures (2D culture without biomaterial) and
   expressed as a unitless ratio.
             Proteomic profiling. Protein from three independent replicates was extracted from
 5 cell/biomaterial composites and pooled for analysis by 2D gel electrophoresis. All reagents were
   from Invitrogen. Isoelectric focusing (IEF) was conducted by adding 30pg of protein resuspended in
   200pl of ZOOM 2D protein solubilizer #1 (Cat# ZSI0001), ZOOM carrier ampholytes pH 4-7 (Cat#
   ZM0022), and 2M DTT (Cat# 15508-013) to pi 4-7 ZOOM IEF Strips (Cat# ZM0O 12). Following
   electrophoresis for 18 hours at 500V, IEF strips were loaded onto NuPAGE Novex 4-12% Bis-Tris
10 ZOOM [PG well gels (Cat# NP0330BOX) for SDS-PAGE separation and electrophoresed for 45 min
   at 200V in MES buffer (Cat# NP0002). Proteins were visualized using SYPRO Ruby protein gel
   stain (Cat# S-12000) according to the manufacturer' s instructions
             Confocal microscopy. NKA Constructs prepared from human or rat UNFX or B2 cells were
   matured for 3 days and then fixed in 2% paraformaldehyde for 30 minutes. Fixed NKA Constructs
15 were blocked and permeabilized by incubation in 10% goat serum (Invitrogen) in D-PBS (Invitrogen)
   + 0.2% Triton X-100 (Sigma) for 1 hour at room temperature (RT). For inmmunofluorescence, NKA
   Constructs were labeled with primary antibodies (Table 15.2) at a final concentration of Sig/nil
   overnight at RT. Labeled NKA constructs were washed twice with 2% goat serum/D-PBS + 0/2%
   Triton X-100 and incubated with goat or rabbit TRITC conjugated anti-mouse IgG2A (Invitrogen)
20 secondary antibody at 5 tg/ml. For double labeling with DBA (Dolichos biflorus agglutinin), NKA
   construct candidates were further incubated with FITC conjugated DBA (Vector Labs) diluted to 2
   mg/ml in 2% goat serun/D-PBS + 0.2% Triton X-100 for 2hrs at RT.
   Table 15.2
     Antibody                      Source         Manufacturer        Catalog#               Target
     IgGl ctrI                     Mouse                BD             557273        Background control
     IgG ctrl                        goat           Invitrogen         026202        Background control
     IgG etrl                       rabbit          Invitrogen         026102        Background control
     N-Cadherin                    Mouse                 BD            610920          Proximal tubules
     E-Cadherin                    Mouse        |       BD             610182            Distaltubules
     Cubilin (A-20)                  goat           Santa Cruz        Sc-20609         Proximal tubules
     GGT-1                          Rabbit          Santa Cruz        Sc-20638         Tubular epithelial
     Megalin                       Rabbit           Santa Cruz        Sc-25470         Proximal tubules
25           Samples were washed twice with D-PBS and optically sectioned using a Zeiss LSM510 laser
   scanning confocal system (Cellular Imaging Core, Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center) running LSM
   Image software (Zeiss) or with a Pathway 855 confocal microscope (BD Biosciences).
             Analysis of TGF-pnediated EMT in HK2 cells.        HK2 cells (ATCC) were cultured in 50:50
   media in fibronectin or collagen (IV) coated culture dishes (BD Biosciences). For EMT assays, HK2
                                                     -87
   9871238_1
          (GHMatlers) Pe18a3AU.2

   cells were seeded in 24-well collagen (IV) coated plates at 70-80% confluency with 50:50 media or
   conditioned media collected from either two dimensional (2D) human UNFX cultures or NKA
   Constructs made with human UNFX that were matured for 3 days prior to media collection. TGF-P
   induction was initiated by adding 10 ng/ml to the culture media 3 days prior to isolating RNA from
 5 the cells for the EMT assay. EMT was monitored by qRT-PCR by analyzing the relative expression
   of E-cadherin (an epithelial marker) and calponin (mesenchymal marker) at the end of the three day
   incubation period. RNA was prepared from harvested HK2 cells for TaqMan qRT-PCR analysis as
   described above. Statistical analysis was done using standard two tailed Student' s ttest assuming
   equal variance for each sample. Confidence intervals of 95% (p-value < 0.05) and 99% (p-value <
10 0.01) were used to determine statistical significance.
                In vivo implantation of acellular biomaterials and NKA Constructs. Lewis rats (6 to 8
   weeks old) were purchased from Charles River (Kalamazoo, MI). All experimental procedures were
   performed under PHS and IACUC guidelines of the Carolinas Medical Center. Under isoflurane
   anesthesia, female Lewis rats (approximately 2 to 3 months old) underwent a midline incision, and the
15 left kidney was exposed. 35[1 of packed biomaterials (acellular biomaterial or NKA Construct) were
   introduced by microinjection into the renal parenchyma. Two injection trajectories were used: (i)
   from each pole toward the cortex (referred to as cortical injection), or (ii) from the renal midline
   toward the pelvis (referred to as medullary injection). Rats were sacrificed at 1, 4, or 8 weeks post
   injection. No early deaths occurred. Study design for the acellular implantation study is presented in
20 Table 15.3 (ND = not done).
                Renal Histology. Representative kidney samples were collected and placed in 10% buffer
   formalin for 24 hours. Sections were dehydrated in ascending grades of ethanol and embedded in
   paraffin. Sections (5 [mi) were cut, mounted on charged slides, and processed for hematoxylin and
   eosin (H&E), Masson' s trichrome and Periodic Acid Sthiff (PAS) staining in accordance with
25 standard staining protocols (Prophet et al., Armed Forces Institute of Pathology: Laboratory methods
   in histotechnology. Washington, DC: American Registry of Pathology; 1992). Digital
   microphotographs were captured at total magnification of x40, x100 and x400 using a Nikon Eclipse
   50i microscope fitted with a Digital Sight (DS-Ul) camera. Renal morphology changes were assessed
   by commonly used (Shackelford et al. Toxicol Pathol 30(1):93-96; 2002) severity grade schemes
30 (grades 1, 2, 3, 4), to which descriptive terms (minimal, mild, moderate, marked/severe) were applied
   to describe the degree of glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy and dilatation, tubular casts, and
   interstitial fibrosis, and inflammation observed.
   Table 15.3
                                                      -88
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                       Study design for evaluating cellular biomaterials
                                   in healthy adult Lewis rat kidneys
                                                                          Time in vivo
      Biomaterial:
                                                               1 week                      4 weeks
      PCL Beads                                                  n=1                          n=1
      Gelatin Beads                                              n=1                           ND
      Gelatin Particles                                          n=1                          n=1
      HA/Gelatin Particles                                       n=2                           ND
      HA Particles                                               n=1                          n=1
      PLGA Particles                                             n=1                           ND
      PLGA Beads                                                 n=1                           ND
            Results
            Response of mammalian kidney tissue to injection of biomaterials into the renal
   parenchyma. Biomaterials were analyzed for potential use in renal cell/biomaterial composites by
 5 direct injection into healthy rat kidneys (Table 15.3). Tissue responses were evaluated by measuring
   the degree ofhistopathology parameters (inflammation, fibrosis, necrosis,
   calcification/mineralization) and biocompatibility parameters (biomaterial degradation, neo
   vascularization, and neo-tissue formation) at I and 4 weeks post-injection.
            Figure 19A-B shows in vivo evaluation of biomaterials at I week post-implantation.
10 Trichrome X 10 low power image of kidney cross section showing biomaterial aggregate. Trichrome
   X40: Close-up of biomaterial aggregate. H&E X400: High magnification image of biomaterial
   aggregate to evaluate extent ofcell/tissue infiltration. Each kidney was injected at two locations as
   described in Materials and Methods. At I week post-implantation, the host tissue responses elicited
   by each biomaterial tested were generally similar; however, gelatin hydrogels appeared to elicit less
15 intense bistopathological and more biocompatible responses.
            Figure 19C shows in vivo evaluation of biomaterials at 4 weeks post-implantation. At 4
   weeks post-implantation, the severity of histopathology parameters in tissues injected with HA or
   gelatin particles were qualitatively reduced compared to I week post-implantation. Gelatin particles
   were nearly completely resorbed and less giant cell reaction was observed than in tissues that received
20 HA particles. In most cases where biomaterials were injected via the medullary injection trajectory
   (e.g., deeper into the medulla/pelvis), undesirable outcomes including obstruction leading to
   hydronephrosis, inflammatory reactions of greater severity, and renal arteriolar and capillary micro
   embolization leading to infarction was observed (data not shown).
                                                      -89-

                Assessing functional phenotype of therapeutically-relevant renal cell populations with
   biomaterials. Therapeutically-relevant renal cell populations (UNFX) that extended survival and
   increased renal function in a rodent model of chronic kidney disease after direct injection into renal
   parenchyma have been characterized (Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328; Kelley et al. supra 2010) and
 5 methods for their isolation, characterization, and expansion have been developed and translated across
   multiple species (Presnell et al. 2010 supra). To assess whether UNFX cells adhere to, remain viable,
   and retain a predominantly tubular, epithelial phenotype when incorporated into NKA Constructs,
   transcriptomic, secretomic, proteomic, and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy analyses were
   conducted on NKA Constructs produced from UNFX cells and various biomaterials.
10              Adherence and viability. Canine-derived UNFX cells were seeded with gelatin beads, PCL
   beads, PLGA beads, HA particles, and HA/gelatin particles as described (3 NKA Constructs per
   biomaterial). Cell distribution and viability were assessed one day after seeding by live/dead staining
                Figure 20A-D shows live/dead staining of NKA constructs seeded with canine UNFX cells
   (A=gelatin beads; B=PCL beads; C=HA/gelatin particles; D=HA particles). Green indicates live
15 cells; red indicates dead cells. (A) Gelatin beads; (B) PCL beads; (C) HA/gelatin particles; and (D)
   HA particles. Viable cells may be observed on all hydrogel-based NKA Constructs.
                UNFX cells adhered robustly to naturally-derived, hydrogel-based biomaterials such as
   gelatin beads and HA/gelatin particles (black arrows in A, D), but showed minimal adherence to
   synthetic PCL (B) or PLGA beads (not shown). Cells did not adhere to HA particles (C) but showed
20 evidence of bioresponse (i.e., spheroid formation). Functional viability of the seeded UNFX cells on
   hydrogel-based NKA Constructs was confirmed by assaying for leucine aminopeptidase, a proximal
   tubule-associated hydrolase (data not shown).
                Transcriptomic profiling. The gene expression profiles of human UNFX cells in hydrogel
   based NKA Constructs (3 NKA Constructs per biomaterial) and parallel 2D cultures of UNFX cells
25 were compared by quantitative transcriptomic analysis.
                Figure 20E-G shows transcriptomic profiling of NKA constructs. TC: primary human UNFX
   cells cultured in 2D. Gelatin: NKA Construct composed of human UNFX cells and gelatin hydrogel.
   HA-Gel: NKA Construct composed of human UNFX cells and HA/gelatin particles. qRT-PCR data
   presented in graphical and tabular format. Transcripts examined fell into four principal categories: (i)
30 Tubular: aquaporin 2(AQ2), E-cadherin (ECAD), erythropoietin (EPO), N-cadherin (NCAD),
   Cytochrome P450, Family 24, Subfamily A, Polypeptide 1 - aka Vitamin D 24-Hydroxylase (CYP),
   cubilin, nephrin; (ii) Mesenchymal: calponin (CNN 1), smooth muscle myosin heavy chain
   (SMMHC); (iii) Endothelial: vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet endothelial cell
   adhesion molecule (PECAM); and (iv) Glomerular: podocin. Overall, tubular marker expression was
35 comparable between hydrogel-based NKA Constructs and 2D UNFX cultures. Similarly, endothelial
   markers (VEGF and PECAM) were comparable. In contrast, the glomerular marker podocin exhibited
                                                        -90
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   significant variation among NKA Constructs. Podocin levels in HA/gelatin-based NKA Constructs
   were most comparable with those observed in 2D UNFX cultures. Interestingly, mesenchymal marker
   (CNN 1 and SMMHC) expression was significantly down-regulated (p < 0.05) in hydrogel-based
   NKA Constructs relative to 2D UNFX cultures, suggesting that fibroblastic sub-populations of UNFX
 5 may not propagate as well in the hydrogel-based NKA Constructs in the renal media formulation.
                Secretomic profiling. NKA Constructs were produced with human UNFX and B2 cells and
   gelatin or HA/gelatin hydrogel (one NKA Construct per biomaterial per cell type = 4 NKA Constructs
   total).
                Figure 21A-B shows the secretomic profiling of NKA Constructs. Data is presented as a
10 3D:2D ratio. NKA Constructs were produced from human UNFX or B2 cells and gelatin (Hydrogel
    1) or HA/gelatin (Hydrogel 2) hydrogels as described in Materials and Methods. Secretomic profiling
   was performed on conditioned media from NKA Constructs matured for 3 days and compared with
   parallel 2D cultures of human UNFX or B2 cells by calculating the ratio of analyte expression of
   NKA Constructs (three-dimensional, or 3D, culture) to 2D culture (3D:2D ratio). For each of the three
15 NKA Constructs seeded with UNFX cells, the 3D:2D ratios were at or close to 1, suggesting that the
   seeding process and 3 days of maturation on these biomaterials had little impact on the secretomic
   profile of UNFX cells. For NKA Constructs seeded with B2 cells, a similar result of a 3D:2D ratio at
   or near 1 was observed, providing additional evidence that the seeding process and 3 days of
   maturation on these biomaterials had little impact on the secretomic profile of therapeutically-relevant
20 renal cells.
                Proteomic profiling. Proteomic profiles of a given cell or tissue are produced by separating
   total cellular proteins using 2D gel electrophoresis and have been used to identify specific biomarkers
   associated with renal disease (Vidal et al. Clin Sci (Lond) 109(5):421-430; 2005).
                Figure 22A-B shows proteomic profiling of NKA Constructs. NKA Constructs were
25 produced with human UNFX cells and biomaterials as indicated. Proteins in total protein extracts
   were separated by 2D gel electrophoresis as described in Materials and Methods. In this experiment,
   proteomic profiling was used to compare protein expression in human UNFX cells in NKA
   Constructs (gelatin or HA/gelatin hydrogel-based, 3 NKA Constructs per biomaterial) and in 2D
   tissue culture. The proteome profiles of total protein isolated from NKA Constructs or 2D cultures of
30 UNFX cells were essentially identical, providing additional evidence that the seeding process and 3
   days maturation on these biomaterials had little impact on the proteomes expressed by UNFX cells.
                Confocal microscopy. Retention of the tubular epithelial phenotype of rat and human B2
   cells (Presnell et al. 2010 supra) in NKA Constructs was evaluated by confocal imaging of
   established biomarkers: Figure 23A-C shows confocal microscopy of NKA Constructs. Confocal
35 microscopy of NKA Constructs produced with human (A) or rat (B, C) B2 cells and gelatin hydrogel.
   (A) E-cadherin (red - solid white arrows), DBA (green - dashed green arrows) and gelatin hydrogel
                                                       -91
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   bead is visible with DIC optics. (B) DNA visualized with DAPI staining (blue - solid white arrows)
   and each of the following markers in green (dashed white arrows): IgG control, N-cadherin, E
   cadherin, cytokeratin 8/18/18, DBA. (C) double-labeling images of markers and colors as indicated.
   E-cadherin and DBA in human NKA Constructs and E-cadherin, DBA, N-cadherin, cytokeratin
 5 8/18/19, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT-1), and megalin in rat NKA Constructs. Optical
   sectioning of confocal images also allowed evaluation of the extent of cell infiltration into the
   biomaterial after seeding and 3 days of maturation. B2 cells in human and rat NKA Constructs
   exhibited expression of multiple tubular epithelial markers. Optical sectioning revealed minimal cell
   infiltration of the hydrogel construct, with cells generally confined to the surface of the biomaterial.
10              In vivo responses to implantation of NKA construct prototypes. Based on the in vivo
   responses to biomaterial injection into renal parenchyma and the in vitro phenotype and functional
   characterization of UNFX and B2 cells in NKA Constructs described above, gelatin hydrogel was
   selected to evaluate the in vivo response to NKA Construct injection into renal parenchyma in healthy
   Lewis rats. NKA Constructs were produced from syngeneic B2 cells and implanted into two animals,
15 which were sacrificed at 1, 4, and 8 weeks post-implantation. All animals survived to scheduled
   necropsy when sections of renal tissues were harvested, sectioned, and stained with Trichrome,
   hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Periodic Acid Schiff (PAS).
                Figure 24A-B shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Constructs at 1 and 4 weeks post
   implantation. Trichrome X10 low power image of kidney cross section showing biomaterial
20 aggregate. Trichrome X40: Close-up of biomaterial aggregate. H&E/PAS X400: High
   magnification image of biomaterial aggregate to evaluate extent of cell/tissue infiltration. Each
   kidney was injected at two locations as described in Materials and Methods.
                Figure 24A shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Constructs at 1 week post-implantation. At 1
   week post injection, gelatin beads were present as focal aggregates (left panel, circled area) of
25 spherical and porous material staining basophilic and surrounded by marked fibro-vascular tissue and
   phagocytic multi-nucleated macrophages and giant cells. Fibrovascular tissue was integrated within
   the beads and displayed tubular epithelial components indicative of neo-kidney tissue formation.
   Additionally, tubular and vasculoglomerular structures were identified by morphology (PAS panels).
                Figure 24B shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Constructs at 4 weeks post-implantation. By 4
30 weeks post-injection, the hydrogel was completely resorbed and the space replaced by progressive
   renal regeneration and repair with minimal fibrosis (note the numerous functional tubules within
   circled area of 4-week Trichrome panel).
                Figure 25A-D shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Construct at 8 weeks post-implantation.
   Trichrome X10 low power image of kidney cross section showing biomaterial aggregate. Trichrome
35 X40: Close-up of biomaterial aggregate. H&E/PAS X400: High magnification image of biomaterial
   aggregate to evaluate extent of cell/tissue infiltration. (A) Moderate chronic inflammation
                                                        -92
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   (macrophages, plasma cells and lymphocytes), moderate numbers of hemosiderin-laden macrophages
   (chronic hemorrhage due to injection) with marked fibrovascular response (blue stained by Masson' s
   trichrome - black arrows).; (B) Higher magnification (trichrome stained, x400) of boxed area of (A)
   showing regenerative response induction consistent with neo-kidney tissue formation (C)
 5 Representative of adjacent (normal) kidney parenchyma showing typical cortical glomeruli
   morphology HE, x400); (D) HE stained section, x400 comparing new glomeruli morphology
   observed in treatment area vs. Figure 154C.
                Figure 25A-D shows in vivo evaluation of NKA Construct at 8 weeks post-implantation. At 8
   weeks post-implantation, evidence of neo-kidney like tissue formation was observed, consistent with
10 induction of early events in nephrogenesis. Comparison of the area of regenerative induction (B, D)
   with adjacent cortical parenchyma (C) showed presence of multiple S-shaped bodies and newly
   formed glomeruli.
                Effect of conditioned media from NKA Constructs on TGF-Pnduced EMT in HK2
   cells. The development of tubulo-interstitial fibrosis during the progression of CKD is associated with
15 TGF-P mediated EMT of tubular epithelial cells (Zeisberg et al. Am J Pathol 160(6):2001-2008;
   2002). Also, attenuation of TGF- [ athways was observed in vivo in a rodent model of progressive
   CKD where survival was extended and renal function improved by treatment with UNFX and B2
   cells (Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328). The human proximal tubular cell line HK2 has been well
   established as an in vitro model system to test the stimulatory or inhibitory effects of small molecules
20 or proteins on TGF- Pnduced EMT (Dudas et al. Nephrol Dial Transplant 24(5):1406-1416; 2009;
   Hills et al. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 296(3):F614-621; 2009). To investigate a potential
   mechanism by which NKA Constructs might affect renal tissue responses post-implantation,
   conditioned medium collected from NKA Constructs produced with UNFX cells and hydrogel was
   evaluated in the HK2 EMT assay system.
25              Figure 26 shows conditioned medium from NKA Constructs attenuates TGF-Pnduced EMT
   in HK2 cells in vitro. EMT is monitored by quantitating the relative expression of ECAD (epithelial)
   and CNN 1 (mesenchymal) markers. HK2 cells were cultured in 50:50 media (Control and TGFB
   Control samples) or conditioned medium (CM) from 2D cultures of human UNFX cells (TC) or NKA
   Constructs produced from human UNFX cells and either Gelatin or HA/Gelatin as indicated. To
30 induce EMT, 10 ng/ml TGF- vas added to each sample (except Control) for 3 d ays prior to assay.
   When HK2 cells were cultured in 50:50 media (Control), ECAD (epithelial marker) was expressed at
   higher levels than CNN 1 (mesenchymal marker). When TGF-Ps added to the media for 3 days
   (TGFB Control), ECAD expression was significantly down-regulated with a concomitant up
   regulation of CNN 1, consistent with induction of an EMT event. Conditioned medium from 2D
35 UNFX cell cultures significantly (p < 0.05 for both ECAD and CNN 1) attenuated the EMT response
   of HK2 cells to TGF-[TC CM). Conditioned m edium from NKA Constructs (Gelatin CM and
                                                       -93
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   HA/Gelatin CM) also attenuated the EMT response to TGF-Phowever the overall effect was less
   than that observed with conditioned medium from 2D UNFX cell cultures (significant - p < 0.05 - for
   ECAD with both NKA Constructs and trending toward control though not statistically significant for
   CNN 1). Additional mesenchymal markers were screened and yielded similar results (data not shown).
 5 These data suggest that NKA Constructs could potentially affect TGF-[ athways associated with
   tubulo-interstitial fibrosis in vivo in a manner similar to that observed with cell-based treatment
   (Presnell et al. WO/2010/056328). These data also suggest that the in vitro EMT assay has potential
   application for screening/optimizing/monitoring the biotherapeutic efficacy of NKA Constructs if in
   vivo responses can be demonstrated to have a statistically significant association with in vitro EMT
10 responses, thereby potentially reducing the need for time consuming and expensive in vivo assays.
                This study investigated the responses of mammalian renal parenchyma to implantation of
   synthetic and natural biomaterials, both acellular and as bioactive renal cell/biomaterial composites
   (i.e., NKA Constructs). A combination of in vitro functional assays and in vivo regenerative
   outcomes were analyzed to functionally screen candidate biomaterials for potential incorporation into
15 a NKA construct prototype. Implantation of acellular hydrogel-based biomaterials into renal
   parenchyma (Figure 19) was typically associated with minimal fibrosis or chronic inflammation and
   no evidence of necrosis by 4 weeks post-implantation. Moderate cellular/ tissue in-growth and neo
   vascularization was observed, with minimal remnant biomaterial. Based on these in vivo data,
   hydrogel-based biomaterials were selected to produce NKA Constructs with which to evaluate in vitro
20 biofunctionality and in vivo regenerative potential. In vitro confirmation of material biocompatibility
   was provided through live/dead analysis of NKA Constructs (Figure 20). Gelatin-containing
   hydrogels were associated with robust adherence of primary renal cell populations. Phenotypic and
   functional analysis of NKA Constructs produced from bioactive primary renal cell populations
   (UNFX or B2) and hydrogel biomaterials was consistent with continued maintenance of a tubular
25 epithelial cell phenotype. Transcriptomic, secretomic, proteomic, and confocal microscopy analyses
   of NKA Construct confirmed no significant differences relative to primary renal cells seeded in 2D
   culture. Finally, implantation of hydrogel-based NKA construct into the renal parenchyma of healthy
   adult rodents was associated with minimal inflammatory and fibrotic response and regeneration of
   neo-kidney like tissue by 8 weeks post-implantation.
30              Taken together, these data provide evidence suggesting that a regenerative response was
   induced in vivo by NKA Constructs. These studies represent the first in vivo, intra-renal investigations
   of the biological response of mammalian kidney to implantation of a therapeutically-relevant primary
   renal cell/biomaterial composite. Observed results are suggestive that NKA Constructs have the
   potential to both facilitate regeneration of neo-kidney tissue and attenuate non-regenerative (e.g.,
35 reparative healing) responses.
                                                         -94
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                Bioresponse of Mammalian Kidney to Implantation of Polymeric Materials. In another
   study, host tissue responses to intra-renal injection of natural and synthetic biomaterials in rodent
   kidney were investigated to evaluate candidate biomaterials for forming cell/biomaterial composites
   with bioactive renal cell populations (Presnell et al. supra 2010). Methods: Natural biomaterials
 5 included gelatin and hyaluronic acid (HA). Synthetic biomaterials included polycaprolactone (PCL)
   and poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA). Candidate biomaterials were evaluated in two discrete
   physical conformations: homogenous, spherical beads or heterogenous and non-uniform particles.
   PCL and PLGA beads were prepared using a modified double emulsion (water/oil/water) solvent
   extraction method. Gelatin beads were purchased (Cultispher-S@, Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO).
10 PLGA particles were prepared using a solvent casting porogen leaching technique; gelatin and HA
   particles were prepared from cross-linked, lyophilized foam. Two injections of 35 l of loosely
   packed biomaterials were delivered to the left kidney parenchyma of 3 month old Lewis rats.
   Histopathologic evaluation of formalin-fixed sections of kidney tissue at 1 and 4 weeks post-injection
   was conducted using a semi-quantitative grading severity scale from 0 (absent) to 4 (marked) of
15 inflammation, tissue/cellular in-growth, neo-vascularization, material degradation, and fibro-cellular
   responses. Overall scores were calculated as the ratio of % positive to % negative response (the
   higher the overall score the superior outcome).
                Results. Histopathologic evaluation performed on biomaterial candidates - representative
   40X images of kidneys harvested 1 week post-implantation, sections stained with Masson' s
20 Trichrome (data not shown). Materials composed of polymers of natural origin, such as gelatin and
   HA were associated with milder fibro-cellular response and chronic inflammation, and greater
   cellular in-growth, neo-vascularization, biomaterial degradation, and necessary inflammation required
   for tissue healing and integration when compared to the synthetic biomaterials, such as PLGA and
   PCL (organized fibrous encapsulation). Summary of histopathologic evaluation scoring. Scores were
25 averaged by material composition (meanSD). The synthetic materials (PLGA and PCL) scored the
   lowest, and gelatin materials generally scored higher than HA materials.         This trend is most
   pronounced at the 4 week time point. Due to factors unrelated to the material injections, not all the
   samples tested at 1 week were available for analysis at 4 weeks. The number of samples that are
   included in the gelatin, HA, and synthetic groups are 3, 4, 3 at 1 week and 2, 3, 1 at 4 weeks,
30 respectively.
                Biomaterials of natural origin (e.g., gelatin or HA) delivered by injection to healthy renal
   parenchyma elicited tissue responses were less pathologic at 4 weeks post-injection than those of
   synthetic origin as measured by semi-quantitative histopathologic evaluation.
35
                                                           -95
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   Example 16 - Hypoxic exposure of cultured human renal cells induces mediators of cell
   migration and attachment and facilitates the repair of tubular cell monolayers in vitro
                The role of oxygen tension in the isolation and function of a selected population of renal
   epithelial cells (B2) with demonstrated therapeutic function in models of chronic kidney disease
 5 (CKD) was investigated. This study examined whether low oxygen exposure during processing alters
   composition and function of selected human selected renal cells (SRCs) or bioactive renal cells
   (BRCs). Upon exposure to 2% Oxygen, the following was observed: an alteration of the distribution
   of cells across a density gradient (see Presnell et al. WO 10/056328 incorporated herein by reference
   in its entirety), improvement in overall post-gradient yield, modulation of oxygen-regulated gene
10 expression (previously reported in Kelley et al. supra (2010)), increased expression of erythropoietin,
   VEGF, HIF 1-alpha, and KDR(VEGFR2). In-process exposure to low oxygen enhances the ability of
   selected bioactive renal cells to repair/regenerate damaged renal tubules.
                Figure 27 depicts the procedure for exposing cells to low oxygen during processing. Figure
   28 shows that upon exposure to 2% Oxygen, the following was observed: alters distribution of cells
15 across a density gradient, improves overall post-gradient yield. Hypoxic exposure (<3%) increased
   recovery of cultured human CKD-derived renal cells from iodixanol-based density gradients relative
   to atmospheric oxygen tension (21%) (96% vs. 74%) and increased the relative distribution of
   selected cells (B2) into high-density (>9% iodixanol) fractions (21.6% vs. 11.2%).
         Competitive in vitro assays demonstrated that B2 cells pre-exposed for 24 hours to hypoxic
20 conditions were more proficient in repairing damaged renal proximal tubular monolayer cultures than
   B2 cells cultured at 21% oxygen tension, with 58.6% 3% of the repair occurring within two hours
   of injury.
                Figures 29A depicts an assay developed to observe repair of tubular monolayers in vitro. 1.
   Cells are labeled with fluorescent dyes (2% oxygen, 21% oxygen, and HK2 tubular cells). 2. The
25 tubular cell monolayer was established and wounded. 3. Oxygen-exposed labeled cells are added (2%
   and 21% exposed cells). They are seeded equally at 20,000/cm2. Culturing is in serum-free media at
   5%02 for 24hrs.                   4. Cells that repair wounding are quantified. Figure 29B - Quantitative Image
   Analysis (BD Pathway 855 Biolmager) - red circles = cells cultured 2% 02,                 blue circles= 21% 02.
   Figure 29C - it was observed that 2% oxygen-induced cells attached more rapidly (2 hrs) and
30 sustained a mild advantage for 24 hrs. Cells induced with 2% oxygen were more proficient at repair
   of tubular epithelial monolayers.
         Figure 30A depicts an assay developed to observe repair of tubular monolayers in vitro. 1. Cells
   were labeled with fluorescent dyes. 2. The tubular cell monolayer was established on the bottom of 8
   [m pore size transwell inserts and wounded. 3. The inserts are flipped and oxygen-exposed labeled
35 cells are added (2% and 21% exposed cells). They are seeded equally at 50,000/cm2. Culturing is in
   serum-free media at 5%02 for 24hrs. 4. Cells that repair wounding are quantified.
                                                                 -96
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

        Figure 3CB sbows 'hat the induction      ofcell with 2% Oxygen enhancd the migration and wound
   rpairmcompared to un-induced (21 % oxygen)            Figure 30C plots the % ofmigrted celis against he
   migration time. The average numberofecells and           average peentage ofeells are provided in Table
 5      Hyprxia atse induced mNA expression ofCXCR4, MMP9, ICAM,                     and dystroglyean; genes
   'hat mediate   cell migmtion and attachment Focal acumulation of MMP9 and an increase in
   Connexin 43 aggrgates on thecells           plasmamemraewasc nfirmed byimmunoeyochemisry
        Figure 3 A shows chat osteopontin issecreted by tubular celIs and is upregulated in response to
   injurY (Osteopontin[mmnunocytchemisty: Hoechst nuclear stain (bluc), Osteopontin (Red), lO).
10 Osteopontin is a secretled phospirylated glycprotein (Kelly e al J Am Soe Soc Nephrol, 1999)
   Ostcopontn is expressed inkidney tubules and             involved in adhesion and migratio. Osteopontins
   upregulared by injury in established tubular uell monelayers as shn, by immunoflluoresecnee
   (Figure 3 IA)and ELLSA (Figre 31B)
15      Table 16.1
            N3                      3Mr                           24hr
                       As        whss   A sgs         A~5Amosicif       As g%
           2%0,            2633                           117.67
           21%0,           1667                            76,3
        Figure32SAshows that themnigratory response ufeells is mediated inpart by osteopontin (Green=
   migrated cells 5x). Figure 32B shows tiat neutralizing antibodies (NAb) to ostenpontin reduce
   renal cell migration response by 50%.
20      Figure 33 shows that low-oxygen induction ufcels          mondtlaes expression of tissue remodeling
   genes. Cavenlin       is a scaffolding protein involved in modulation    ofintegin signalmg. MMP9 is a
   metalloproteinasc     tha facilitates migrtion mbough extmeeltular matrix degradation. [CAM I is          an
   imercellularadhesion mulecule associated with epihbelial cell Colmity. CXCR4 isa chemokinc
   surfacereeptor that mediates cell migration
25      Figure 34 depitsa putative mechanism          or low oxygen augmentation ofbioativty ofcells
   lead   into   nal    generation.
            Taken together.     these resulls suggest that hpoxic exposure faeilitates the isolation ofa
   specific renal ell subppulation with demonstrated biac ti viy           r repair of tubular injury in vitro,
                                                          -97
   .11w wsmi;Pou..u

   and thus may potentially enhance the ability of these cells to migrate and engraft into diseased tissue
   after in vivo delivery. The SRCs demonstrated the ability to stabilize renal function and enhance
   survival in a rodent model of progressive CKD. The low oxygen levels (2% 02) provided the
   following: enhanced post-culture recovery of selected regenerative cells; enhanced cellular
 5 attachment and monolayer repair in response to tubular injury; and stimulated cellular migration in
   response to tubular injury. In addition, cellular migration and attachment were mediated in part by
   osteopontin in vitro, low-oxygen upregulated integrins, secreted proteins, and cell adhesion molecules
   which mediate tissue remodeling, migration, and cell-cell communication.
10 Example 17 - Urine-derived microvesicles
                An analysis of the miRNAs and proteins contained within the luminal contents of kidney
   derived microvesicles shed into the urine was performed to determine whether they might be used as
   biomarkers for assessing regenerative outcome. As excess microvesicles are shed into the
   extracellular space, some fuse with neighboring cells while others are excreted into the urine (Zhou et
15 al. 2008. Kidney Int. 74(5):613-621). These urinary microvesicles now become excellent biomarkers
   for assay development in order to better understand treatment outcomes.
                The ZSF1 rodent model of metabolic disease with chronic progressive renal failure was used.
   B2+B4 cells were injected into the renal parenchyma of ZSF1 animals. Healthy animals and PBS
   vehicle were used as controls. Urine-derived vesicles were analyzed at different time points as
20 summarized below.
    1: ZSF1 animal - PBS vehicle injected; urine collected 197 days after injection
   2: ZSF1 animal - PBS vehicle injection; urine collected 253 days after injection
   3: ZSF1 animal - B2 + B4 fraction injected; urine collected 197 days after injection
   4: ZSF1 animal - B2 + B4 fraction injected; urine collected 253 days after injection
25 5. ZSF1 animal - no injection; urine collected on day 197 of the study
   6. ZSF1 animal - no injection; urine collected on day 253 of the study
   7. Healthy animal - no injection; urine collected on day 197 of the study
   8. Healthy animal - no injection; urine collected on day 253 of the study
   Urine was collected from the test animals on day 197 and about 253 days after treatment.
30 Microvesicles were recovered from the urine by standard methods known in the art (for example, see
   Zhou et al. Kidney Int. 2008 September; 74(5): 613-621). As shown by standard Western blotting in
   Figure 35, microvesicles recovered from the urine of treated animals (lanes 3-4) showed an increase
   in proteins associated with progenitor cells (CD 133 & WNT7A) when compared to either vehicle
   treated (lanes 1-2) or untreated controls (lanes 5-8). In fact, microvesicles were only recovered from
35 the urine of diseased animals (lanes 1-6), not healthy controls (lanes 7-8), as indicated by expression
   of the microvesicle specific protein CD63 (Figure 35). The CD133-containing microvesicles appear
                                                       -98
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   to be prominosomes shed from kidney cells. Both CD 133 and WNT7A have been associated with
   regeneration and stem cell division (Romagnani P and Kalluri R. 2009. Fibrogenesis Tissue Repair.
   2(1):3; Lie et al. 2005. Nature. 437(7063):1370-5; Willert et al. 2003. Nature. 423(6938):448-52; Li et
   al. 2009. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 297(6):F1526-33). Taken together, this supports targeting
 5 proteins expressed in microvesicles as biomarkers for assay development designed to monitor
   regeneration.
                miRNA microarraysand RT-PCR. Microarray and RT-PCR analysis of miRNA from urine
   derived vesicles was performed by standard methods known in the art (for example, see Wang et al.
   supra 2010). In addition to proteins, miRNAs were found within the contents of the isolated
10 microvesicles. Table 17.1 provides examples of miRNAs that were found to be increased with
   treatment.
   Table 17.1
   miRNA                         RQ value miRNA          RQ value          miRNA           RQ value
   miR-15b                       6.5206   miR-21         6.4755            miR-30a         6.0002
   miR-30a*                      2.4666   miR-30b-5p     9.8833            miR-30c         6.1688
   miR-30d                       5.9176   miR-30d*       4.1482            miR-30e         8.0836
   miR-30e*                      2.1622   miR-141        5.1515            miR-146a        2.3054
   miR-151                       3.4462   miR-200a       9.3340            miR-200c        8.0278
   miR-429                       9.7136
15              The change in miRNA was analyzed in ZSF 1 animals treated with B2+B4 over time (day 197
   and day 253). A fold change was observed for the following miRNAs:
                                                     -99
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-370                 miR-207         miR-345-5p
                miR-362                 miR-501         miR-29c
                miR-1224                miR-125b-3p  75 miR-215
                miR-22               40 miR-154         miR-138*
 5              miR-598-5p              miR-375         miR-182
                miR-540                 miR-298         miR-147
                miR-300-3p              miR-671         miR-664
                miR-206                 miR-21       80 miR-339-5p
                miR-222              45 let-7e          miR-743b
10              miR-433                 let-7f          miR-96
                let-7b                  miR-125a-5p     miR-203
                let-7c                  miR-194         miR-130a
                miR-497                 miR-152      85 miR-346
                let-7b*              50 miR-128         miR-674-3p
15              miR-24-2*               miR-423         miR-140*
                miR-770                 miR-92b         miR-192
                miR-124                 miR-139-3p      miR-409-3p
                miR-485                 miR-667      90 miR-106b*
                miR-760-5p           55 miR-98          let-7d
20              miR-296                 miR-181d        miR-28*
                miR-764                 miR-500         miR-219-2-3p
                miR-221                 miR-103         miR-148b-3p
                miR-883                 miR-99b*     95 miR-23b
                miR-15b              60 miR-935         miR-195
25              miR-143                 miR-674-5p      miR-30d
                let-7a                  miR-743a        miR-301b
                miR-339-3p              miR-352         miR-320
                miR-484                 miR-326     100 miR-652
                miR-742              65 miR-181c        miR-322
30              miR-101b                miR-504         miR-429
                miR-425                 miR-322*        miR-291a-5p
                miR-31                  miR-7a          miR-26a
                miR-29b                 miR-532-3p  105 miR-141
                let-7e*              70 miR-29a         miR-185
35              miR-345-3p              miR-130b        miR-27b
                miR-193                 miR-328         miR-200c
                                            -100
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-431                 let-7i           miR-466c
                miR-16                  miR-30a          miR-342-3p
                miR-23a                 miR-199a-5p   75 miR-216a
                miR-330*             40 miR-25           miR-101a*
 5              miR-344-5p              miR-99a*         miR-24
                miR-347                 miR-28           miR-151
                miR-125b*               miR-30d*         miR-205
                miR-30b-5p              miR-151*      80 miR-17-5p
                miR-218              45 miR-344-3p       miR-134
10              miR-99a                 miR-126*         miR-296*
                miR-488                 miR-145          miR-26b*
                miR-493                 miR-20b-5p       miR-30e*
                miR-9*                  miR-294       85 miR-382
                miR-92a              50 miR-489          miR-410
15              miR-125b-5p             miR-483          miR-327
                miR-183                 miR-132          miR-133b
                miR-708                 miR-505          miR-142-3p
                miR-191                 miR-7a*       90 miR-324-5p
                miR-181b             55 let-7i*          miR-125a-3p
20              miR-186                 miR-21*          let-7d*
                miR-872                 miR-331          miR-19b
                miR-188                 miR-434          miR-223
                miR-22*                 miR-106b      95 miR-374
                miR-27a              60 miR-30e          miR-127
25              miR-7b                  miR-350          miR-26b
                miR-598-3p              miR-34a          miR-25*
                miR-490                 miR-219-1-3p     miR-330
                miR-675                 miR-543      100 miR-146a
                miR-Oa-5p            65 miR-210          miR-295
30              miR-184                 miR-30a*         miR-196a
                miR-100                 miR-365          miR-34b
                miR-874                 miR-378          miR-129
                miR-200a                miR-196b     105 miR-196c
                miR-30c              70 miR-27a*         miR-17-3p
35              miR-99b                 miR-361          miR-133a
                miR-212                 miR-10b          miR-19a
                                            -101
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-211
                miR-20a
                miR-34c
                miR-871
 5              miR-93
                miR-9
                miR-532-5p
                miR-181a
                miR-760-3p
10              miR-140
                miR-29a*
                miR-138
                miR-193*
                miR-Oa-3p
15              miR-877
                miR-29c*
                miR-503
                miR-148b-5p
                miR-107
20              miR-34c*
                miR-672
                miR-873
                miR-351
                miR-292-5p
25              miR-343
                miR-449a
                miR-323
                miR-29b-2*
                miR-539
30              miR-465
                miR-214
                miR-541
                miR-761
                                     -102
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

               miRNA levels were analyzed in ZSF1 animals treated with B2+B4 (day 253) and compared
  to the miRNA levels in ZSF1 animals treated with PBS vehicle (day 253). A fold change was
  observed for the following miRNAs:
5
                                                   -103
  9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   miR-24                               miR-26a             miR-30d*
   miR-195                              miR-30d             miR-148b-5p
   miR-871                              miR-743b         75 miR-138*
   miR-30b-5p                        40 miR-9               miR-465
 5 miR-19b                              let-7e              miR-129
   miR-99a                              miR-23a             miR-344-3p
   miR-429                              miR-322*            miR-330
   let-7f                               miR-96           80 miR-374
   miR-200a                          45 miR-1I06b           miR-lIOa-3p
10 miR-324-5p                           miR-23b             miR-352
   miR-lIOa-5p                          miR-27b             miR-181a
   miR-148b-3p                          miR-29a             1et-7i*
   miR-100                              let-7a           85 miR-134
   miR- 16                           50 miR-425             miR-1I96a
15 1et-7d*                              miR-20a             miR-203
   miR-30e                              miR-22*             let-7c
   miR-200c                             miR-98              miR-i151
   miR-292-5p                           miR-25           90 miR-20b-5p
   miR-152                           55 miR-194             miR-26b*
20 let-7i                               let-7d              miR-140
   miR-351                              miR- 141            miR- 12 8
   miR-434                              miR-7a*             miR-222
   miR-26b                              miR-107          95 miR-29a*
   miR-489                           60 miR-93              miR-872
25 miR-186                              miR-742             miR-328
   miR- 191                             miR-5OS             miR-760-3p
   miR-l0b                              miR-19a             miR-295
   miR-365                              miR-1I7-5p      100 miR-151*
   miR-431                           65 miR-743a            miR-138
30 miR-29c                              miR- 182            miR-21 1
   miR-15b                              miR-378             miR-339-5p
   miR-21                               miR-761             miR-382
   miR- 125b-5p                         miR-103         105 miR-497
   miR-30c                           70 miR-221             miR- 184
35 miR-30a                              miR-212             miR-375
   miR-503                              miR-27a             let-7b
                                                   -104
   9871238 1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   miR-133a                             miR-181b            miR-34c*
   miR-345-5p                           miR-296*            miR-92b
   miR-342-3p                           miR-339-3p       75 miR-29b-2*
   miR-34a                           40 miR-28*             miR-298
 5 miR-7a                               miR-24-2*           miR-139-3p
   miR-291Ia-5p                         miR-345-3p          miR-342-5p
   miR-34c                              miR-33O*            miR-877
   miR-300-3p                           miR-504          80 miR-99a*
   miR-219-1-3p                      45 miR-449a            miR-129*
10 miR-3Oa*                             miR-210             miR-181c
   miR-125a-5p                          miR-188             miR-21 *
   miR-323                              miR-410             miR-25*
   miR-327                              miR-101a*        85 miR-143
   miR-883                           50 miR-147             miR-770
15 miR-541                              miR-192             miR-652
   miR-708                              miR-296             miR-183
   miR-1I96c                            miR-1I96b           miR-22
   miR-216a                             miR-433          90 miR-485
   miR- 146a                         55 miR-1I7-3p          miR-935
20 miR-27a*                             miR-350             miR-532-5p
   miR-223                              miR- 142-3p         miR-764
   miR-106b*                            miR-423             miR-193
   miR-466c                             miR-l0ib         95 miR-672
   miR-490                           60 miR-219-2-3p        miR-325-5p
25 miR-326                              1et-7e*             miR-760-5p
   miR-664                              miR-484             miR-346
   miR-29b                              miR-1224            miR-301a
   miR-30e*                             miR-320         100 miR-488
   miR-532-3p                        65 miR-675             miR-539
30 miR-1I99a-5p                         miR-lOS             miR-132
   miR-154                              miR-874             miR-126*
   miR-127                              miR-500             miR-99b
   miR-667                              miR-50l         105 miR-125a-3p
   miR-92a                           70 miR-347             miR-181d
35 miR-140*                             miR-338             miR-543
   miR-322                              miR-671             1et-7b*
                                                   -105
   9871238 1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   miR-99b*
   miR-463
   miR-146b
   miR-343
 5 miR-205
   miR-23a*
   miR-674-5p
   miR-214
   miR-540
10 miR-133b
   miR-29c*
   miR-758
   miR-362
   miR-34b
15 miR-409-3p
   miR-185
   miR-344-5p
   miR-294
   miR-31
20 miR-125b-3p
   miR-204*
   miR-361
   miR-711
   miR-215
25 miR-301b
   miR-206
   miR-370
   miR-130a
   miR-193*
30 miR-873
   miR-218
   miR-124
   miR- 13 Ob
                                     -106
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

               miRNA levels were analyzed in ZSF1 animals treated with B2+B4 (day 197) and compared
  to the miRNA levels in ZSF1 animals treated with PBS vehicle (day 197). A fold change was
  observed for the following miRNAs:
5
                                                   -107
  9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-143                 miR-96          miR-291a-5p
                miR-370                 miR-151         miR-181d
                miR-351                 miR-125a-3p  75 miR-320
                let-7a               40 miR-195         miR-345-3p
 5              miR-152                 miR-210         miR-764
                miR- 141                miR-742         miR-191
                let-7c                  miR-30d         miR-10b
                miR-222                 miR-194      80 miR-298
                miR-362              45 miR-433         miR-92b
10              miR-200a                miR-23b         miR-22
                miR-188                 miR-124         miR-330*
                miR-429                 miR-101b        miR-484
                miR-505                 miR-497      85 miR-339-3p
                miR-21               50 miR-425         miR-106b
15              let-7e                  miR-347         miR-25
                miR-182                 miR-19a         miR-326
                let-7b                  miR-431         miR-129
                let-7i                  miR-17-5p    90 miR-31
                miR-200c             55 miR-98          miR-34a
20              miR-99a                 miR-434         miR-652
                miR-221                 miR-339-5p      miR-15b
                miR-30b-5p              miR-296         miR-130a
                let-7d                  miR-667      95 miR-378
                miR-103              60 miR-181b        miR-30c
25              miR-148b-3p             miR-324-5p      let-7d*
                miR-26a                 miR-30e         miR-874
                miR-186                 miR-Oa-5p       miR-485
                miR-24-2*               miR-125a-5p 100 miR-93
                miR-26b              65 miR-29b         miR-671
30              miR-375                 miR-28*         miR-99b*
                let-7f                  miR-106b*       miR-139-3p
                miR-206                 miR-30a         miR-27b
                miR-29a                 miR-423     105 miR-21*
                miR-100              70 miR-19b         miR-328
35              miR-29c                 miR-500         miR-185
                miR-16                  miR-92a         miR-743b
                                          -108
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                miR-127                 miR-130b        miR-17-3p
                miR-345-5p              miR-449a        miR-7b
                miR-140*                miR-7a*      75 miR-34b
                miR-20a              40 miR-219-2-3p    miR-193*
 5              miR-374                 miR-23a         miR-216a
                miR-664                 miR-322         miR-99a*
                miR-877                 miR-181a        miR-483
                miR-24                  miR-219-1-3p 80 miR-223
                miR-205              45 miR-30d*        miR-361
10              miR-196b                miR-301b        miR-503
                miR-126*                let-7e*         miR-873
                miR-20b-5p              miR-196a
                miR-128                 miR-9
                miR-22*              50 miR-27a*
15              miR-196c                miR-488
                miR-192                 miR-183
                miR-151*                miR-26b*
                miR-134                 miR-138
                miR-214              55 miR-382
20              miR-674-5p              miR-760-3p
                miR-125b-5p             let-7i*
                miR-365                 miR-184
                miR-532-3p              miR-25*
                miR-29c*             60 miR-34c
25              miR-7a                  miR-30a*
                miR-147                 miR-466c
                miR-27a                 miR-28
                miR-181c                miR-142-3p
                miR-99b              65 miR-107
30              miR-125b-3p             miR-148b-5p
                miR-193                 miR-331
                miR-342-3p              miR-218
                miR-215                 miR-30e*
                miR-132              70 miR-330
35              miR-532-5p              miR-344-5p
                miR-203                 miR-493
                                            -109
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                The miRNAs listed in Table 17.1 provide examples of miRNAs that have been implicated in
   processes relative to tissue regeneration. miR- 15b has been implicated in regulating apoptosis
   through BCL-2 and caspase regulation (Guo et al. 2009. J Hepatol. 50(4):766-78) as well as cell cycle
 5 progression through the regulation of cyclins (Xia et al. 2009. Biochem Biophys Res Commun.
   380(2):205-10). miR-21 was shown to inhibit apoptosis by modulating survival pathways
   MAPK/ERK. The miR-30 family of miRNAs is critical for podocyte structure and function
   suggesting that an increase maybe necessary for glomerulargenisis. miR-141, 200a, 200c and 429 are
   all involved in modulating epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in response to TGF-s
10 signaling possibly reducing fibrosis (Saal et al. 2009. Curr. Opin. Nephrol. Hypertens. 18:317-323).
   miR- 146a and 151 have been implicated in NFKB modulation thus potentially reducing the
   inflammatory response in vivo ( Taganov et al. 2006. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 103(33):12481-6;
   Griffiths-Jones et al. 2006. NAR. 34 Database Issue: D140-D144). Collectively, these miRNAs
   regulate processes related to a successful regenerative outcome; thus making them candidate
15 biomarkers for assay development. Overall, this data supports the concept that urinary microvesicles
   and/or their luminal contents are viable targets for regenerative assays as they contain proteins and
   miRNAs capable of modulating multiple pathways including: TGF          P-1, NFKB, apoptosis, cell
   division and pluripotency in addition to providing practitioners with a non-invasive means of
   monitoring treatment.
                                                      -110
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1. A method of providing a regenerative effect to a native kidney comprising in vivo contacting of the
 5 native kidney with products secreted by an enriched renal cell population.
   2. The method of claim 1 wherein the products comprise paracrine factors.
   3. The method of claim 1 wherein the products comprise endocrine factors.
   4. The method of claim 1 wherein the products comprise juxtacrine factors.
   5. The method of claim 1 wherein the products comprise vesicles.
10 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the vesicles comprise microvesicles.
   7. The method of claim 5 wherein the vesicles comprise exosomes.
   8. The method of any one of claims 5-7, wherein the vesicles comprise a secreted product selected
   from the group consisting of paracrine factors, endocrine factors, juxtacrine factors, and RNA.
   9. The method of claim 1 wherein the products are secreted from a renal cell construct comprising an
15 enriched renal cell population directly seeded on or in a scaffold.
    10. The method of claim 9 wherein the scaffold comprises a biocompatible material.
    11. The method of claim 10 wherein the biocompatible material is a hydrogel.
    12. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein secretion of the products is bioresponsive to oxygen levels.
    13. The method of claim 12 wherein secretion is induced by a less than atmospheric oxygen level.
20  14. The method of claim 13 wherein the lower oxygen level is less than about 5% oxygen.
    15. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the regenerative effect is a reduction in epithelial
   mesenchymal transition (EMT).
    16. The method of claim 15 wherein the reduction in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is via
   attenuation of TGF-P signalling.
25  17. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the regenerative effect is a reduction in renal fibrosis and/or a
   reduction in renal inflammation.
    18. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the regenerative effect is characterized by differential
   expression of a stem cell marker in the native kidney.
    19. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the population comprises a first cell population, B2,
30 comprising an enriched population of tubular cells.
   20. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the population comprises an admixture of human renal cells
   comprising a first cell population, B2, and a second cell population, wherein B2 comprises an
   enriched population of tubular cells and wherein the second cell population comprises one or more of
   erythropoietin (EPO)-producing cells, glomerular cells and vascular cells.
                                                    -111
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

   21. The method of claim 19 or 20 wherein the B2 cell population has a density between about 1.045
   g/mL and about 1.052 g/mL.
   22. The method of claim 20 wherein the second cell population is a B4 cell population having a
   density between about 1.063 g/mL and about 1.091 g/mL.
 5 23. The method of claim 20 wherein the second cell population is a B3 cell population having a
   density between about 1.052 g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml.
   24. The method of any one of claims 21-23 wherein the admixture further comprises a third cell
   population, wherein the third cell population comprises one or more of erythropoietin (EPO)
   producing cells, glomerular cells and vascular cells.
10 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the third cell population is a B4 cell population having a density
   between about 1.063 g/mL and about 1.091 g/mL.
   26. The method of claim 24 wherein the third cell population is a B3 cell population having a density
   between about 1.052 g/ml and about 1.063 g/ml.
   27. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the enriched renal cell population is non-autologous to the
15 native kidney.
   28. The method of claim 1 or 9 wherein the enriched renal cell population is autologous to the native
   kidney.
   29. A method of assessing whether a kidney disease (KD) patient is responsive to treatment with a
   therapeutic, the method comprising detecting the amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in a test
20 sample obtained from a KD patient treated with the therapeutic, as compared to or relative to the
   amount of vesicles or their luminal contents in a control sample, wherein a higher or lower amount of
   vesicles or their luminal contents in the test sample as compared to the amount of vesicles or their
   luminal contents in the control sample is indicative of the patient' s responsiveness to treatment with
   the therapeutic.
25 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the vesicles are kidney-derived vesicles.
   31. The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the vesicles comprise comprise a biomarker.
   32. The method of claim 31, wherein the biomarker is miRNA.
   33. The method of claim 29, wherein the therapeutic comprises an enriched population of renal cells.
   34. The method of claim 29, wherein the test sample comprises urine.
                                                     -112
   9871238_1 (GHMatters) P91833.AU.2

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          Figure 1
                     A
1 of 49
                     B

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 2         Figure 3
                         2 of 49

<removed-date>
              Non-CKD (HK17)
<removed-apn>
              CKD (HK19)
              Figure 4
                               3 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                   > 1 spot = green
                                   < 1 spot = red
              Figure 5
                         4 of 49

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          Figure 6
5 of 49

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          Figure 7
6 of 49

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          Figure 8
7 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                       SOX2
                             120.000
                             100.000
                  RQ Value
                              80.000
                              60.000
                              40.000
                              20.000
                               0.000
                                       1           12            24
                                            Time (Weeks)
                                       Control    Nx    NKA Treated
              Figure 9
                                                           8 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 10
              Figure 11
                          9 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 12
10 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 13A
11 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 13B
12 of 49

<removed-date>
                 7.0                                   7.0
                 6.0                                   6.0
                 5.0                                   5.0
                 4.0                                   4.0
<removed-apn>
                 3.0                                   3.0
                 2.0                                   2.0
                 1.0                                   1.0
                 0.0                                   0.0
                           CTRL    TGFb1    TGFb1+CM         CTRL    GFb1
                                                                    TGFb1   TGFb1+CM
                   7.0
                   6.0
                   5.0
                   4.0
                   3.0
                   2.0
                   1.0
                   0.0
                            CTRL     GFb1
                                    TGFb1   TGFb1+CM
              Figure 13C
              Figure 13D
                                                13 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          A
           Figure 14
14 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 15A
15 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 15B
16 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 15C
17 of 49

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 16A-B
18 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 17
19 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 17F
              Figure 17G
                           20 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 18
21 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 18E
22 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 19A
23 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 19B
24 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 19C
25 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 20
26 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 20E
27 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 20F
28 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 20G
29 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 21A
30 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 21B
31 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 22A
32 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 22B
33 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 23A
34 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 23B
35 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 23C
36 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 24A
37 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 24B
38 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 25
39 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 26
40 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 27
              Figure 28
                          41 of 49

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 29A
42 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 29B
              Figure 29C
                           43 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 30A
              Figure 30B          Figure 30C
                           44 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 31A
              Figure 31B
                           45 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 32A
              Figure 32B
                           46 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 33
47 of 49

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           Figure 34
48 of 49

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Lane        Treatment         Approximate Day
              1           Vehicle                 0
              2           Vehicle                 58
              3           Cells                   0
              4           Cells                   58
              5           Disease Control         0
              6           Disease Control         58
              7           Healthy Control         0
              8           Healthy Control         58
              Figure 35
                                                    49 of 49

