                                            Abstract
In one embodiment, a connection device couples a mobile device having a touch-sensitive
display screen to a component of home automation system. The connection device couples
a wired serial communication interface of the mobile device to a wired serial
communication interface of the component. The mobile device executes a configuration
application (app), whose a user interface is displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen.
Using the user interface, a user may configure the component to join a Wi-Fi network, as
well as configure more advanced settings of the component. Similarly, in response to
further input on the user interface, the configuration app on the mobile device may send
additional control commands via the connection device, or the Wi-Fi network, to the
component, to configure additional settings of the component.

                                                   1
                        A CONFIGURATION CONNECTION DEVICE
                                          BACKGROUND
 5 The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
   2014281083, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
           The present disclosure relates generally to home automation systems and more
10 specifically to a connection device for configuring components of a home automation
   system that are initially inaccessible on a Wi-Fi network.
   Background Information
           Home automation systems are becoming increasingly popular in both residential
15 and commercial buildings. In a typical home automation system, one or more controllers
   organize the system. The controllers operates under directions from a user, received on
   user interface devices in communication with the controllers. The controllers may control
   endpoints that implement functions to change the environment, and in some cases collect
   environmental data. Depending on the type of home automation system, the nature of the
20 controllers, user interface devices, and endpoints may vary. Further, the same device may
   sometimes operate as both a controller, a user interface device, and/or an endpoint,
   depending on its capabilities and current role. As used herein, the term "component"
   should be understood to refer generally to controllers, user interface devices, and/or
   endpoints of a home automation system.
25         A home automation system may include components related to any of a variety of
   different types of functions in the areas of lighting, climate control, audio/video, window
   shades and drapes, security and surveillance, communications, entry control, power
   management, and the like. For example, if the home automation system supports lighting
   control, controllers may include a lighting controller, user interface devices may include
30 one or more remote controls and keypads, and endpoints may include load modules.
   Likewise, if the home automation system supports climate control, the controllers may
   include one or more heating ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) controllers (or

                                                  2
   HVAC control functionality integrated into general purpose controllers), the user interface
   devices may include one or more remote controls, and the endpoints may include one or
   more thermostats, sensors, and the like.
            Some components may support wireless networking, and join and communicate
 5 over wireless local area networks (WLANs), or more specifically Wi-Fi networks. As used
   herein the term "Wi-Fi network" refers to a WLAN that is based on one or more of the
   Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' (IEEE) 802.11 standards. A Wi-Fi
   network may be used to pass control commands among the components to support
   ongoing home automation functions. While wireless networking circuitry may be readily
10 integrated into components, configuring such components to join a Wi-Fi network and
   properly interact with one another may present challenges. Before a component has joined
   a Wi-Fi network, it may be inaccessible to other components via Wi-Fi communication.
            In order to join a Wi-Fi network, a component typically must be configured with
   Wi-Fi settings, for example, a network name (e.g., service set identifier (SSID)), a security
is type (e.g., Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) a password,
   addresses (e.g., an Internet Protocol (IP) address, a subnet mask, an IP address of a
   gateway/router), etc. Also, the component may need to have its role defined, have its
   firmware updated, and/or be configured with bindings and controller setting, before it can
   properly interact with other components. However, some components of home automation
20 systems may lack robust user interfaces themselves that allow a user to easily configure
   these settings. A component, for example, a lighting controller, a keypad, etc., may lack
   any sort of display screen that could show such a user interface. Users may be required to
   undertake cumbersome and inefficient means to configure components.
            Accordingly, there is a need for improved techniques for configuring components
25 of home automation systems, including Wi-Fi enabled components that may initially be
   inaccessible on a Wi-Fi network.
            Any reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior
   art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or that the
   information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date
30 of any of the claims.

                                                  2a
           Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise"
   and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to
   exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
 5                                              SUMMARY
           According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for
   configuring a component of a home automation system that initially is inaccessible on a
   Wi-Fi network, the method comprising: executing a configuration application (app) on a
   mobile device having a touch-sensitive display screen, a user interface of the configuration
10 app being displayed to a user on the touch-sensitive display screen; coupling the mobile
   device to the component of the home automation system via a connection device, the
   connection device connecting a wired serial communication interface of the mobile device
   to a wired serial communication interface of the component and capable of operating as a
   transparent middle node in response to a pass-through command; in response to input
is specifying Wi-Fi settings that is entered in the user interface being displayed on the touch
   sensitive display screen, sending control signals from the mobile device to the component
   via the connection device to configure Wi-Fi settings of the component to cause the
   component join the Wi-Fi network, the control signals to include the pass-through
   command to cause the connection device to forward the control signals to the component;
20 in response to further input specifying a component role or bindings that is entered in the
   user interface being displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen, sending additional
   control signals from the mobile device to the component via the connection device to at
   least one of assign the component a role within the home automation system or bind the
   component to a controller of the home automation system, the additional control signals to
25 include the pass-through command to cause the connection device to forward the control
   signals to the component.
           According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system
   for configuring a component of a home automation system that initially is inaccessible on
   a Wi-Fi network, the system comprising: a mobile device having a processor, a memory, a
30 wired serial communication interface, and a touch-sensitive display screen, wherein the
   memory is configured to store a configuration application (app), the touch-sensitive

                                                 2b
   display screen is configured to show a user interface of the configuration app, and the
   processor is configured to execute the configuration app, and the configuration app, when
   executed, is configured to send control commands to over the wired serial communication
   interface in response to input specifying Wi-Fi settings that is entered in the user interface,
 5 the control commands to configure Wi-Fi settings of the component of the home
   automation system to cause the component to join the Wi-Fi network, the control
   commands to include a pass-through command; and a connection device coupled to the
   wired serial communication interface of the mobile device and a wired serial
   communication interface of the component, the connection device configured to operate as
10 a transparent middle node between the mobile device and the component in response to
   the pass-through command and propagate the control commands there between, wherein
   the configuration app, when executed, is further operable to send additional control
   signals to the component via the Wi-Fi network to at least one of assign the component a
   role within the home automation system or bind the component to a controller of the home
15 automation system, the additional control signals to include the pass-through command.
           Also described herein is a mobile device for configuring a component of a home
   automation system that initially is inaccessible on a Wi-Fi network, comprising: a touch
   sensitive display screen; a wired communication interface, a Wi-Fi interface; a memory
   configured to store a configuration application (app), a processor configured to execute the
20 configuration app, the configuration app, when executed, operable to send control signals
   from the mobile device over the wired communication interface to configure Wi-Fi
   settings of the component of the home automation system to cause the component to join
   the Wi-Fi network, in response to input entered on the touch sensitive display screen, and
   send additional control signals from the mobile device to the now Wi-Fi accessible
25 component via the Wi-Fi network to at least one of assign the component a role within the
   home automation system or bind the component to a controller of the home automation
   system, in response to further input entered on the touch sensitive display screen.
           In one embodiment, a connection device is provided that couples a mobile device
   having a touch- sensitive display screen to a component (e.g., a controller, a user interface,
30 or an endpoint) of a home automation system. The connection device

                                                 3
   couples a wired serial communication interface of the mobile device (e.g., a 30-pin
   dock interface, Lightning interface, Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface, etc.) to a
   wired serial communication interface (e.g., an RS232 interface or other type of
   interface) of the component of the home automation system. An authentication chip,
 s processor, or other circuitry may be included internal to the connection device, and
   facilitate communication between the wired serial communication interfaces. The
   mobile device executes a configuration application (app), whose user interface is
   displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen. Using the user interface, a user may
   configure the component to join a Wi-Fi network, as well as configure more advanced
1o settings of the component. For example, in response to input on the user interface, the
   configuration app on the mobile device may send control commands via the
   connection device to the component, to set a network name, a security type, a
   password, addresses, etc., to cause the component to join aWi-Fi network. Similarly,
   in response to further input on the user interface, the configuration app on the mobile
IS device may send additional control commands via the connection device, or the Wi-Fi
   network, to the component to configure additional settings (e.g., a role, firmware,
   bindings and controller settings, etc.) of the component. In this manner, a user may
   use the mobile device to configure a component of a home automaton system that
   may lack any sort of display screen itself capable of providing a robust user interface.
20          It should be understood that a variety of additional features and alternative
   embodiments may be implemented. This Summary is intended simply as an
   introduction to the reader, and does not indicate or imply that the examples mentioned
   herein cover all aspects of the invention, or are necessary or essential aspects of the
   invention.
25
                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The description below refers to the accompanying drawings, of which:
            Fig. 1 is a block diagram of an architecture of a home automation system that
   focuses on lighting control;
30          Fig. 2 is a block diagram of an example mobile device;

                                                 4
            Fig. 3 is a block diagram of an example mobile device coupled via an example
   connection device to an example component;
            Fig. 4 is a series of views of an example mobile device, showing an example
   user interface on the touch sensitive display screen while the connection device and
 5 component are being coupled to the mobile device;
            Fig. 5 is a series of views of an example mobile device showing an example
   user interface while a user configures a component to join a Wi-Fi network;
            Fig. 6 is a series of views of an example mobile device, showing an example
   user interface while a user configures a role of a component in the home automation
10 system;
            Fig. 7 is a series of views of an example mobile device, showing an example
   user interface while a user updates firmware of a component;
            Fig. 8 is a series of views of an example mobile device, showing an example
   user interface while a user configures bindings and controller settings; and
15          Fig. 9 is a flow chart of an example sequence of steps to configure a
   component of a home automation system that is initially is inaccessible on a Wi-Fi
   network.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
2N          Fig. 1 is a block diagram of an architecture of an example home automation
   system 100 that focuses on lighting control. The focus on lighting control is merely
   illustrative, and it should be understood that a home automation system may support a
   variety of different types of functions relating to lighting, climate control,
   audio/video, window shades and drapes, security and surveillance, communications,
25 entry control, power management, and the like, and that the descriptions below are not
   limited to lighting control. A home automation system may be devoted to one of
   these functions, or a combination of multiple ones of these functions. A home
   automation system may be deployed in a residential home and the functions adapted
   to a residential environment. Alternatively, a home automation system may be

                                                5
   deployed in a commercial building (such as an office building, store, factory, etc.) and
   these functions adapted to commercial requirements.
           The example home automation system 100 is composed of a number of home
   automation components (e.g., controllers, a user interfaces, and endpoints) related to
 5 lighting control. The controllers include a lighting controller 110 and a host controller
   120. The user interfaces include keypads 170, remote controls 175, and potentially
   mobile devices 200. The endpoint units include load modules, lamp modules (not
   shown), and the like.
           The lighting controller 110 provides control and communication functionality,
10 and supports, via a module bus 130, the load modules 140. The load modules include
   dimmer modules and relay modules that dim and/or switch individual lighting
   devices, when directed to do so by the lighting controller 110. Further, the lighting
   controller 110 supports, via a module bus 130, keypad link units 150 that are coupled,
   via a respective station bus 160, to keypads 170. The keypads 170 receive user input
15 indicating lighting devices to dim and/or switch, which is provided back to the
   lighting controller 110.
           The lighting controller 110 is coupled, via a wired local area network (LAN)
   180 to the host controller 120. The host controller 120 is configured to control and
   monitor operations of the lighting controller 110, as well as to provide user interface
20 interpretation and high-level control functions. One or more wireless access points
   190 are coupled to the LAN 180, and support a WLAN, or more specifically, a Wi-Fi
   network. The Wi-Fi network is utilized by remote controls 175, and mobile devices
   200. In addition to the remote controls 175 and mobile devices 200, one or more other
   components of the home automation system 100 may utilize the Wi-Fi network. For
25 example, the lighting controller 110, keypads 170 and other components may be Wi
   Fi enabled, and use the Wi-Fi network to supplement, or (alternatively) in place of,
   wired connections.
           In addition to receiving user input to control ongoing operation of a home
   automation system 100, mobile devices 200 may be used to configure components of
30 the home automation system 100. Each individual mobile device 200 may be used in
   one or both of these roles. As used herein, the term "mobile device" refers to an
   electronic device that is adapted to be transported on one's person and includes a

                                                6
   wireless communication interface and a touch sensitive display screen. Devices such
   as tablet computers (e.g., the iPad@ tablet available from Apple, Inc.), smartphones
   (e.g., the iPhone@ smartphones available from Apple, Inc., and Android®
   smartphones available from various suppliers), and certain portable media players
 5 (e.g., such as the iPod@ touch available from Apple, Inc.), are considered mobile
   devices. A desktop computer would not be considered a mobile device. When used
   in a control role, a mobile device 200 may execute a control application (app) and
   communicate with the host controller 120. When used in a configuration role, a
   mobile device 200 may execute a configuration app and communicate directly with
1o individual non-controller components.
            Fig. 2 is a block diagram of an example mobile device 200. The mobile
   device 200 includes a processor 210, a memory 220, a wireless network interface 230,
   a touch-sensitive screen 240, a wired serial communication interface 250, as well as
   other hardware. The processor 210 includes logic configured to execute software and
15 manipulate data from data structures. The memory 220 includes a plurality of storage
   locations for storing the software and the data structures. The wireless network
   interface 230 facilitates communication over a WLAN, or more specifically a Wi-Fi
   network. The touch-sensitive display screen 240 may receive user input in the form
   of gestures (e.g., touches, swipes, multi-touch gestures, etc.) from a user. The serial
20 communication interface 250 may be a 30-pin dock interface, a Lightning interface, a
   USB interface, or another type of interface.
            An operating system 260, portions of which are resident in memory 220,
   functionally organizes the mobile device 200. The operating system 260 may be an
   [OS® operating system available from Apple, Inc., an Android® operating system
25 available from Google, Inc, or another type of operating system. A configuration app
   270 is executed in conjunction with the operating system 260, to permit the mobile
   device 200 to operate in a configuration role, to configure a component (e.g., a
   controller, a user interface, or an endpoint) of the home automation system 100. The
   configuration app 270 may display a user interface on the touch sensitive screen 270,
30 and receive user input thereon. In addition, a control app (not shown) may also be
   stored in the memory 220 to permit the mobile device 200 to operate in a control role
   and control ongoing operation of the home automation system 100. The control app

                                                 7
   (not shown) may also display its user interface on the touch sensitive screen 270, and
   receive user input thereon.
            As discussed above, sometimes a Wi-Fi enabled component of a home
   automation system 100 may not yet be configured with Wi-Fi settings needed to join
 5 the network. Further, the component may lack a display screen capable of providing a
   robust user interface for configuring these Wi-Fi settings, and other settings of the
   component. By coupling the serial communication interface 250 of the mobile device
   200 to a serial communication interface of the component, via a special connection
   device, and using the configuration app 270 on the mobile device 200, a user may
to configure the Wi-Fi and other settings.
            Fig. 3 is a block diagram of an example mobile device 200 coupled via an
   example connection device 310 to an example component 320 (e.g., a controller, a
   user interface, or an endpoint) of a home automation system. The component
   includes a wired serial communication interface 330, a Wi-Fi Interface 340, as well as
15 a Programmable System-on-Chip (PSoC) 350 that may support a programming
   environment. The connection device 310 couples the wired serial communication
   interface (e.g., 30-pin dock interface, Lightning interface, or USB interface, etc.) 250
   of the mobile device 200 to the wired serial communication interface (e.g., a RS232
   interface or other type of interface) 330 of the component 320. The connection device
20 310 may include hardware to support such a connection. For example, if the interface
   250 is a Lightning interface and the interface 330 is an RS232 interface, the
   connection device 310 may include a processor, an authentication chip, as well as
   other hardware (not shown). Alternatively, if the interface 250 is a USB interface and
   the interface 330 is an RS232 interface, the connection device 310 may include a USB
25 translation device as well as other hardware (not shown).
            The mobile device 200 may detect when it is computed to a component via the
   the connection device 320, and control commands may be passed from the mobile
   device 200 over the connection device 320 to configure a Wi-Fi interface 340 of the
   component so that the component may join the Wi-Fi network 370. For example, in
30 response to input on the user interface of the configuration app 270, control
   commands may be sent over the connection device 320 to configure a network name
   (e.g., a service set identifier (SSID), a security type (e.g., Wired Equivalent Privacy
   (WEP), Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA), etc.) a password (e.g., a SSID password),

                                                 8
   addresses (e.g., an Internet Protocol (IP) address of the component, a subnet mask, an
    P address of a router, etc.) used to join the Wi-Fi network. Further, control
   commands may be passed from the mobile device 200 over the connection device 320
   to configure other hardware and software 350 of the component 320. For example, in
 5 response to input on the user interface of the configuration app 270, control
   commands may be sent to configure the component's role, bindings and controller
   settings, firmware, etc.
            A universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter (UART) protocol and related
   application program interface (API) may support the exchange of these control
to commands. Under the protocol, the mobile device 200 may operate as a controller
   node, the connection device 310 may operate as a transparent middle node, and the
   component 330 may operate as a subordinate node. To establish communication, the
   mobile device 200 initially sends a common state packet over the connection device
   310. The common state packet includes a UART pass-through command that
15 instincts the connection device 310 to bridge communications. When the connection
   device 310 receives the common state packet, it determines a bus type of the interface
   the packet was received on, and detects the UART pass-through command. Based on
   the bus type and UART pass-through command, the connection device determines
   that the packet should be re-framed and sent out from a UART of the connection
20 device 310 to the component 330. The packet is then received by the component 330.
   An acknowledgement packet may be sent back from the component 330 to the mobile
   device 200. The acknowledgment packet may include an uplink flag to indicate the
   direction of travel. When the connection device 310 sees a packet with the uplink flag
   set, it may includes a UART pass-through command in the packet, and then forward it
2  onward to the mobile device 200. Upon receipt at the mobile device, the UART pass
   through command is used to distinguish between information originating at the
   connection device 200 and at the component 330. Through exchange of packets back
   and forth over the connection device 310, a communication channel is established
   between the mobile device 200 and component 330, usable when communication is
30 not yet possible via the Wi-Fi network 370.
            Fig. 4 is a series of views 400 of an example mobile device 200, showing an
   example user interface on the touch sensitive display screen 240 while a connection
   device 310 and component 320 are being coupled to the mobile device. In view 410,

                                                9
   the connection device is still disconnected from the mobile device, and a status of
   "not connected" is indicated in a connected accessory display area 415. Other
   components accessible on the Wi-Fi network are indicated in Wi-Fi display area 417.
   The mobile device 200 detects when the connection device 310 is connected to it, and
 5 updates the view. In view 420, the connection device 310 is now connected to the
   wired serial conumunication interface 250 of the mobile device, but not to the
   component 320. The connection device 310 is indicated in the connected accessory
   display area 415. The mobile device 200 detects when a component is connected to
   the connection device 310 and updates the view. In view 430, the component 320 is
1o now connected to the connection device 310. The component 310, here a controller
   having the model number "SSL-PO18", is indicated in the connected accessory
   display area 415. In view 440, the user has selected the connection device in the
   connected accessory display area 415, and additional information about the
   connection device 310 is shown. In view 450, the user has selected the component in
IS the connected accessory display area 415, and a main menu 460 for the component is
   shown. Using the main menu 460, the user may configure the component 320 to join
   the Wi-Fi network as well as configure additional settings of the component. When
   the component 320 has joined the Wi-Fi network, it may be shown in the Wi-Fi
   display area 417 of the views 410-430, for subsequent access.
20         Fig. 5 is a series of views 500 of an example mobile device 200, showing an
   example user interface while a user configures a component 320 to join a Wi-Fi
   network. From the main menu 460 in view 510, a user may select an option 520 to
   configure the Wi-Fi settings of the component 320, and view 530 is then shown. In
   view 530, the user interface shows a current Wi-Fi network that the mobile device
2M 200 is connected to in area 532, and recently joined Wi-Fi networks in area 534. For
   these Wi-Fi networks, a network name, security, password, addresses and other
   information are already known by the mobile device 200. Still other accessible
   networks may be shown in area 536. A user may need to enter a network name,
   security, password, addresses and/or other information if one of these networks is
30 desired, as shown in views 540 and 550. Addresses may also be entered using area
   538 in view 530. In response to the user input entered in views 540, 550 and in area
   538, the mobile device 200 sends control commands via the connection device 310 to
   the component 320 to configure the network name, security type, password,

                                                10
   addresses, etc. to cause the component to join the Wi-Fi network. Once the
   component 320 has joined the Wi-Fi network, further control commands may be sent
   to the component 320 via the connection device 310 or via the now-accessible Wi-Fi
   network.
 5         Fig. 6 is a series of views 600 of an example mobile device 200, showing an
   example user interface while a user configures a role of a component 320 in the home
   automation system. From the main menu 460 shown in view 610, a user may select
   an option 620 to configure a role of the component 320, and an updated view 630 is
   shown. In view 630, various available roles for the component 320 are displayed in
to an area 640, and the user selects a desired role. In response to the user input, the
   mobile device 200 sends control commands to the component 320 to configure the
   role.
           Fig. 7 is a series of views 700 of an example mobile device 200, showing an
   example user interface while a user updates firmware of a component 320. From the
15 main menu 460 shown in view 710, a user may select an option 720 to configure
   firmware, and an updated view 730 is shown. In view 730, various available
   firnwares, and versions thereof are shown. Firmware may be locally stored on the
   mobile device 200, or available in an online repository accessible by the mobile
   device 200. Upon selection of a firmware and version by the user, the user interface
20 displays a confirmation prompt 740, as shown in view 750. In response to user
   confirmation, the firmware is transferred from the mobile device 200 to the
   component 320. A status display 760 is presented as the firmware is transferred, as
   shown in view 770. A user may be able to cancel the transfer prior to its completion,
   as shown in view 780
25         Fig. 8 is a series of views 800 of an example mobile device 200, showing an
   example user interface while a user configures bindings and controller settings. From
   the main menu 460 shown in view 810, a user may select an option 820 to configure
   the bindings and controller settings. Upon selection, a web interface 840 displays
   controls for manipulating the bindings and controller settings, as shown in view 820.
30 The web interface may be provided from the component 320 or another source, and
   the mobile device 200 may simply load and display webpages provided, without
   understanding their content.

                                                11
            Fig. 9 is a flow chart of an example sequence of steps 900 to configure a
   component of a home automation system that is initially is inaccessible on a Wi-Fi
   network. The sequence of steps 900 may summarize aspects of the above discussed
   operation. At step 910, a configuration app is executed on a mobile device. A user
 5 interface of the configuration app is displayed on a touch-sensitive display screen. At
   step 920, a connection device is used to couple the mobile device to the component
   which is initially inaccessible on the Wi-Fi network. The connection device couples a
   wired serial communication interface of the mobile device to a wired serial
   communication of the component. At step 930, in response to input entered in the
10 user interface being displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen, the mobile device
   sends control signals to the component via the connection device to configure Wi-Fi
   settings of the component, to cause the component join the Wi-Fi network At step
   940, in response to further input entered in the user interface being displayed on the
   touch-sensitive display screen, the mobile device sends additional control signals to
IS the component via the connection device or the Wi-Fi network to configure additional
   settings of the now Wi-Fi accessible component.
            It should be understood that various adaptations and modifications may be
   made within the spirit and scope of the embodiments discussed herein. Further, it
   should be understood that at least some portions of the above-described techniques
20 may be implemented in software, in hardware, or a combination thereof. A software
   implementation may include computer-executable instructions stored in a non
   transitory computer-readable medium, such as a volatile or persistent memory, a hard
   disk, a compact disk (CD), or other tangible medium. A hardware implementation
   may include configured processors, logic circuits, application specific integrated
2  circuits, and/or other types of hardware components. Further, a combined
   software/hardware implementation may include both computer-executable
   instructions stored in a non-transitory computer-readable medium, as well as one or
   more hardware components, for example, processors, memories, etc. Accordingly, it
   should be understood that the above descriptions are meant to be taken only by way of
30 example.

                                                  12
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A method for configuring a component of a home automation system that initially is
   inaccessible on a Wi-Fi network, the method comprising:
            executing a configuration application (app) on a mobile device having a touch
 5 sensitive-display screen, a user interface of the configuration app being displayed to a user
   on the touch-sensitive display screen;
           coupling the mobile device to the component of the home automation system via a
   connection device, the connection device connecting a wired serial communication
   interface of the mobile device to a wired serial communication interface of the component
10 and capable of operating as a transparent middle node in response to a pass-through
   command;
           in response to input specifying Wi-Fi settings that is entered in the user interface
   being displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen, sending control signals from the
   mobile device to the component via the connection device to configure Wi-Fi settings of
is the component to cause the component to join the Wi-Fi network, the control signals to
   include the pass-through command to cause the connection device to forward the control
   signals to the component; and
           in response to further input specifying a component role or bindings that is entered
   in the user interface being displayed on the touch-sensitive display screen, sending
20 additional control signals from the mobile device to the component via the connection
   device to at least one of assign the component a role within the home automation system
   or bind the component to a controller of the home automation system, the additional
   control signals to include the pass-through command to cause the connection device to
   forward the control signals to the component.
25 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sending additional control signals sends the
   additional control signals via the Wi-Fi network to the component.
   3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the mobile device is a smartphone.

                                                 13
   4. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the wired serial
   communication interface of the mobile device is a Lightning interface and the wired serial
   communication interface of the component is an RS232 interface.
   5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the wired serial communication
 5 interface of the mobile device is a Universal Serial Bus (USB) interface and the wired
   serial communication interface of the component is an RS232 interface.
   6. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mobile device operates as a
   controller node, the component operates as a subordinate node, and the control signals are
   packets sent from the controller node to the transparent middle node that include a
10 universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter (UART) pass-through command to cause the
   connection device to forward the packets from a UART to the subordinate node.
   7. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the home automation system
   controls lighting devices, and the component is a lighting controller.
   8. The method of any one of claims I to 6, wherein the component is a keypad.
is 9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
            executing a control app on the mobile device or another mobile device, the control
   app configured to control ongoing operation of the home automation system after the Wi
   Fi settings and additional settings of the component have been configured.
   10. A system for configuring a component of a home automation system that initially is
20 inaccessible on a Wi-Fi network, the system comprising:
            a mobile device having a processor, a memory, a wired serial communication
   interface, and a touch-sensitive display screen, wherein the memory is configured to store
   a configuration application (app), the touch-sensitive display screen is configured to show
   a user interface of the configuration app, and the processor is configured to execute the
25 configuration app, and the configuration app, when executed, is configured to send control
   commands to over the wired serial communication interface in response to input

                                                  14
   specifying Wi-Fi settings that is entered in the user interface, the control commands to
   configure Wi-Fi settings of the component of the home automation system to cause the
   component to join the Wi-Fi network, the control commands to include a pass-through
   command; and
 5         a connection device coupled to the wired serial communication interface of the
   mobile device and a wired serial communication interface of the component, the
   connection device configured to operate as a transparent middle node between the mobile
   device and the component in response to the pass-through command and propagate the
   control commands there between,
10         wherein the configuration app, when executed, is further operable to send
   additional control signals to the component via the Wi-Fi network to at least one of assign
   the component a role within the home automation system or bind the component to a
   controller of the home automation system, the additional control signals to include the
   pass-through command.
is  11. The system of claim 10, wherein the mobile device is a smartphone.
    12. The system of claim 10 or 11, wherein the wired serial communication interface of the
   mobile device is a Lightning interface and the wired serial communication interface of the
   component is an RS232 interface.
    13. The system of claim 10 or 11, wherein the wired serial communication interface of the
20 mobile device is a universal serial bus (USB) interface and the wired serial
   communication interface of the component is an RS232 interface.
    14. The system of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the mobile device is configured to
   send packets to the connection device that include a universal asynchronous
   receiver/transmitter (UART) pass-through command, and the connection device, in
25 response passes the packets out a UART.
    15. The system of any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the home automation system
   controls lighting devices, and the component is a lighting controller.

                                               15
  16. The system of any one of claim 10 to 14, wherein the component is a keypad.
  17. The system of any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein the memory of the mobile device or
  a memory of another mobile device is configured to store a control app, the control app,
  when executed by the processor of the mobile device or a processor of the another mobile
5 device, to control ongoing operation of the home automation system after the Wi-Fi
  settings and additional settings of the component have been configured.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
