                                            ABSTRACT
  The utility model discloses an air-cushioned damping and noise-reducing device for elevators in
  intelligent buildings, including an upper cushion plate, cylinders, an air cushion plate and an air
  cushion; two symmetric spring seats are fixedly provided at a lower end of the upper cushion
5 plate, and the cylinders are fixedly arranged at an upper end of the air cushion plate
  symmetrically; a push rod is connected to a piston inside the cylinder, a top end of the push rod
  is connected to the inside of the spring seat, and a spring inside the spring seat is sleeved over
  the push rod; a spring between the cylinders is further connected to a top end of the air cushion
  plate, a buffer plate is connected to a top end of the spring, and the air cushion is arranged at a
o lower end of the air cushion plate; and a plurality of vertical vent holes are evenly provided in
  the air cushion plate. The utility model is simple in structure, has a reasonable design and has a
  triple-damping effect, thus effectively reducing the falling speed of the elevator and further
  ensuring the safety of the personnel in the elevator, and meanwhile further effecting noise
  reduction and better protection for the personnel in the elevator.
5

        i/1
    1
2
  5            6
      Figure 1

         AIR CUSHIONED DAMPING AND NOISE-REDUCING DEVICE FOR
                         ELEVATORS IN INTELLIGENT BUILDINGS
           This application claims the benefit of priority to Chinese Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>21.7 titled "AIR CUSHIONED DAMPING AND NOISE-REDUCING DEVICE
 5 FOR ELEVATORS IN INTELLIGENT BUILDINGS", filed with the Chinese State Intellectual
   Property Office on February 10, 2017, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]   The utility model relates to the field of elevator, and in particular to an air-cushioned
 o damping and noise-reducing device for elevators in intelligent buildings.
                                           BACKGROUND
   [0002]   In recent years, with social progress and the improvement of people's living standard,
   especially with the acceleration of urbanization and the rapid development of the elevator
   industry, people have posed higher and higher requirements on the damping effect and safety
15 protection of elevators. In particular, with the current emergence of a large number of intelligent
   communities, intelligent office buildings, intelligent schools and the like, requirements on the
   elevators equipped in these buildings are also increased gradually. Therefore, a damping device
   is required to be installed at the bottom of the elevator car to dampen the elevator. In existing
   elevators, a rubber damping device or a spring damping device is typically used. For the
20 elevators using a rubber damping device, since the rubber is easily torn under heavy load
   impact, and the rubber is prone to aging and fracturing, this rubber damping device has a poor
   damping effect, a short service life and heavy noises. For the elevator using a spring damping
   device, the elevator cannot be started smoothly, the surface of the spring is prone to rusting, the
   service life is short, and meanwhile heavy noises are generated. In addition, when the elevator

   falls down accidently, the rubber or the spring vibrates up and down and consumes the kinetic
   energy of the elevator slowly, thus resulting in poor safety performance. Moreover, existing
   elevators have no good protection measures in the process of falling due to elevator accident,
   which may lead to severe accidents, and therefore the personnel in the elevator cannot be well
 5 protected.
                                              SUMMARY
   [0003]    An object of the utility model is to provide an air cushioned damping and
   noise-reducing device for elevators in intelligent buildings so as to address the problems
 0 mentioned in the above background art section.
   [0004]    In order to achieve the above object, the following technical solutions are provided
   according to the present utility model:
   [0005]    An air-cushioned damping and noise-reducing device for elevators in intelligent
   buildings includes an upper cushion plate, cylinders, an air cushion plate and an air cushion;
 s two symmetric spring seats are fixedly provided at a lower end of the upper cushion plate, and
   the cylinders are fixedly arranged at an upper end of the air cushion plate symmetrically; a push
   rod is connected to a piston inside the cylinder, a top end of the push rod is connected to the
   inside of the spring seat, and a spring inside the spring seat is sleeved over the push rod; a
   spring between the cylinders is further connected to a top end of the air cushion plate, a buffer
20 plate is connected to a top end of the spring, and the air cushion is arranged at a lower end of
   the air cushion plate; and a plurality of vertical vent holes are evenly provided in the air cushion
   plate.
   [0006]    As a further solution of the present utility model, the number of the springs on the air
   cushion plate is two.
25 [0007]    As a still further solution of the present utility model, a buffer material is further
   provided in the air cushion.
                                                      2

   [0008]    As compared with the prior art, the utility model has the following advantageous
   effects: the utility model is simple in structure, has a reasonable design and has a triple-damping
   effect, thus effectively reducing the falling speed of the elevator and further ensuring the safety
   of the personnel in the elevator, and meanwhile further effecting noise reduction and better
 5 protection for the personnel in the elevator. Through a simplified design, the utility model meets
   people's requirements on the elevator in terms of comfort and safety, and complies with the
   development requirements on modern intelligent buildings.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0009]    Figure 1 is a schematic view showing the structure of an air cushioned damping and
 0 noise-reducing device for elevators.
   [0010]    In Figure: 1: upper cushion plate; 2: spring seat; 3: spring; 4: push rod; 5: cylinder; 6:
   air cushion plate 7: buffer plate; 8: vent hole; 9: air cushion; 10: piston.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0011]    The technical solutions of the embodiments of the utility model will be described
 5 clearly and fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings of the embodiments of the
   utility model. Obviously, the described embodiments are merely some but not all the
   embodiments of the utility model. All the other embodiments obtained by those skilled in the art
   based on the embodiments of the utility model without creative efforts shall fall within the
   scope of protection of the utility model.
20 [0012]    With reference to Figure 1, in the embodiment of the utility model, an air-cushioned
   damping and noise-reducing device for elevators in intelligent buildings includes an upper
   cushion plate 1, cylinders 5, an air cushion plate 6 and an air cushion 9; two symmetric spring
   seats 2 are fixedly provided at a lower end of the upper cushion plate 1, and the cylinders 5 are
   fixedly arranged at an upper end of the air cushion plate 6 symmetrically; a push rod 4 is
25 connected to a piston 10 inside the cylinder 5, a top end of the push rod 4 is connected to the
   inside of the spring seat 2, and a spring 3 inside the spring seat 2 is sleeved over the push rod 4;
                                                      3

   two spring 3 between the cylinders 5 are further connected to a top end of the air cushion plate
   6, and a buffer plate 7 is connected to top ends of the two springs 3; the air cushion 9 is
   arranged at a lower end of the air cushion plate 6, and the air cushion 9 is provided therein with
   a buffer material; and a plurality of vertical vent holes 8 are evenly provided in the air cushion
 5 plate 6. The falling speed of the elevator is reduced under the action of the cylinders 5, the
   falling speed is further reduced under the action of the springs 3 and the buffer plate 7, and is
   eventually reduced once again under the action of the air cushion 9; meanwhile, the noise
   generated is absorbed, thus achieving the effect of noise reduction.
   [0013]    It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the utility model is not limited to the
 o details of the foregoing exemplary embodiments, and the utility model may be embodied in
   other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the utility
   model. Therefore, the embodiments should be considered in all respects as illustrative rather
   than limiting, and the scope of the utility model is defined by the appended claims rather than
   the foregoing description. Therefore, all the changes that fall within the meaning and range of
 s the equivalents of the claims are intended to be included in the utility model. Any reference sign
   in the claims should not be construed as limiting the claim involved.
   [0014]    In addition, it should be understood that while the specification is described according
   to the embodiments, not each embodiment includes only one independent technical solution.
   Such description of the specification is merely for the sake of clarity, and those skilled in the art
20 should consider the specification as a whole. The technical solutions in individual embodiments
   may also be combined appropriately so as to form other embodiments that can be understood by
   those skilled in the art.
                                                      4

                                               CLAIMS
        1. An air-cushioned damping and noise-reducing device for elevators in intelligent
  buildings, including an upper cushion plate, cylinders, an air cushion plate and an air cushion;
  characterized in that two symmetric spring seats are fixedly provided at a lower end of the
5 upper cushion plate, and the cylinders are fixedly arranged at an upper end of the air cushion
  plate symmetrically; a push rod is connected to a piston inside the cylinder, a top end of the
  push rod is connected to the inside of the spring seat, and a spring inside the spring seat is
  sleeved over the push rod; a spring between the cylinders is further connected to a top end of
  the air cushion plate, a buffer plate is connected to a top end of the spring, and the air cushion is
o arranged at a lower end of the air cushion plate; a plurality of vertical vent holes are evenly
  provided in the air cushion plate; the number of the springs on the air cushion plate is two; and
  a buffer material is further provided in the air cushion.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      1/1
Figure 1

