REFRIGERATION APPARATUS
ABSTRACT
A refrigeration apparatus (1) comprises a compressor (2), a condenser (4, 6), an expansion
mechanism (5), and an evaporator (6, 4). A refrigerant containing R32, and refrigerator oil for
lubricating the compressor (2) are used in the refrigeration apparatus (1). An acid scavenger
added in an amount of 1.0 wt% to 5.0 wt% is blended in the refrigerator oil.

                                                   1
REFRIGERATION APPARATUS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]    The present invention relates to a refrigeration apparatus.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]    Conventionally, refrigerator oil used for air-conditioning apparatuses and other
refrigeration apparatuses has contained substances for suppressing deterioration of the
refrigerator oil and corrosion of expansion valves caused by in hydrofluoric acid and other acids
produced by refrigerant decomposition. For example, in the refrigerator oil disclosed in Patent
Literature 1 (Japanese Laid-open Patent Application No. 2001-226690), at least 0.05 wt% of an
acid scavenger is added.
[0003]    In addition, conventionally, air-conditioning apparatuses and other refrigeration
apparatuses have used R134a which is tetrafluoroethane, R410A and R407C which are mixed
refrigerants, and other fluorine-based refrigerants. However, although these fluorine-based
refrigerants do not contain chlorine and therefore have little effect of destroying the ozone layer,
they strongly impact global warming due to the greenhouse effect. In view of this, R32,
represented by the molecular formula CH 2F2 , has recently been attracting attention as a fluorine
based refrigerant having a low global warming potential.
[0004]    However, relative to R410A, R407C, and other fluorine-based refrigerants, R32 is less
stable and, by being exposed to high-temperature environments or being mixed with air and
water, decomposes more readily and produces more hydrofluoric acid and other acids by
decomposing. There is a risk that the acid produced by refrigerant decomposition will cause the
refrigerator oil used in the refrigeration apparatus to degrade, and will corrode expansion valves
and other components. On the basis of Patent Literature 1 (Japanese Laid-open Patent
Application No. 2001-226690), refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion
cannot be suppressed even if 0.05 wt% of an acid scavenger is added to the R32. Note that, the
expansion valve may be made of brass or stainless steel, but the corrosion thereof cannot be
sufficiently suppressed even when a highly corrosion-resistant stainless steel expansion valve is
used.

                                                    2
[0005]    R32 also has poorer compatibility with refrigerator oil than other fluorine-based
refrigerants, causing the refrigerant and the oil to separate more readily. When the refrigerant
and the oil separate readily, only poorly lubricating refrigerant is supplied to the sliding parts of
a compressor configuring the air-conditioning apparatus, whereby the sliding parts of the
compressor produce abnormal amounts of heat, facilitating the production of acid by refrigerant
decomposition.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0006]    It is the object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the foregoing disadvantages.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]    A refrigeration apparatus according to an aspect of the present invention comprises a
compressor; a condenser; an expansion mechanism; and an evaporator, wherein refrigerant
containing R32 and refrigerator oil is used for lubricating the compressor, the refrigerator oil
including 1.0 to 5.0 wt% acid scavenger, and the refrigerant including at least 60 wt% of R32.
[0008]    The refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention uses a
refrigerant containing R32 represented by the molecular formula CH 2F2. The refrigerant
containing R32 is either R32 alone or a mixture refrigerant containing R32. Such an R32-based
refrigerant has a lower global warming potential than R41OA, R407C, and other fluorine-based
refrigerants, but produces a greater amount of hydrofluoric acid and other acids on
decomposing. Therefore, an R32-based refrigerant more readily causes refrigerator oil
deterioration due to the refrigeration apparatus running for a long time, and corrosion of the
expansion valve and other components provided to the refrigeration apparatus. However, the
acid scavenger contained in the refrigerator oil has the effect of scavenging the acid produced by
refrigerant decomposition. Because the acid scavenger is only added in an amount of 5.0 wt%
or less, decreases in the lubrication performance of the refrigerator oil due to excess acid
scavenger are suppressed. Therefore, the refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the
present invention can suppress refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion.

                                                   3
[0009]    Preferably, the acid scavenger added in an amount of 2.0 to 5.0 wt% is blended in the
refrigerator oil.
[0010]    Because the amount of acid scavenger added to the refrigerator oil used by the
refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention is at least 2.0 wt%,
refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion are more effectively suppressed.
[0011]    Preferably, the expansion mechanism has an expansion valve, and fluorine, which is a
decomposition product of the refrigerant adhering to the expansion valve, is detected in an
amount of 6.0 wt% or less.
[0012]    Because the refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention has a
small amount of fluorine as a refrigerant decomposition product adhering to the expansion valve
after operation, refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion are more effectively
suppressed.
[0013]    Preferably, an extreme pressure agent is further blended with the refrigerator oil.
[0014]    The refrigerator oil used by the refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present
invention contains the extreme pressure agent. In the compressor of the refrigeration apparatus,
the R32-based refrigerant is used in a state of higher pressure than would be R410A, R407C,
and other fluorine-based refrigerants. Therefore, the load imposed on the sliding parts of the
compressor which compresses the R32-based refrigerant readily increases, and abrasion and
burning readily occur due to a thinner coating of the refrigerator oil formed between sliding
member surfaces. The extreme pressure agent is an additive for preventing abrasion and
burning of the sliding parts of the compressor of the refrigeration apparatus, by reacting with the
sliding member surfaces and forming a coating in the compressor. Therefore, the refrigeration
apparatus according to the fourth aspect can more effectively suppress abrasion and burning of
the sliding parts.
[0015]    Preferably, an antioxidant is further blended with the refrigerator oil.
[0016]    The refrigerator oil used by the refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present
invention contains an antioxidant. The antioxidant is an additive for suppressing oxidation of

                                                    4
the refrigerant and/or the oil due to oxygen. Therefore, the refrigeration apparatus according to
the fifth aspect can more effectively suppress refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve
corrosion.
[0017]    Preferably, the refrigerator oil contains polyvinyl ether oil.
[0018]    Preferably, the refrigerator oil contains polyol ester oil.
[0019]    Preferably, the refrigerant contains at least 60 wt% of R32.
[0020]    Preferably, the refrigerator oil is one in which there is no separation in a mixture with
the refrigerant during startup.
[0021]    The mixture of the refrigerant and the refrigerator oil used by the refrigeration
apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention does not separate into two layers of the
refrigerator oil and the refrigerant during startup of the refrigeration apparatus. Therefore, the
decomposition of refrigerant separated from the mixture of the refrigerant and the refrigerator
oil and the production of acid are prevented.
[0022]    Preferably, the temperature at which separation occurs in the mixture for which the oil
concentration is the minimum value is -35 0 C or greater, and is also less than the temperature of
the mixture when the oil concentration is the minimum value. The oil concentration is the
concentration of the refrigerator oil contained in the mixture of the refrigerator oil and the
refrigerant. During startup of the refrigeration apparatus, the oil concentration exhibits the
minimum value in the process during which the temperature of the mixture rises.
[0023]    The refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention can suppress
refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion, and can also suppress decreases in
the lubrication performance of the refrigerator oil due to an excess of the acid scavenger.
[0024]    The refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention can more
effectively suppress refrigerator oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion.
[0025]    The refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention can more
effectively suppress abrasion and burning of the sliding parts.

                                                   5
[0026]    The refrigeration apparatus in an embodiment of the present invention can prevent the
decomposition of refrigerant separated from the mixture of the refrigerant and the refrigerator
oil and the production of acid.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027]    FIG. 1 is a refrigerant circuit diagram of an air-conditioning apparatus according to an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0028]    FIG. 2 is a graph showing two-layer separation temperature curves of a mixture of R32
refrigerant and polyvinyl ether oil, and the operation locus of the mixture; and
[0029]    FIG. 3 is a graph showing a two-layer separation temperature curve of a mixture of R32
refrigerant and a polyol ester oil, and the operation locus of the mixture.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0030]    <Embodiments>
          There shall now be described an air-conditioning apparatus 1 as a refrigeration
apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention. FIG. 1 is a refrigerant circuit
diagram of the air-conditioning apparatus 1. The air-conditioning apparatus 1 is configured
primarily from a compressor 2, a four-way switching valve 3, an outdoor heat exchanger 4, an
expansion mechanism 5, and an indoor heat exchanger 6. In FIG. 1, the solid-line arrows
represent the flow of refrigerant during an air-cooling operation, and the dashed-line arrows
represent the flow of refrigerant during an air-heating operation.
[0031]    The refrigerating cycle of the air-conditioning apparatus 1 during the air-cooling
operation shall now be described. First, the compressor 2 compresses low-pressure gas
refrigerant and discharges high-pressure gas refrigerant. The refrigerant discharged from the
compressor 2 passes through the four-way switching valve 3 to be supplied to the outdoor heat
exchanger 4. The outdoor heat exchanger 4 condenses the high-pressure gas refrigerant and
discharges high-pressure liquid refrigerant. The refrigerant discharged from the outdoor heat
exchanger 4 passes through an expansion valve of the expansion mechanism 5, becoming low-

                                                    6
pressure gas-liquid mixed refrigerant, which is supplied to the indoor heat exchanger 6. The
indoor heat exchanger 6 evaporates the low-pressure gas-liquid mixed refrigerant and discharges
low-pressure gas refrigerant. The refrigerant discharged from the indoor heat exchanger 6 is
supplied to the compressor 2.
[0032]    During the air-cooling operation, the outdoor heat exchanger 4 functions as a condenser
and the indoor heat exchanger 6 functions as an evaporator. That is, the interior of a room is
cooled by latent heat of evaporation of the refrigerant as produced in the indoor heat exchanger
6. On the other hand, during the air-heating operation, the four-way switching valve 3 is
switched, whereby the outdoor heat exchanger 4 functions as an evaporator and the indoor heat
exchanger 6 functions as a condenser. That is, the interior of the room is heated by the latent
heat of condensation of the refrigerant as produced in the outdoor heat exchanger 4.
[0033]    In the present embodiment, an R32-based refrigerant, which is a fluorine-based
refrigerant, is used as the refrigerant circulating through the refrigerant circuit of the air
conditioning apparatus 1. An R32-based refrigerant is a refrigerant containing R32.
Specifically, the R32-based refrigerant is either R32 alone or a mixed refrigerant containing
R32. R32 is represented by the molecular formula CH 2F2. The mixed refrigerant containing
R32 is, for example, a mixed refrigerant containing polyol ester oil or another ester-based
refrigerator oil, and a mixed refrigerant containing at least 60 wt% of R32. The mixed
refrigerant containing R32 preferably contains IFO-1234yf, IFO-1234ze(E), and other IFO
based refrigerants. The global warming potential of the R32 contained in the mixed refrigerant
is preferably 1000 or less, more preferably 500 or less, even more preferably 300 or less, and
particularly preferably 100 or less.
[0034]    Compared with other R410A, R407C, and other fluorine-based refrigerants, R32-based
refrigerants have less of an impact on global warming but are less stable, and thus produce more
hydrofluoric acid and other acids upon decomposing. The acid produced by refrigerant
decomposition causes the refrigerator oil used in the compressor 2 to degrade and corrodes the
expansion valve and other components of the expansion mechanism 5.
[0035]    Specifically, compared with R410A and R407C, R32 has a lower pyrolysis temperature
of approximately 600'C, and is decomposed more readily by heat and oxygen. R32 is thermally

                                                    7
decomposed by the following reaction formula (I), producing carbene (CH 2) and fluorine ions
(F).
[0036]    CH 2F 2 -> CH 2 + 2F(I)
[0037]    The carbene produced in reaction formula (I) is oxidized according to the following
reaction formula (II), producing formaldehyde, and is further oxidized according to the
following reaction formula (III), producing formic acid.
[0038]    2CH 2 + 02 -- 2HCHO                   (II)
[0039]    2HCHO + 02 -- 2HCOOH                  (III)
[0040]    The carbene dyad produced in reaction formula (I) produces ethylene (C 2H 4 ) through a
coupling reaction. The ethylene is oxidized by the following reaction formula (IV), producing
acetaldehyde, and is further oxidized by the following reaction formula (V), producing acetic
acid.
[0041]    2C2H 4 + 02  --  2CH 3CHO             (IV)
[0042]    2CH 3CHO + 02     -- 2CH 3COOH        (V)
[0043]    The fluorine ions produced in reaction formula (I) react with the water contained in the
refrigerant and the refrigerator oil, producing hydrogen fluoride (1F) through the following
reaction formula (VI).
[0044]    4F + 2H 2 0 -- 4HF + 02           (VI)
[0045]    The R32 also reacts with oxygen through the following reaction formula (VII),
producing hydrogen fluoride (1F).
[0046]    CH 2F2 + 02  ->  CO 2 + 2HF        (VII)
[0047]    As described above, R32 produces hydrogen fluoride (hydrofluoric acid), formic acid,
acetic acid, and the like through decomposition. The produced acid dissolves in the water

                                                    8
contained in the refrigerant and refrigerator oil and circulates through the refrigerant circuit.
When acid adheres to the expansion valve of the expansion mechanism 5, the metal components
of the expansion valve corrode, which causes the expansion mechanism 5 to malfunction.
[0048]    Next, three examples are given of operation modes of the air-conditioning apparatus 1
in which decomposition of the R32 refrigerant readily occurs. The first example is an operation
in which the temperature of high-pressure gas refrigerant discharged from the compressor 2
exceeds, e.g., 120 0 C. At this time, the temperature of the sliding parts inside the compressor 2
will sometimes locally be 600 0 C or more, in which case the R32 refrigerant may thermally
decompose. The second example is an operation performed after a large amount of air has
mistakenly gotten mixed in the refrigerant circuit and when the air-conditioning apparatus 1 is
installed and maintenance or other work is performed. In this case, the R32 is decomposed by
the oxygen contained in the air inside the refrigerant circuit. The third example is an operation
performed when liquid refrigerant has returned to the compressor 2 during startup of the air
conditioning apparatus 1, the refrigerator oil and the liquid refrigerant have separated inside the
compressor 2, and the liquid refrigerant has been supplied to the sliding parts of the compressor
2. In this case, normal sliding of the sliding parts is hindered by the liquid refrigerant, and as a
result, there is a risk of the R32 thermally decomposing due to abnormal heat generation of the
sliding parts.
[0049]    In view of this, the refrigerator oil used in the air-conditioning apparatus 1 contains 1.0
wt% or more of an acid scavenger. The refrigerator oil is a lubricant used in order to prevent
abrasion and burning of the sliding parts of the compressor 2. When, for example, the
compressor 2 is a scroll compressor, the sliding parts of the compressor 2 are thrust sliding
surfaces between the two scrolls, sliding surfaces between the crankshaft and the bearing, and
the like. The acid scavenger is an additive used in order to scavenge hydrofluoric acid and other
acids produced by the decomposition of the R32-based refrigerant.
[0050]    Next, the composition of the refrigerator oil used in the present embodiment is
described. The refrigerator oil primarily comprises a base oil, an acid scavenger, an extreme
pressure agent, and an antioxidant.
[0051]    A mineral oil or a synthetic oil is used as the base oil. An oil that is highly compatible
with the R32-based refrigerant used in the air-conditioning apparatus 1 is selected as appropriate

                                                    9
as the base oil. The mineral oil is, for example, a naphthene-based mineral oil or a paraffin
based mineral oil. The synthetic oil is, for example, an ester compound, an ether compound, a
poly(a-olefin), or an alkyl benzene. Specific examples of the synthetic oil include a polyvinyl
ether, a polyol ester, a polyalkylene glycol, or the like. In the present embodiment, a polyvinyl
ether, a polyol ester, or another synthetic oil is preferably used as the base oil. A mixture
combining two or more of the mineral oils or synthetic oils described above may also be used as
the base oil.
[0052]    The acid scavenger is an additive used in order to react with hydrofluoric acid and other
acids produced by the decomposition of the R32-based refrigerant, thereby suppressing
refrigerator oil deterioration caused by the acid. The refrigerator oil contains 1.0 wt% or more
of the acid scavenger. The acid scavenger is, for example, an epoxy compound, a carbodiimide
compound, or a terpene-based compound. Specific examples of the acid scavenger include 2
ethylhexyl glycidyl ether, phenyl glycidyl ether, epoxidized cyclohexylcarbinol, di(alkylphenyl)
carbodiimide, pl-pinene, and the like.
[0053]    The extreme pressure agent is an additive used in order to prevent abrasion and burning
of the sliding parts of the compressor 2. The refrigerator oil prevents contact between sliding
members by forming an oil film between member surfaces of the sliding parts that slide against
each other. However, the sliding members readily come in contact with each other when a low
viscosity refrigerator oil such as polyvinyl ether oil is used and when the pressure exerted on the
sliding members is high. The extreme pressure agent suppresses the occurrence of abrasion and
burning by reacting with the member surfaces that slide against each other of the sliding parts
and forming a coating. The extreme pressure agent is, for example, a phosphate ester, a
phosphite, a thiophosphate, a sulfide ester, a sulfide, a thiobisphenol, or the like. Specific
examples of the extreme pressure agent include tricresyl phosphate (TCP), triphenyl phosphate
(TPP), triphenyl phosphorothioate (TPPT), an amine, a C 11-14 side chain alkyl, and monohexyl
and dihexyl phosphate. TCP adsorbs to the surfaces of the sliding members and forms a coating
of phosphate by decomposing.
[0054]    The antioxidant is an additive used in order to prevent oxidation of the refrigerator oil.
Specific examples of the antioxidant include: zinc dithiophosphate; an organic sulfur compound;
2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-ethylphenol, 2,2'-methylene bis(4-methyl
6-tert-butylphenol), and other phenols; phenyl-a-naphthylamine, N,N'-di-phenyl-p-phenylene

                                                   10
diamine, and other amine-based antioxidants; N,N'-disalicylidene-1,2-diaminopropane; and the
like.
[0055]     In the present embodiment, the hydrofluoric acid and other acids produced by the
decomposition of the R32-based refrigerant is scavenged by the acid scavenger, 1.0 wt% or
more of which is contained in the refrigerator oil. Deterioration of the refrigerator oil and
corrosion of the expansion valve of the expansion mechanism 5, which are caused by the acid
produced by the decomposition of the R32-based refrigerant, are thereby suppressed. Corrosion
of the other components of the air-conditioning apparatus 1 is also suppressed. Therefore, the
reliability of the air-conditioning apparatus 1 is improved by using refrigerator oil in the present
embodiment.
[0056]     The following is a description, made with reference to FIGS. 2 and 3, of examples of
two-layer separation temperature curves of a mixture of R32 refrigerant and refrigerator oil
(referred to below simply as "the mixture"), and the operation locus of the mixture.
[0057]     In FIG. 2, the horizontal axis represents oil concentration, which is the concentration
(wt%) of polyvinyl ether oil which is the refrigerator oil contained in the mixture, and the
vertical axis represents the temperature of the mixture. The curves LI and L2 are two-layer
separation temperature curves. The area RI above the top curve LI and the area R2 below the
bottom curve L2 are where the R32 refrigerant and the polyvinyl ether oil separate into two
layers. The area R3 between the curve LI and the curve L2 is where the R32 refrigerant and the
polyvinyl ether oil do not separate into two layers. That is, the area R3 is where the R32
refrigerant and the polyvinyl ether oil dissolve with each other.
[0058]     In FIG. 3, the horizontal axis represents oil concentration, which is the concentration
(wt%) of polyol ester oil which is the refrigerator oil contained in the mixture, and the vertical
axis represents the temperature of the mixture. The curve L4 is a two-layer separation
temperature curve. The area R4 below the curve L4 is an area where the R32 refrigerant and the
polyol ester oil separate into two layers. The area R5 above the curve L4 is an area where the
R32 refrigerant and the polyol ester oil do not separate into two layers. That is, the area R5 is an
area where the R32 refrigerant and the polyol ester oil dissolve with each other.

                                                    11
[0059]    In FIGS. 2 and 3, the curve L3 represents the operation locus shared by the two
mixtures. Specifically, the curve L3 represents the transition of the state of the mixture inside
the compressor 2 during startup of the air-conditioning apparatus 1. Before the air-conditioning
apparatus 1 starts up, the mixture is in the state of the point P1 of the curve L3. At the point P1,
the oil concentration is approximately 70 wt%. When the air-conditioning apparatus 1 starts up,
the liquid refrigerant in the refrigerant circuit returns to the compressor 2, and the oil
concentration of the mixture therefore decreases. However, as the air-conditioning apparatus 1
thereafter continues to be operated, the temperature of the mixture rises because the temperature
of the compressor 2 rises, and the liquid refrigerant contained in the mixture gradually
evaporates. As a result, the oil concentration of the mixture increases. That is, during startup of
the air-conditioning apparatus 1, the oil concentration has a minimum value because the oil
concentration of the mixture increases after having decreased. In FIG. 2, the oil concentration
of the mixture is approximately 70 wt/o at the point P1 and therefore increases after having
decreased to approximately 30 wt% at the point P2. The point P2 indicates the state when the
oil concentration is at the minimum value. The temperature of the mixture when the oil
concentration thereof is at the minimum value is referred to below as the limit temperature. In
FIGS. 2 and 3, the limit temperature is the temperature of the state at the point P2, which is
approximately 00 C.
[0060]    In the present embodiment, the operation locus L3 of the mixture during startup of the
air-conditioning apparatus 1 is within the area R3 in FIG. 2 in which the R32 refrigerant and the
polyvinyl ether oil do not separate into two layers, and is within the area R5 in FIG. 3 in which
the R32 refrigerant and the polyol ester oil do not separate into two layers. Therefore, during
startup of the air-conditioning apparatus 1, the mixture does not separate into two layers of the
R32 refrigerant and the refrigerator oil. When the mixture does separate into two layers, the
separated R32 refrigerant decomposes for the reasons described above, and there is a possibility
that the expansion valve of the expansion mechanism 5 will corrode.
[0061]    In addition, in the present embodiment, the temperature at which the mixture when the
oil concentration is at the minimum value separates into two layers of the R32 refrigerant and
the refrigerator oil is -35'C or greater and less than the limit temperature. In FIG. 2, the
temperature at which the mixture when the oil concentration is at the minimum value separates
into two layers is indicated by the point P3, and is approximately -10 0 C. In FIG. 3, the
temperature at which the mixture when the oil concentration is at the minimum value separates

                                                    12
into two layers is indicated by the point P4, and is approximately -30'C. When the temperature
at which the mixture separates into two layers is equal to or greater than the limit temperature,
the point P2 is within the area R2 in FIG. 2 and the point P2 is within the area R4 in FIG. 3, and
the mixture could therefore separate into two layers of the R32 refrigerant and the refrigerator
oil during startup of the air-conditioning apparatus 1. The temperature at which the mixture of
the R32 and the refrigerator oil separates into two layers is higher than the temperature at which
a mixture of the refrigerator oil and R41OA or R407C would separate into two layers.
Therefore, the mixture of the R32 and the refrigerator oil readily separates into two layers
during startup of the air-conditioning apparatus 1. Therefore, using refrigerator oil for which the
temperature at which the mixture with the R32 refrigerant separates into two layers is less than
the limit temperature prevents two-layer separation of the mixture during startup of the air
conditioning apparatus 1 and improves the reliability of the air-conditioning apparatus 1.
[0062]    Depending on the composition of the refrigerator oil, when the refrigerant is R32, the
minimum value of the oil concentration of the mixture of refrigerant and refrigerator oil is 35
10 wt%, and the limit temperature of the mixture is 0 ± 10'C.
[0063]    <Examples>
          The test results for the refrigerator oil used by the refrigeration apparatus in the present
embodiment are described. In the refrigerator oil tests, a product prototype test was performed
and the impact of the refrigerator oil on the refrigeration apparatus was analyzed.
[0064]    In these tests, the refrigeration apparatus was run with varying added amounts of the
acid scavenger blended into the refrigerator oil. The state of the brass expansion valve of the
expansion mechanism of the refrigeration apparatus was then confirmed. The results of the
prototype test are shown in the following Table 1. The test conditions were such that the
temperature of the refrigerant gas discharged from the compressor was 120'C, the operating
time of the refrigeration apparatus was 2000 hours, and the operating pressure of the
refrigeration apparatus was a value set as appropriate. Polyvinyl ether oil was used as the base
oil of the refrigerator oil. 0.3 to 5.0 wt% of an acid scavenger was added to the refrigerator oil.
The expansion valve after the test was analyzed in terms of its elements by an energy-dispersive
X-ray apparatus to confirm the amount of fluorine, a product of refrigerant decomposition.

                                                           13
[0065]       In Table 1, in a test using R410A as the refrigerant, the amount of fluorine detected was
5.2 wt% and expansion valve corrosion was not confirmed, even when the amount of acid
scavenger added was 0.3 wt%. In a test using R32 as the refrigerant, the amount of fluorine
detected was 16.7 wt/o and expansion valve corrosion was confirmed in "R32-I" in which the
amount of acid scavenger added was 0.3 wt%. On the other hand, in "R32-II," "R32-III," R32
IV," and "R32-V," in which the amount of acid scavenger added was from 1.0 to 5.0 wt%, the
amount of fluorine detected was 6.0 wt% or less and expansion valve corrosion was not
confirmed.
[0066] <Table 1>
                                     R410A          R32-I         R32-II      R32-III      R32-IV        R32-V
Test refrigerant                     R410A           R32           R32          R32          R32          R32
Refrigerator oil                    polyvinyl     polyvinyl     polyvinyl    polyvinyl    polyvinyl      polyol
                                       ether         ether         ether        ether        ether        ester
Added amount of acid scavenger       0.3 WtO       0.3 wto       1.0 Wt 0     2.0 wto      5.0 wto      1.0 Wt%
Detected amount of fluorine from
                                     5.2 WtO      16.7 Wt       4.8 Wt        2.3 wtO      0.8 wtO     5.3 wt%
expansion valve
Expansion valve
satisfactory/unsatisfactory        satisfactory unsatisfactory satisfactory satisfactory satisfactory satisfactory
determination
[0067]       According to Table 1, in a refrigeration apparatus using R32 as the refrigerant,
expansion valve corrosion was suppressed when the amount of acid scavenger added in the
refrigerator oil was 1.0 wt% or more.
[0068]       In addition, an experiment was also performed to compare solubility between the
polyvinyl ether oil and the R32 refrigerant. As a result, it was confirmed that solubility with
R32 improved in accordance with a lower molecular weight of the side chain of the polyvinyl
ether. As a specific example, in the chemical structural formula of the polyvinyl ether shown
below, an ethyl group (C 2H 5 ) is connected to a side chain oxygen atom.

                                                  14
[0069]    <Chemical Structure 1 >
                        C, 2 H5
[0070]    On the other hand, in the chemical structural formula of the polyvinyl ether shown
below, a methyl group (CH 3) is connected to a side chain oxygen atom.
[0071]    <Chemical Structure 2>
[0072]    Regarding the above two types of polyvinyl ethers, it was confirmed that a polyvinyl
ether having a methyl group is more soluble with the R32 refrigerant than is a polyvinyl ether
having an ethyl group. In FIG. 2, the bottom curve L2 moves lower as the solubility between
the refrigerator oil and the R32 refrigerant increases. Therefore, during startup of the air
conditioning apparatus 1, the mixture of the refrigerator oil and the R32 refrigerant separates
less readily into two layers with higher solubility between the refrigerator oil and the R32
refrigerant. Therefore, regarding the above two types of a polyvinyl ether, refrigerator oil
containing a polyvinyl ether having a methyl group separates less readily into two layers with
the R32 refrigerant than that containing a polyvinyl ether having an ethyl group. The ISO
viscosity grade of the polyvinyl ether oil used in the experiment is VG68.

                                                  15
[0073]    <Modifications>
          An embodiment and examples of the present invention were described above, but the
specific configuration of the present invention can be varied within a range that does not deviate
from the scope of the present invention. Below are descriptions of modifications that can be
applied to the embodiment of the present invention.
[0074]    (1) Modification A
          In the present embodiment, the refrigerator oil contains 1.0 wt% or more of an acid
scavenger. However, the refrigerator oil preferably contains 5.0 wt% or less of an acid
scavenger, and more preferably contains 3.0 wt% or less of an acid scavenger.
[0075]    (2) Modification B
          In the present embodiment, the refrigerator oil contains an extreme pressure agent and
an antioxidant. However, the refrigerator oil may contain either an extreme pressure agent alone
or an antioxidant alone, and the refrigerator oil may also exclude both the extreme pressure
agent and the antioxidant.
[0076]    (3) Modification C
          In the examples of the present embodiment, refrigerator oil tests were performed using
a brass expansion valve as the expansion valve of the expansion mechanism, but the refrigerator
oil tests may be performed using a stainless steel expansion valve. As shall be apparent,
expansion valve corrosion is effectively suppressed in this case as well.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0077]    The refrigeration apparatus according to the present invention can suppress refrigerator
oil deterioration and expansion valve corrosion.

                                              16
REFERENCE SIGNS LIST
[0078]
1      Air-conditioning apparatus (refrigeration apparatus)
2      Compressor
4      Outdoor heat exchanger (condenser, evaporator)
5      Expansion mechanism
6      Indoor heat exchanger (evaporator, condenser)
CITATION LIST
PATENT LITERATURE
[0079] <Patent Literature 1 >Japanese Laid-open Patent Application No. 2001-226690

                                                   17
CLAIMS
1.    A refrigeration apparatus comprising:
       a compressor;
       a condenser;
       an expansion mechanism; and
       an evaporator, wherein refrigerant containing R32 and refrigerator oil is used for
lubricating the compressor, the refrigerator oil including 1.0 to 5.0 wt% acid scavenger, and the
refrigerant including at least 60 wt% of R32.
2.     The refrigeration apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
      the acid scavenger added in an amount of 2.0 to 5.0 wt% is blended with the refrigerator
oil.
3.     The refrigeration apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
      the expansion mechanism has an expansion valve; and
       fluorine, which is a decomposition product of the refrigerant adhering to the expansion
valve, is detected in an amount of 6.0 wt% or less.
4.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein
       an extreme pressure agent is further blended with the refrigerator oil.
5.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
       an antioxidant is further blended with the refrigerator oil.
6.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein
      the refrigerator oil contains polyvinyl ether oil.
7.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein
      the refrigerator oil contains polyol ester oil.
8.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims I to 7, wherein
      the refrigerant contains R32 alone.
9.     The refrigeration apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
      the refrigerator oil is one in which there is no separation in a mixture with the refrigerant
during startup.

                                                  18
10.    The refrigeration apparatus according to claim 9, wherein
       an oil concentration, which is a concentration of the refrigerator oil contained in the
mixture, exhibits a minimum value during startup in a process during which a temperature of the
mixture rises; and
       a temperature at which separation occurs in the mixture for which the oil concentration is
the minimum value is -35'C or greater, and is also less than a temperature of the mixture when
the oil concentration is the minimum value.
                                      Daikin Industries, Ltd.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
