                                         ABSTRACT
The method and system described herein relate to stimulating nerve tissue using a pulse
generator, A stimulus is created that comprises a signal that is produced from a frequency
spectrum having a power spectral density per unit of bandwidth proportional to 1/fP, wherein
P is excludes 0. The stimulus is provided from the pulse generator to at least one stimulation
lead; and applied to nerve tissue via one or several electrodes.

WO 2012/030831                 PCT/US2011/049749
               3/8
               Fr
                o   ne v tafrx
                  FIG 3A
                  FIG. 3B

     USE OF A NEW STI MULATI ON DESIGN TO TREAT NEUROLOGI CAL DISORDER
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
           The present invention relates to a method which can be utilized to treat
   neurological conditions and/or disorders.      More particularly, and not by way of
 5 limitation, the present invention is directed to a method for using 1/f       noise to
   treat neurological conditions and/or disorders.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Different firing modes or frequencies occur in the brain and/or other
   neuronal tissue, for example tonic firing and burst firing (irregular or regular
10 burst firing).     Such firing modes can be utilized for normal processing of
   information, however, alteration of the firing modes, may also lead to pathology.
            For   example,   certain   neurological  conditions   are   associated   with
   hyperactivity of the brain and can be traced to a rhythmic burst firing or high
   frequency tonic firing or hypersynchronous firing (e.g.,          tinnitus, pain,  and
15 epilepsy). Other conditions can be associated with an arrhythmic burst firing or a
   dysynchronous firing, for example, movement disorders, hallucinations, persistent
   vegetative state (PVS),     multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS), or hypofunctioning
   for example, hypoesthesia, depression, hearing loss, visual loss, dysthymia,
   chronic fatigue etc.
20          During the past decade, neuromodulation systems have been used to
   modulate various areas of the brain, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves (See, for
   example, U.S. Patent Nos. 6,671,555; 6,690,974). These types of systems utilize
   tonic forms of electrical stimulation.        Recently burst transcranial magnetic
   stimulation (TMS) at theta frequencies has been developed (Huang et al., 2005).
25 Theta burst TMS has been shown to produce an effect on motor and visual
   cortex by suppressing excitatory circuits after a short application period of only
   20-190 s (Huang et al., 2005; Di Lazzaro et al., 2005; Franca et al., 2006).
                                              1

           Typically, the signals generated by the neuromodulation devices are not
   physiological similar to the endogenous electrical signals generated by the brain
   and the exogenous electrical signals generated by the neuromodulation devices
   typically result in epileptic events as well as the brain habituates to these
 5 electrical signals in time. The inventor is the first to describe a neuromodulation
   design using parameters in which a 1/fP noise is used to achieve stimulation of
   the tissue close to physiological levels to treat a neurological condition.
                            BRI EF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The method and system described herein relate to stimulating nerve tissue
10 to treat a neurological disease and/or condition.        Using a pulse generator, a
   stimulus is created that comprises a signal that is produced from a frequency
   spectrum having a power spectral density per unit of bandwidth proportional to
   1/fs, wherein     P excludes  0.  P can be, for example, any real, natural, integer,
   rational, irrational, complex or fluctuating number. For example,     P=    1 or P= 2.
15 The stimulus is provided from the pulse generator to at least one stimulation
   lead; and applied to nerve tissue of the patient via one or several electrodes of
   the at least one stimulation lead.
           Yet further, the stimulus can be combined with at least one pulse stimulus
   repeated in a tonic manner or a burst stimulus that comprises a plurality of
20 groups of spike pulses.
           Still further, the stimulus can be modulated at any specific frequency,
   either by selective power increase, envelope modulation or adding more tonic or
   burst stimuli of this frequency.
           A first stimulation parameter that defines a frequency having a lower
25 bound of a frequency spectrum and a second stimulation that defines a
   frequency having an upper bound of a frequency spectrum can be stored in a
   controller or pulse generator and such controller can be used to generate a
   stimulus that comprises a frequency spectrum between the first and second
   stimulation parameters such that the frequency and power of the frequency
30 spectrum are inversely proportional.
                                              2

                          BRI EF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAW NGS
           In the following section, the invention will be described with reference to
   exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures, in which:
           FIGS. 1A-1J illustrate example electrical stimulation leads that may be
 5 used to electrically stimulate neuronal tissue.
           FIG. 2 depicts an implantable pulse generator that may be programmed to
   generate stimulation according to one representative embodiment.
           FIGS 3A and 3B illustrate pink noise or 1/f noise.       FIG. 3A shows an
   exemplary pink noise spectrum.          FIG. 3B shows an exemplary pink noise
10 spectrum generated by a power source, for example an external or implantable
   generator
           FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate red, brown or Brownian noise or 1/f2 noise.
   FIG. 4A shows an exemplary red or Brown(ian) noise spectrum.         FIG. 4B shows
   an exemplary spectrum generated by a power source, for example an external or
15 implantable generator.
           FIGS. 5A-5B illustrate exemplary combinations of 1/f@ noise.        FIG. 5A
   shows 1/fp noise modulated at alpha frequencies and FIG 5B at 1/fp noise
   modulated at beta frequencies.
           FIG. 6 depicts a stimulation system that can measure or detect given
20 neuronal signals that can be used to modulate the 1/fp noise stimulation
   according to one representative embodiment.
           FIG. 7 illustrates a 1/fP spectrum at rest for normal and tinnitus patients.
   p  is 2.2 for healthy controls, 1.5 for noise-like tinnitus and 1.8 for pure tone
   tinnitus.
25         FIG. 8 depicts a stimulation system that can sense and/or monitor sleep
   stage that can be used to alter therapy.
           FIG. 9 shows modules within the memory of FIG. 8.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The following section more generally describes an example of a procedure
30 for treatment using a 1/fP noise such as pink noise, red or brown noise or black
                                              3

   noise to optimize the following parameters; a set and/or range of stimulation
   protocols that can most completely eliminate neurological disease/disorder, a set
   and/or range of stimulation protocols that requires the lowest voltage, and a
   protocol that maintains treatment efficacy over long periods of time, for example,
 5 the protocol can prevent habituation or adaptation and a protocol that is anti
   epileptic. Still further, the generated 1/f noise signal can be filtered, combined,
   or otherwise processed, for example, whereby the generated 1/fp noise is utilized
   as a background signal noise over another signal with a spectral peak at a
   selected frequency.     For example, an alpha peak, beta peak, delta peak and/or
10 theta peak can be added to the 1/f0 noise. The peaks can be generated using
   typical known frequencies or the peaks can be individualized for each patient.
   Yet further, the 1/f0 noise can be combined with standard tonic and/or burst
   stimulation   to   further   enhance  the   optimization  or   prevent   habituation.
   Combinations of tonic and/or burst stimulation are known in the art, for example,
15 U.S. Patent No. 7,734,340, issued June 8, 2010 and U.S. Application No.
   12/109,098, filed April 24, 2008, which are incorporated by reference in their
   entirety.
          The predetermined site for stimulation can include, for example, peripheral
   neuronal tissue and/or central neuronal tissue.      Peripheral neuronal tissue can
20 include a nerve root or root ganglion or any peripheral neuronal tissue associated
   with a given dermatome or any neuronal tissue that lies outside the brain,
   brainstem or spinal cord.
   I.     1/f Noise
          A noise signal can be described as a signal that is generated according to
25 a random process. In practice, various algorithms (e.g., in software executed on
   a processor) are employed to simulate a given random process to generate a
   "pseudo-random" signal where the generated pseudo-random signal possesses
   similar characteristics with signals corresponding to a corresponding random
   process.    The characteristics of a particular noise signal depend upon the
30 underlying process generating the noise signal. For example, the power spectral
                                             4

   density or power distribution in the frequency domain may be employed to
   characterize the random process and, hence, also characterize a corresponding
   time-domain noise signal.      The classification of the power spectral density of a
   noise signal may be described in reference to color or color terminology with
 5 different types of power spectral densities named after different colors.
           According to these conventions, the power spectral density is defined as
   being inversely proportional to fP, where f represents frequency and        P is a value
   selected to characterize the noise signal. The value       P can  be for example, any
   real, natural, integer, rational, irrational or complex number.       For example, the
10 spectral density for white noise is flat (P=O), for pink noise or flicker noise P=1
   and for Brownian or red noise    P =2 and   black noise is  P >2.  Suitable non-integer
   P values   about 1 include 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5, or any
   values there between for some embodiments.           Likewise, suitable non-integer     P
   values about 2 can include 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 or any
15 value there between for some embodiments.
           Abnormal electrical and/or neural activity is associated with different
   diseases and disorders in the central and peripheral nervous systems.                  In
   addition to a drug regimen or surgical intervention, potential treatments for such
   diseases and disorders include the implantation of a medical device (for example,
20 an implantable pulse generator (IPG)) in a patient for electrical stimulation of the
   patient's body tissue.       In  particular, an   implantable medical      device may
   electrically stimulate a target neuronal tissue location by the selective application
   of controlled electrical input signals to one or more electrodes coupled to or
   placed in proximity to the patient's neuronal tissue.      Such electrical input signals
25 may be applied to the patient's neuronal tissue in order to treat a neurological
   disease, condition, or disorder.
           The response of nonlinear systems to a weak input signal may be
   optimized by combining the input signal with a non-negligible level of noise or as
   known in the art as stochastic resonance. For a system to exhibit stochastic
30 resonance there needs to be a threshold that must be exceeded in order to
   activate the system.    When the input signal is not strong enough to exceed the
                                               5

   threshold, small amounts of noise added either to the system or the signal may
   occasionally suffice to trigger activation.    Typically this type of phenomenon is
   associated with white noise.
           Over time, a repetitive electrical stimulation       signal, such    as typical
 5 electrical stimulation performed today, that is dissimilar to the brain's own
   naturally-occurring signals may become less effective as the brain "filters out" or
   "ignores" the signal.      Hence, a problem with standard electrical stimulation
   parameters     used   today    is habituation   because    the  electrical  stimulation
   parameters result in a repetitive electrical signal and thus, the brain habituates to
10 the signal or adapts.     It is believed that naturally-occurring signals within the
   human     brain closely resemble 1/fP noise.      Because of this, the efficacy of
   electrical stimulation signals applied to neuronal tissue is improved by making
   those signals comport as closely as possible to the brain's own signals. Such a
   signal may be less likely to lose effectiveness over time. One way to comport an
15 electrical stimulation signal to resemble the brain's own signals is to utilize a
   stimulation paradigm that resembles that of the brain's normal signals, for
   example convert the pink noise spectrum into electrical stimulation signals that
   can be applied to the desired neuronal tissue at a desired pattern, frequency,
   amplitude such that it maintains parameters associated with 1/fP noise spectrum.
20 To further modulate the 1/fP noise stimulation paradigm,            add specific peak
   frequencies to the 1/fP noise stimulation paradigm that are known or associated
   with given brain areas, for example, add an alpha frequency peak to stimulate
   primary and secondary cortical areas; add a beta frequency peak to stimulate
   association cortical areas, such as frontal cortex; add a theta frequency peak to
25 stimulate the cingulate, hippocampus, amygdala; add a delta frequency peak to
   stimulate     the    brainstem,     ventral   tegmental      area    (VTA),     nucleus
   accumbens/ventral medial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC).           Yet further, black noise
   can be used to stimulate the brainstem and/or the reward system.                 These
   additional peak frequencies that are added to the 1/fP noise stimulation paradigm
30 can be obtained from the individual by EEG or MEG measurements or any other
   measurement to obtain the individual peak frequency or the frequencies can be
                                               6

   obtained from a database, for example a database containing a list of given
   frequencies and spectral structures for a brain structure or brain area.        The
   frequency for each brain area, for example, each Brodmann area can be easily
   calculated by defining a Brodmann area in source space and performing a
 5 spectral analysis for that area using any software (i.e., sLORETA) to perform
   source analysis.
          Still further, the 1/f/ noise stimulation paradigm can be modified by using
   multiple poles or electrodes, for example, the stimulation paradigm is either
   sequentially cycled or randomly cycles through the poles or electrodes upon the
10 stimulation lead.
          The 1/f/ noise can also be selected to specifically activate or inactivate a
   brain area or brain network, i.e., it can be chosen so as to not be normalizing,
   but to be non-physiological as to compensate for overactivity or hypoactivity,
   followed    at a later stage with      normal   physiological 1/f/ noise stimulation
15 parameters.     For example during sleep, changing the 1/f/ noise during sleep can
   improve memory storage or prevent storage of memories, i.e., to prevent or treat
   posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
   II.    Patient Selection
          Subjects to be treated according to some representative embodiments can
20 be selected, identified and/or diagnosed based upon the accumulation of
   physical, chemical, and historical behavioral data on each patient. One of skill in
   the art is able to perform the appropriate examinations to accumulate such data.
   One type of examination can include neurological examinations, which can
   include mental       status evaluations, which can further include a psychiatric
25 assessment.      Other types of assessments for movement disorders may include
   such assessments for example using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
   (UPDRS).      Still further, other types of examinations can include, but are not
   limited to, motor examination, cranial nerve examination, cognitive assessment
   and neuropsychological tests (i.e., Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory,
30 Beck Depression Inventory, or Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression).          Other
                                              7

   types of assessment for tinnitus, for example, can include but are not limited to
   Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) and Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI).      In addition
   to neurological testing, routine hematological and/or biochemistry testing may
   also be performed.
 5          In addition to the above examinations, imaging techniques can be used to
   determine normal and abnormal brain function that can result in disorders. Thus,
   once the patient is identified from the above clinical examinations, imaging
   techniques can be further utilized to provide the region of interest in which the
   electrodes are to be implanted.      Functional brain imaging allows for localization
10 of specific normal and abnormal functioning of the nervous system. This includes
   electrical       methods       such      as      electroencephalography       (EEG),
   magnetoencephalography (MEG), single photon emission computed tomography
   (SPECT), as well as metabolic and blood flow studies such as functional magnetic
   resonance imaging (fMRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) which can
15 be utilized to localize brain function and dysfunction.
   III.     Implantation of Stimulation Leads
           One or more stimulation leads 100, as shown in FIGS. 1A-1J are implanted
   such that one or more stimulation electrodes 102 of each stimulation lead 200
   are positioned or disposed near, adjacent to, directly on or onto, proximate to,
20 directly in or into or within the target tissue or predetermined site.    The leads
   shown in FIG. 1 are exemplary of many commercially available leads, such as
   deep brain      leads, percutaneous leads, paddle leads, etc.          Examples of
   commercially available stimulation leads includes a percutaneous OCTRODE@
   lead or laminotomy or paddle leads or paddle structures such as PENTA@ lead or
25 LAMITRODE 44@ lead all manufactured by Advanced Neuromodulation Systems,
   Inc.    For the purposes described herein and as those skilled in the art will
   recognize, when an embedded stimulation system, such as the Bion@, is used, it
   is positioned similar to positioning the lead 100.
           Techniques for implanting stimulation electrodes are well known by those
30 of skill in the art and may be positioned in various body tissues and in contact
                                              8

   with    various    tissue   layers;  for  example,     deep    brain,  cortical,  subdural,
   subarachnoid,         epidural,   cutaneous,    transcutaneous        and    subcutaneous
   implantation is employed in some embodiments.
            A.           Brain
 5          Central neuronal tissue includes brain tissue, spinal tissue or brainstem
   tissue.    Brain tissue can include the frontal lobe, the occipital lobe, the parietal
   lobe, the temporal lobe, the cerebellum, or the brain stem.               More specifically,
   brain tissue can include subcortical targets, for example, thalamus/sub-thalamus
   (i.e., thalamic nuclei, medial and lateral geniculate body, intralaminar nuclei,
10 nucleus reticularis, pulvinar, subthalamic nuclei (STN), etc) basal ganglia (i.e.,
   putamen,       caudate      nucleus,   globus    pallidus),    hippocampus,      amygdala,
   hypothalamus, epithalamus, mammilary bodies, ventral tegmental area (VTA),
   substantia nigra, corpus callosum, fornix, internal capsula, anterior and posterior
   commissural, cerebral peduncles etc. Brain tissue also includes cerebellum,
15 cerebellar peduncles, and cerebeller nuclei such as fastigial nucleus, globose
   nucleus, dentate nucleus, emboliform nucleus.            Still further, in addition to the
   above mentioned subcortical targets, brain tissue also includes cortical targets,
   for example, auditory cortex, prefrontal cortex, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex,
   the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, the cingulate cortex, subcallosal area, anterior
20 cingulate cortex, the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex, the motor cortex and
   the somatosensory cortex. The somatosensory cortex comprises the primary, the
   secondary somatosensory cortex, and the somatosensory association complex.
   Still further, the somatosensory cortex also includes Brodmann areas 1, 2, 3, 5,
   and 7. Yet further, brain tissue can include various Brodmann areas for example,
25 but not limited to Brodmann area 9, Brodmann area 10, Brodmann area 24,
   Brodmann area 25, Brodmann area 32, Brodmann area 39, Brodmann area 41,
   Brodmann area 42, and Brodmann area 46.
            While not being bound by the description of a particular procedure,
   patients who are to have an electrical stimulation lead or electrode implanted into
30 the brain for deep brain stimulation, generally, first have a stereotactic head
                                                 9

   frame, such as the Leksell, CRW, or Compass, mounted to the patient's skull by
   fixed screws.      Subsequent to the mounting of the frame, the patient typically
   undergoes a series of magnetic resonance imaging sessions, during which a
   series of two dimensional slice images of the patient's brain are built up into a
 5 quasi- three dimensional map in virtual space. This map is then correlated to the
   three dimensional stereotactic frame of reference in the real surgical field.       In
   order to align these two coordinate frames, both the instruments and the patient
   must be situated in correspondence to the virtual map.       The current way to do
   this is to rigidly mount the head frame to the surgical table. Subsequently, a
10 series of reference points are established to relative aspects of the frame and
   patient's skull, so that either a person or a computer software system can adjust
   and calculate the correlation between the real world of the patient's head and the
   virtual space model of the patient MRI scans. The surgeon is able to target any
   region within the stereotactic space of the brain with precision (e.g., within 1
15 mm).     Initial anatomical target localization is achieved either directly using the
   MRI images or functional imaging (PET or SPECT scan, fMRI, MSI), or indirectly
   using interactive anatomical atlas programs that map the atlas image onto the
   stereotactic image of the brain. As is described in greater detail elsewhere in this
   application, the anatomical targets or predetermined site may be stimulated
20 directly or affected through stimulation in another region of the brain.
           In addition to deep brain stimulation, cortical stimulation can also be used
   to stimulate various brain tissues.      Any of the stimulation leads illustrated in
   FIGS. 1A-1J can be used for cortical stimulation, as well as any other cortical
   electrode or electrode array.     For implanting conventional cortical electrodes, it
25 typically requires a craniotomy under general anesthesia to remove a relatively
   large (e.g., thumbnail-sized or larger) window in the skull.       A pilot hole (e.g.,
   4mm or smaller) can be formed through at least part of the thickness of the
   patient's    skull  adjacent  a  selected    or  predetermined    site.    In  certain
   embodiments, the pilot hole can be used as a monitoring site.
30         The location of the pilot hole (and, ultimately the electrode received
   therein) can be selected in a variety of fashions, for example, the physician may
                                              10

   use anatomical landmarks, e.g., cranial landmarks such as the bregma or the
   sagittal suture, to guide placement and orientation of the pilot hole or the
   physician may use a surgical navigation system. Navigation systems may employ
   real-time imaging and/or proximity detection to guide a physician in placing the
 5 pilot hole and in placing the electrode in the pilot hole. In some systems, fiducials
   are positioned on the patient's scalp or skull prior to imaging and those fiducials
   are used as reference points in subsequent implantation. In other systems, real
   time MRI or the like may be employed instead of or in conjunction with such
   fiducials. A number of suitable navigation systems are commercially available,
10 such as the STEALTHSTATION TREON TGS sold by Medtronic Surgical Navigation
   Technologies of Louisville, Colo., U.S.
           Once the pilot hole is formed, the threaded stimulation lead may be
   advanced along the pilot hole until the contact surface electrically contacts a
   desired portion of the patient's brain. If the stimulation lead is intended to be
15 positioned epidurally, this may comprise relatively atraumatically contacting the
   dura mater; if the electrode is to contact a site on the cerebral cortex, the
   electrode will be advanced to extend through the dura mater.          Thus, the lead
   may be placed epidurally or subdurally for cortical stimulation.
           B.         Spinal Cord and/or Peripheral Nerves
20         Peripheral nerves can include, but are not limited to olfactory nerve, optic
   nerve, oculomotor nerve, trochlear nerve, trigeminal nerve, abducens nerve,
   facial nerve, vestibulocochlear (auditory) nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, vagal
   nerve, accessory nerve, hypoglossal nerve, occipital nerve (e.g., suboccipital
   nerve, the greater occipital nerve, the lesser occipital nerve), the greater
25 auricular nerve, the lesser auricular nerve, the phrenic nerve, brachial plexus,
   radial axillary nerves, musculocutaneous nerves, radial nerves, ulnar nerves,
   median nerves, intercostal nerves, lumbosacral plexus, sciatic nerves, common
   peroneal nerve, tibial nerves, sural nerves, femoral nerves, gluteal nerves,
   thoracic spinal nerves, obturator nerves, digital nerves, pudendal nerves, plantar
30 nerves,    saphenous    nerves,  ilioinguinal nerves,    gentofemoral   nerves,  and
                                              11

   iliohypogastric nerves. Furthermore, peripheral neuronal tissue can include but is
   not limited to peripheral nervous tissue associated with a dermatome.
          Spinal tissue can include the ascending and descending tracts of the spinal
   cord,  more specifically, the ascending tracts of that comprise intralaminar
 5 neurons or the dorsal column.          For example, the spinal tissue can include
   neuronal tissue associated with any of the cervical vertebral segments (C1,        C2,
   C3, C4, C5, C6, C7 and C8) and/or any tissue associated with any of the thoracic
   vertebral segments (T1, T2, T3, T4, T5, T6, T7, T8, T9, T10, T11, T12) and/or
   any tissue associated with any of the lumbar vertebral segments (L1, L2, L3, L4.
10 L5, L6) and/or any tissue associated with the sacral vertebral segments (S1, S2,
   S3, S4, S5).   More specifically, the spinal tissue is the dorsal column of the spinal
   cord.     The brainstem tissue can include the medulla oblongata, pons or
   mesencephalon, more particular the posterior pons or posterior mesencephalon,
   Lushka's foramen, and ventrolateral part of the medulla oblongata.
15         In   other  embodiments,      the   stimulation    leads   are  positioned  in
   communication with the neuronal tissue of the spinal cord, more specifically, the
   dorsal column of the spinal cord.         For example, stimulation electrodes are
   commonly positioned external to the dura layer surrounding the spinal cord.
   Stimulation on the surface of the cord is also contemplated, for example,
20 stimulation may be applied to the spinal cord tissue as well as to the nerve root
   entry zone. Stimulation electrodes may be positioned in various body tissues and
   in contact with various tissue layers; for example, subdural,           subarachnoid,
   epidural, and cutaneous, and/or subcutaneous implantation is employed in some
   embodiments.
25        Spinal cord stimulation can be accomplished utilizing either percutaneous
   leads and/or laminotomy type leads that comprise a paddle. Percutaneous leads
   commonly have two or more equally-spaced electrodes which are placed above
   the dura layer through the use of a Touhy-like needle. For insertion, the Touhy
   like needle is passed through the skin between desired vertebrae to open above
30 the dura layer.
                                              12

           In contrast to the percutaneous leads, laminotomy leads have a paddle
   configuration and typically possess a plurality of electrodes (for example, two,
   four, eight, sixteen or twenty) arranged in one or more columns.            Implanted
   laminotomy leads are commonly transversely centered over the physiological
 5 midline of a patient. In such position, multiple columns of electrodes are well
   suited to address both unilateral and bilateral pain, where electrical energy may
   be administered using either column independently (on either side of the midline)
   or administered using both columns to create an electric field which traverses the
   midline. A multi-column laminotomy lead enables reliable positioning of a plurality
10 of electrodes, and in particular, a plurality of electrode columns that do not
   readily deviate from an initial implantation position.
           Laminotomy leads require a surgical procedure for implantation. The
   surgical procedure, or partial laminectomy, requires the resection and removal of
   certain vertebral tissue to allow both access to the dura and proper positioning of
15 a laminotomy lead. The laminotomy lead offers a more stable platform, which is
   further capable of being sutured in place that tends to migrate less in the
   operating environment of the human          body.    Depending on the position of
   insertion, however, access to the dura may only require a partial removal of the
   ligamentum flavum at the insertion site. In some embodiments, two or more
20 laminotomy leads may be positioned within the epidural space, and the leads
   may assume any relative position to one another.
           In   certain  embodiments,     the    stimulation   leads   may    be  placed
   subcutaneously on the patient's head.        For example, one or more stimulation
   leads can be implanted subcutaneously such that one or more stimulation
25 electrodes are positioned in communication with a dermatome area, for example
   (C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, and C8), cervical nerve roots (e.g., C1, C2, C3, C4,
   C5, C6, C7 and C8) cranial nerves (e.g., olfactory nerve, optic, nerve, oculomotor
   nerve,    trochlear  nerve,   trigeminal   nerve,   abducent    nerve,  facial nerve,
   vestibulocochlear nerve, glossopharyngeal nerve, vagal nerve, accessory nerve,
30 and hypoglossal nerve) and/or occipital area            For example, one or more
   stimulation electrodes are positioned in the C2 dermatome area/C3 dermatome
                                             13

   area, subcutaneously, but superior to the galea. Within certain areas of the C2
   dermatome area or occipital or occiput area, there is little or no muscle, this area
   primarily consists of fat, fascia, perostium, and neurovascular structures (e.g.,
   galea).     More specifically, the electrode can be implanted in a subcutaneous
 5 fashion such that the electrode is positioned below the skin, above the bone on
   the back of the head or superior to the periosteum. On the back of the head, the
   probe is positioned in the C2 dermatome area or positioned at the back of the
   patient's head at about the level of the ear.
           C           Brainstem Stimulation
10         Implantation      of   a  stimulation  lead   in   communication   with    the
   predetermined brainstem area can be accomplished via a variety of surgical
   techniques that are well known to those of skill in the art.        For example, an
   electrical stimulation lead can be implanted on, in, or near the brainstem by
   accessing the brain tissue through a percutaneous route, an open craniotomy, or
15 a burr hole. Where a burr hole is the means of accessing the brainstem, for
   example, stereotactic equipment suitable to aid in placement of an electrical
   stimulation lead on, in, or near the brainstem may be positioned around the
   head.      Another    alternative technique can     include, a modified    midline or
   retrosigmoid posterior fossa technique.
20         In certain embodiments, electrical stimulation lead is located at least
   partially within or below the dura mater adjacent the brainstem.      Alternatively, a
   stimulation     lead can     be placed in   communication with   the   predetermined
   brainstem area by threading the stimulation lead up the spinal cord column, as
   described above, which is incorporated herein.
25         Still further, a predetermined brainstem area can be indirectly stimulated
   by implanting a stimulation lead in communication with a cranial nerve (e.g.,
   olfactory nerve, optic, nerve, oculomotor nerve, trochlear nerve, trigeminal
   nerve, abducent nerve, facial nerve, vestibulocochlear nerve, glossopharyngeal
   nerve, vagal nerve, accessory nerve, and the hypoglossal nerve) as well as high
30 cervical nerves (cervical nerves have anastomoses with lower cranial nerves)
                                               14

   such that stimulation of a cranial nerve indirectly stimulates the predetermined
   brainstem tissue. Such techniques are further described in US Patent Nos.
   6,721,603; 6,622,047; and 5,335,657 each of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
 5 IV.    Generation of Stimulation Parameters and Modifications thereof
          Conventional neuromodulation devices can be modified to apply a 1/fp
   noise stimulation, or 1/f/ noise stimulation in combination with individual peak
   frequencies (e.g., alpha, beta, theta and delta) or combination of 1/fp noise
   stimulation combined with burst or tonic stimulation to nerve tissue of a patient
10 by modifying the software instructions and/or stimulation parameters stored in
   the devices. Specifically, conventional neuromodulation devices typically include
   a microprocessor and a pulse generation module. The pulse generation module
   generates the electrical pulses according to a defined pulse width and pulse
   amplitude   and applies the electrical    pulses to defined electrodes through
15 switching circuitry and the wires of a stimulation lead.      The microprocessor
   controls the operations of the pulse generation module according to software
   instructions stored in the device and accompanying stimulation parameters.
   Examples of commercially available neuromodulation         devices that   can   be
   modified according to some embodiments include the EON@ or EON mini @,
20 manufactured by St. Jude Medical. Other neuromodulation devices that may be
   modified can include, LIBRA@ or BRIO@ manufactured by St. Jude Medical.
          These neuromodulation devices can be adapted by modifying the software
   instructions provided within the neuromodulation devices used to control the
   operations of the devices. In some embodiments, software is provided within the
25 neuromodulation device to retrieve or generate a stream of digital values that
   define a waveform according to the desired power spectral density. This stream
   of values is then employed to control the amplitude of successive stimulation
   pulses generated by the neurostimulation device.     The software may include a
   pseudo-random number generator according to known algorithms to generate
30 the stream of digital values. Alternatively, one or more streams of digital values
                                           15

   having the desired power spectral density may be generated offline and stored in
   memory of the neuromodulation device (in a compressed or other suitable
   format).    The software of the neuromodulation device may retrieve the values
   from    memory for     control of the amplitude of the output           pulses of the
 5 neuromodulation        device.       Alternatively,    an     external     conventional
   neuromodulation      devices can be used (for example, the DS8000TM digital
   stimulator available from World Precision Instruments) to generate the desired
   electrical stimulation. For example, a custom waveform may be generated offline
   on a personal computer and imported into the digital stimulator for pulse
10 generation.    Signal parameters may be inputted, such as 1/fP noise spectrum, for
   example FIG. 3A or FIG. 4A, into suitable waveform generating software to
   generate the stream of digital values.           Alternatively, depending    upon the
   capabilities of the external digital stimulator, the stream of digital values may be
   calculated on board the processor of the external digital stimulator.
15         FIG. 2 depicts an exemplary neuromodulation device that can be used to
   provide the desired stimulation.      Signal parameters are inputted, such as 1/fP
   noise spectrum, for example FIG. 3A or FIG. 4A, into the software or memory
   210 and the desired wave pattern or signals are generated using microprocessor
   220.    A standard digital-to-analog converter 230 receives the calculated digital
20 signals and generates analog output pulses corresponding to the values of the
   digital signals.    The generated output pulses may be outputted from the
   neuromodulation device through an output capacitor.            Optionally, any suitable
   filter 240 can be used to smooth or shape the signals; however, unsmoothed or
   unfiltered signals can be transmitted to the switching circuitry 250 which provides
25 the signals to the electrodes 100 thereby stimulating the neuronal tissue using
   the desired 1/f0 noise stimulation pattern.    As an example, the stimulator design
   disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,715,912 may be employed to generate stimulation
   pulses according to the desired stimulation pattern.       FIGS. 3B and 4B illustrate
   exemplary waveforms generated by external generators and provided to the
30 electrodes to stimulate neuronal tissue with the 1/f0 noise stimulation pattern.
                                             16

           In addition to providing a stimulation waveform similar to that of 1/fP
   noise spectrum;      it may   be desirable to modify the       1/f/ noise waveform
   stimulation   pattern.     Such  modifications can   utilize the addition   of peak
   frequencies, such as the addition of an alpha, beta, theta, and/or delta peaks to
 5 the 1/fP noise spectrum waveform, see for example, FIGS. 5A and 5B.              Such
   frequency peaks can be obtained by using standard peaks or individualizing the
   frequency peaks. Such information can be communicated to the microprocessor
   220 via the software component 210.            Thus, the data communicated can
   comprise standard frequency peaks or comprise individualized frequency peaks or
10 patient specific. The patient specific frequency peaks can be obtained off-line or
   in real time or on-line, for example prior to implantation or at any time point after
   implantation, for example, during the initial programming of the IPG.             Any
   suitable signal processing technique may be employed to add the appropriate
   spectral peaks. For example, a suitable filter may be applied to the noise signal.
15 Alternatively, a separate signal may be generated with a spectral peak about the
   desired frequency and the separate signal may be added to or superimposed on
   the noise signal.
           With reference to FIG. 6, with electrodes disposed near, adjacent to,
   directly next to or within the target neuronal tissue, for example, brain tissue,
20 some representative embodiments utilize the detection and analysis of neuronal
   activity, such as EEG measurements. Specifically, terminals of the lead, such as
   an EEG lead, may be coupled using respective conductors 601 to external
   controller that   contains suitable circuitry to analyze neuronal       activity, for
   example, an EEG analyzer can be included in the external controller in which the
25 analyzer functions are adapted to receive EEG signals from the electrodes and
   process the EEG signals to identify frequency peaks, such as LORETA software
   can be used.      Further signal processing may occur on a suitable computer
   platform within the external controller using available signal processing.        The
   computer platform may include suitable signal processing algorithms (e.g., time
30 domain segmentation, FFT processing, windowing, logarithmic transforms, etc.).
   Further platforms or algorithms to modify the signals are included in the
                                             17

   modification     algorithms (e.g.,   envelope modification,     etc).    User interface
   software may be used to present the processed neuronal activity (i.e., specific
   peak frequency) and combine a specific peak frequency with the 1/fp noise
   stimulation waveform patterns to the transmitter 603 which then transmits, for
 5 example, via radio frequency to the IPG 604 which is adapted to provide the 1/fP
   noise stimulation      waveform    patterns with the peak frequency to          achieve
   stimulation of the target neuronal tissue via electrode 100.        This procedure can
   be performed on-line or off-line.        Additionally, IPG 604 preferably comprises
   circuitry    such   as an   analog-to-digital   (AD)   converter,   switching circuitry,
10 amplification circuitry, transmitters, and/or filtering circuitry.
           Still further, it may be desirable to utilize another implantable device that
   is capable of performing the functions of the external controller. Thus, those of
   skill in the art can modify an implantable device such that it is capable of
   detecting/sampling and processing of the signals representative of the neuronal
15 activity/EEG activity. Such a device may include a microprocessor that is capable
   of performing these activities as well as a transmitter such that the signals can be
   transmitted via radiofrequency to another implantable device, such as described
   above in FIG. 6 that is capable of generating the desired signal to the target
   tissue. Thus, an EEG lead is placed or positioned near the target brain tissue via
20 methods known to those of skill in the art.           The EEG lead detects neuronal
   activity which is relayed to the processor that possesses sufficient computational
   capacity to collect the information obtained from the EEG electrode, process it to
   obtain the respective frequency peak desired and/or modulate the frequency
   peaks and transmit the frequency to an RF transmitter that transmits the
25 respective information to microprocessor located in the stimulation IPG.
           Another means to modify the 1/f0 waveform stimulation pattern is to
   combine it with tonic stimulation or burst stimulation as described in U.S. Patent
   No. 7,734,340, issued June 8, 2010 and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/109,098,
   filed April 24, 2008, both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
30 Thus, a neuromodulation device can be implemented to apply either burst or
   tonic stimulation using a digital signal processor and one or several digital-to
                                              18

   analog converters. The burst stimulus and/or tonic stimulus waveform could be
   defined   in  memory    and  applied   to the   digital-to-analog   converter(s)  for
   application through electrodes of the medical lead.      The digital signal processor
   could scale the various portions of the waveform in amplitude and within the
 5 time domain (e.g., for the various intervals) according to the various burst and/or
   tonic parameters.   A doctor, the patient, or another user of stimulation source
   may directly or indirectly input stimulation parameters to specify or modify the
   nature of the stimulation provided.
          Thus, a microprocessor and suitable software instructions to implement
10 the appropriate system control can be used to control the burst and/or tonic
   stimulation in combination with the 1/fP stimulation.        The processor can be
   programmed to use "multi-stim set programs" which are known in the art.             A
   "stim set" refers to a set of parameters which define a pulse to be generated.
   For example, a stim set defines pulse amplitude, a pulse width, a pulse delay,
15 and an electrode combination. The pulse amplitude refers to the amplitude for a
   given pulse and the pulse width refers to the duration of the pulse.        The pulse
   delay represents an amount of delay to occur after the generation of the pulse
   (equivalently,  an amount of delay could be defined to occur before the
   generation of a pulse). The amount of delay represents an amount of time when
20 no pulse generation occurs. The electrode combination defines the polarities for
   each output which, thereby, controls how a pulse is applied via electrodes of a
   stimulation lead. Other pulse parameters could be defined for each stim set such
   as pulse type, repetition parameters, etc.       Still further, the 1/fP waveform
   stimulation pattern alone or in combination with either burst and/or tonic may be
25 implemented such that the stimulation occurs either sequentially, randomly or
   pseudo-sequentially over multiple poles or electrodes on the stimulation lead.
          In certain embodiments, the stimulation parameters may comprise a burst
   stimulation having a frequency in the range of about 1Hz to about 300 Hz in
   combination with a tonic stimulation having a frequency in the range of about
30 1Hz to about 300 Hz. Those of skill in the art realize that the frequencies can be
   altered depending upon the capabilities of the IPGs that are utilized.           More
                                            19

   particularly, the burst stimulation may be at about 6, 18, 40, 60, 80, 100, 150,
   200, 250 or 300 Hz consisting of 5 spikes with Ims pulse width, 1 ms interspike
   interval in combination with 1/f signals interspersed between or around the burst
   or prior to or after the burst or in any variation thereof depending upon the
 5 efficacy of treatment.        Still further, 1/f/ signals or stimulation paradigm as
   described herein may be used in combination with about 6, 18, 40, 60, 80, 100,
   150, 200, 250, 300 Hz tonic stimulation interspersed between or around the 1/fP
   signals or stimulation paradigm, or any variation thereof depending upon the
   efficacy of treatment and the capabilities of the I PG.
10         Still further, those of skill in the art recognize that burst firing refers to an
   action potential that is a burst of high frequency spikes (300 - 1000 Hz) (Beurrier
   et al., 1999).    Burst firing acts in a non-linear fashion with a summation effect of
   each spike and tonic firing refers to an action potential that occurs in a linear
   fashion.
15         Yet further, burst can refer to a period in a spike train that has a much
   higher discharge rate than surrounding periods in the spike train (N. Urbain et
   al., 2002). Thus, burst can refer to a plurality of groups of spike pulses. A burst
   is a train of action potentials that, possibly, occurs during a 'plateau' or 'active
   phase', followed by a period of relative quiescence called the 'silent phase'
20 (Nunemaker, Cellscience Reviews Vol 2 No.1, 2005.)             Thus, a burst comprises
   spikes having an inter-spike interval in which the spikes are separated by 0.5
   milliseconds to about 100 milliseconds. Those of skill in the art realize that the
   inter-spike interval can be longer or shorter. Yet further, those of skill in the art
   also realize that the spike rate within the burst does not necessarily occur at a
25 fixed rate; this rate can be variable.       A spike refers to an action potential.   Yet
   further, a "burst spike" refers to a spike that is preceded or followed by another
   spike within a short time interval (Matveev, 2000), in other words, there is an
   inter-spike interval, in which this interval is generally about 100 ms but can be
   shorter or longer, for example 0.5 milliseconds.
30         Still further, it may be of interest to use a system that includes a processor
   that determines whether the patient is in a sleep state, and controls therapy
                                                20

   based upon the sleep state.        The sleep state may be relevant for 1/fP noise
   stimulation therapy if during a given sleep stage the patient's frequency spectrum
   changes, for example, the high frequency is adjusted such that the spectrum
   moves from pink or brown noise to black noise. For example, Fig. 7 shows 1/f2
 5 (brown noise) activity at rest in a human tinnitus patient and in normal patients.
   At rest, the brain has an activity at 1/f2 (brown noise) for the normal patients
   and the tinnitus patients tend to have an activity at 1/f 1 2 (between pink and
   brown noise)
           As referred to herein, the sleep state may refer to a state in which patient
10 is intending on sleeping      (e.g.,  initiating thoughts of sleep), is at rest, is
   attempting to sleep or has initiated sleep and is currently sleeping. In addition,
   the processor may determine a sleep stage of the sleep state based on a
   biosignal detected within brain the patient and control therapy delivery to patient
   based on a determined sleep stage. Examples of biosignals include, but are not
15 limited to, electrical signals generated from local field potentials within one or
   more regions of brain, such as, but not limited to, an electroencephalogram
   (EEG)   signal or an electrocorticogram (ECOG) signal.      The biosignals that are
   detected may be detected within the same tissue site of brain as the target tissue
   site for delivery of electrical stimulation. In other examples, the biosignals may
20 be detected within another tissue site.
           Within a sleep state, the patient may be within one of a plurality of sleep
   stages. Example sleep stages include, for example, Stage 1 (also referred to as
   Stage N1 or S1), Stage 2 (also referred to as Stage N2 or S2), Deep Sleep (also
   referred to as slow wave sleep), and rapid eye movement (REM). The Deep Sleep
25 stage may include multiple sleep stages, such as Stage N3 (also referred to as
   Stage S3) and Stage N4 (also referred to as Stage S4). In some cases, the
   patient may cycle through the Stage 1, Stage 2, Deep Sleep, REM sleep stages
   more than once during a sleep state. The Stage 1, Stage 2, and Deep Sleep
   stages may be considered non-REM (NREM) sleep stages.
30         FIG. 8 shows an exemplary implantable neuromodulation device 800 that
   can be used to determine a stage of sleep and adjust therapy. For example, the
                                               21

   device may include, processor 802, memory 801, stimulation generator 804,
   sensing module 805, telemetry module 806, and sleep stage detection module
   803. Although sleep stage detection module 803 is shown to be a part of
   processor 802 in FIG. 7, in other examples, sleep stage detection module 803
 5 and processor 802 may be separate components and may be electrically coupled,
   e.g., via a wired or wireless connection.
           Memory 801, as shown in Fig. 9, may include any volatile or non-volatile
   media, such as a random access memory (RAM), read only memory (ROM), non
   volatile RAM (NVRAM), electrically erasable programmable ROM (EEPROM), flash
10 memory, and the like. Memory 801 may store instructions for execution by
   processor 802 and information defining therapy delivery for the patient, such as,
   but not limited to, therapy programs or therapy program groups, information
   associating therapy programs with one or more sleep stages, thresholds or other
   information used to detect sleep stages based on biosignals, and any other
15 information    regarding therapy of the patient. Therapy information       may be
   recorded in memory 801 for long-term storage and retrieval by a user. As
   described in further detail with reference to FIG. 9, memory 801 may include
   separate memories for storing information, such as separate memories for
   therapy programs 900, and sleep stage information 901.           Yet further, other
20 memories that       may   be  stored  may   include patient  information,  such  as
   information relating to specific peak frequencies, or information relating to 1/fP
   stimulation.
           It is also envisaged that the recording electrode can be used to record or
   detect sleep stage or when a subject is not in a sleep stage, the recording
25 electrode can be used to detect a change in the normal spectral composition of
   the noise and adjust the parameters of the stimulation therapy, for example,
   adjust the stimulation factors such as drowsiness, stress, depression, excitement,
   arousal, alcohol or other drug intake etc.
                                             22

   V.      Treating Neurological Conditions
           The present stimulation method acts to stimulate neuronal tissue which in
   turn stimulate the neuronal tissue to cause/allow the tissue to act in the best
   interest of the host through use of the its natural mechanisms.
 5         Accordingly, the present methods and/or devices relate to modulation of
   neuronal activity to affect neurological, neuropsychological or neuropsychiatric
   activity. The present method finds particular application in the modulation of
   neuronal function or processing to affect a functional outcome.        The modulation
   of neuronal     function is particularly useful with      regard to the prevention,
10 treatment, or amelioration of neurological, psychiatric, psychological, conscious
   state, behavioral, mood, and thought activity (unless otherwise indicated these
   will be collectively referred to herein as "neurological activity" which includes
   "psychological activity" or "psychiatric activity"). When referring to a pathological
   or undesirable condition associated with the activity, reference may be made to a
15 neurological disorder which includes "psychiatric disorder" or "psychological
   disorder" instead of neurological activity or psychiatric or psychological activity.
   Although the activity to be modulated usually manifests itself in the form of a
   disorder such as a attention or cognitive disorders (e.g.,           Autistic Spectrum
   Disorders); mood disorder (e.g., major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, and
20 dysthymic disorder) or an anxiety disorder (e.g., panic disorder, posttraumatic
   stress    disorder,    obsessive-compulsive     disorder    and    phobic     disorder);
   neurodegenerative      diseases   (e.g.,  multiple   sclerosis, Alzheimer's     disease,
   amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease, Huntington's Disease,
   Guillain-Barre syndrome, myasthenia gravis, and chronic idiopathic demyelinating
25 disease (CID)), movement disorders (e.g., dyskinesia, tremor, dystonia, chorea
   and   ballism, tic syndromes, Tourette's Syndrome, myoclonus, drug-induced
   movement      disorders,  Wilson's   Disease,   Paroxysmal     Dyskinesias,   Stiff Man
   Syndrome and Akinetic-Ridgid Syndromes and Parkinsonism), epilepsy, tinnitus,
   pain, phantom pain, diabetes neuropathy, one skilled in the art appreciates that
30 the invention may also find         application  in conjunction with     enhancing or
                                              23

   diminishing any neurological or psychiatric function, not just an abnormality or
   disorder.     Neurological activity that may be modulated can include, but not be
   limited to, normal functions such as alertness, conscious state, drive, fear, anger,
   anxiety, repetitive behavior, impulses, urges, obsessions, euphoria, sadness, and
 5 the fight or flight response, as well as instability, vertigo, dizziness, fatigue,
   photophobia, concentration dysfunction, memory disorders, headache, dizziness,
   irritability,  fatigue,   visual    disturbances,    sensitivity  to   noise   (misophonia,
   hyperacusis,      photophobia),     judgment     problems,     depression,    symptoms     of
   traumatic     brain   injury   (whether     physical,   emotional,   social   or  chemical),
10 autonomic       functions,   which     includes sympathetic       and/or    parasympathetic
   functions (e.g., control of heart rate), somatic functions, and/or enteric functions.
   Thus, the present methods and/or devices encompass modulation of central
   and/or peripheral nervous systems.
            Other neurological disorders can include, but are not limited to headaches,
15 for   example,      migraine,   trigeminal    autonomic    cephalgia    (cluster   headache
   (episodic     and    chronic)),    paroxysmal     hemicrania     (episodic   and    chronic),
   hemicrania continua, SUNCT (shortlasting unilateral neuralgiform headache with
   conjunctival injection and tearing), cluster tic syndrome, trigeminal neuralgia,
   tension type headache, idiopathic stabbing headache, etc. The neurostimulation
20 device can be implanted intracranially or peripherally, for example, but not
   limited to implanting a neurostimulation device occipitally for the treatment of
   headaches.
            Autonomic and/or enteric nervous system disorders that can be treated
   using the stimulation system and/or method of the present invention include, but
25 are not limited to hypertension, neurosis cordis or heart rhythm disorders,
   obesity, gastrointestinal motion disorders, respiratory disorders, diabetes, sleep
   disorders,     snoring,   incontinence both      urologic and      gastrointestinal,  sexual
   dysfunction,      chronic   fatigue     syndrome,    fibromyalgia,    whiplash   associated
   symptoms, post-concussion syndrome, posttraumatic stress disorder etc.
30          Yet further    immunological disorders may also be treated               using the
   stimulation system and/or method of the present invention. This is based on the
                                                 24

   fact that the immune system senses antigens coordinates' metabolic, endocrine
   and behavioral changes that support the immune system and modulates the
   immune system via neuroendocrine regulation and direct immune cell regulation.
   Such    immunological     disorders include,   such   as   allergy, rhinitis, asthma,
 5 rheumatoid     arthritis, psoriasis arthritis, lupus   erythematosus     disseminatus,
   multiple sclerosis and other demyelinating disorders, autoimmune thyroiditis,
   Crohn's disease, diabetes mellitus etc.
          Still further tumoral disorders, both malignant and benign may also be
   treated using the stimulation system and/or method of the present invention.
10 This is based on the fact that tumoral behavior is linked to immunological
   function. This is seen       in immunodeficiency    syndromes such as AIDS and
   hematological disorders, where multiple and different tumors develop. In this
   setting neuromodulation could indirectly influence tumoral behavior.
          Yet further neuroendocrine disorders may also be treated using the
15 stimulation system and/or method of the present invention. Such disorders are
   stress reactions, hypothalamic-pituitary axis dysfunction, etc.
          Yet further functional disorders may also be treated using the stimulation
   system and/or method of the present invention. Such disorders can be anorexia,
   bulimia, phobias, addictions, paraphilia, psychosis, depression, bipolar disorder,
20 kleptomania, aggression, or antisocial sexual behavior.         One skilled in the art
   appreciates that the invention may also find application in conjunction with
   enhancing or diminishing any neurological or psychiatric function, not just an
   abnormality or disorder.
           Using the above described stimulation system, the predetermined site or
25 target area is stimulated in an effective amount or effective treatment regimen to
   decrease, reduce, modulate or abrogate the neurological disorder or condition.
   Thus, a subject or patient is administered a therapeutically effective stimulation
   so that the subject has an improvement in the parameters relating to the
   neurological disorder or condition including subjective measures such as, for
30 example,     neurological    examinations    and   neuropsychological     tests  (e.g.,
   Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Beck Depression Inventory, Mini
                                             25

   Mental Status Examination       (MMSE),    Hamilton     Rating Scale for Depression,
   Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Tower of London, Stroop task, MADRAS,
   CGI,   N-BAC, or Yale-Brown       Obsessive Compulsive score (Y-BOCS)),          motor
   examination, visual analog scale (VAS) and cranial nerve examination, and
 5 objective measures including use of additional psychiatric medications, such as
   anti-depressants, or other alterations in cerebral blood flow or metabolism and/or
   neurochemistry.
           Patient outcomes may also be tested by health-related quality of life
   (HRQL)    measures: Patient outcome measures that extend beyond traditional
10 measures of mortality and morbidity, to include such dimensions as physiology,
   function, social activity, cognition, emotion, sleep and rest, energy and vitality,
   health perception, normal eating habits or behaviors (i.e., regained appetite or
   reduced appetite) and general life satisfaction. (Some of these are also known as
   health status, functional status, or quality of life measures.)
15         Treatment regimens may vary as well, and often depend on the health
   and age of the patient.      Obviously, certain types of disease will require more
   aggressive treatment, while at the same time; certain patients cannot tolerate
   more taxing regimens. The clinician will be best suited to make such decisions
   based on the known subject's history.
20         For purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired clinical results include,
   but are not limited to, alleviation of symptoms, improvement of symptoms,
   diminishment of extent of disease, stabilized (i.e.,         not worsening) state of
   disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the
   disease state, and remission (whether partial or total), whether objective or
25 subjective.   The improvement is any observable or measurable improvement.
   Thus, one of skill in the art realizes that a treatment may improve the patient
   condition, but may not be a complete cure of the disease.
           In certain embodiments, in connection with improvement in one or more
   of the above or other neurological disorders, the electrical stimulation may have
30 a "brightening" effect on the person such that the person looks better, feels
   better,   moves better, thinks better, and         otherwise experiences an overall
                                             26

   improvement in quality of life, (e.g., self confidence, alleviating shyness, distrust
   etc).
           In certain embodiments, the neuromodulation method described herein is
   utilized to treat a subject suffering from or suspected of suffering from tinnitus.
 5 Thus, a subject is administered a therapeutically effective stimulation so that the
   subject has an improvement in the parameters relating to tinnitus including
   informal    questioning of the subject, formal subjective testing and analysis
   according to one or more audiology test, for example the Goebel tinnitus
   questionnaire or other validated tinnitus questionnaires, audiometry, tinnitus
10 matching, impedance, BAEP, and OAE.           The improvement is any observable or
   measurable improvement.        Thus, one of skill in the art realizes that a treatment
   may improve the patient condition, but may not be a complete cure of the
   disease.
           In other embodiments, the neuromodulation method described herein is
15 utilized to treat a subject suffering from or suspected of suffering from pain. One
   example of a method for pain measurement is the use of the Visual Analog Scale
   (VAS).    In the VAS patients are asked to rank their pain by making a mark on a
   bar that is labeled "no pain" on one end, and "pain as bad as possible" on the
   other end.    Patients may mark the bar anywhere between the two opposite poles
20 of perceived pain sensation. This mark can then be given any quantitative value
   such as fractional, decimal or integer values by the clinician and used as a semi
   quantitative pain measurement.       In various tests for pain severity, patients may
   rank their pain on a scale between zero and ten, by a scale of faces depicting
   various emotions from happy to very sad and upset, and by answering a variety
25 of questions describing the pain. In preferred embodiments, the patient's pain is
   assessed     prior   to and  during   a trial   implantation   procedure.     In  other
   embodiments,       informal subjective questioning of the person, and/or formal
   subjective testing and analysis may be performed to determine whether the
   subject's pain has sufficiently improved throughout trial stimulation.
30         In addition to utilizing pain scores and grading and objective measures
   including use of additional pain medications (e.g., reduction in the amount of
                                             27

   medication consume or elimination of the consumption of pain medications),
   other methods to determine improvement of a patient's pain may comprise
   administering various standardized questionnaires or tests to determine the
   patient's neuropsychological state as described above.
 5         If the subject's neurological disorder/disease has not sufficiently improved,
   or if the reduction of the neurological disorder/disease is determined to be
   incomplete or inadequate during an intra-implantation trial stimulation procedure,
   stimulation lead may be moved incrementally or even re-implanted, one or more
   stimulation parameters may be adjusted, or both of these modifications may be
10 made and repeated until at least one symptom associated with the neurological
   disorder/disease has improved.
          Where appropriate, post-implantation trial stimulation may be conducted
   to determine the efficacy of various types of burst and tonic stimulation.
   Examples of efficacy metrics may include the minimum required voltage for a
15 given    protocol   to  achieve   maximum     and/or   therapeutic  benefits  to  the
   neurological disease and/or disorder.         Efficacy metrics may also include a
   measurement of the presence and/or degree of habituation to a given protocol
   over one or more weeks or months, and any necessary modifications made
   accordingly. Such assessments can be conducted by suitable programming, such
20 as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,938,690, which is incorporated by reference
   here in full. Utilizing such a program allows an optimal stimulation therapy to be
   obtained at minimal power.      This ensures a longer battery life for the implanted
   systems.
           In certain embodiments, it may be desirable for the patient to control the
25 therapy to optimize the operating parameters to achieve increased or optimized
   the treatment.     For example, the patient can alter the pulse frequency, pulse
   amplitude and pulse width using a hand held radio frequency device that
   communicates with the IPG. Once the operating parameters have been altered
   by the patient, the parameters can be stored in a memory device to be retrieved
30 by either the patient or the clinician.   Yet further, particular parameter settings
                                             28

   and changes therein may be correlated with particular times and days to form a
   patient therapy profile that can be stored in a memory device.
   VI.     Example
          The following are examples provided herein.       It should be appreciated by
 5 those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow
   represent techniques discovered by the inventors to function well in the practice
   of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its
   practice.    However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the present
   disclosure, appreciate       that many changes can       be   made in the specific
10 embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
           In the clinical setting, patients were implanted to treat pain or tinnitus.
   Materials and Methods
           Patients having spasticity, phantom      pain, facial pain or tinnitus were
15 implanted with electrodes for stimulation therapy using 1/fB noise stimulation
   patterns.     The patients were implanted with the electrodes (Lamitrode 44
   stimulation lead available from ANS Medical, Plano, TX, USA).        In most patients,
   the electrodes (Lamitrode 44 stimulation lead available from ANS Medical, Plano,
   TX, USA) were implanted in the auditory cortex, and one patient was implanted
20 with a cervical dorsal column stimulation electrode (Lamitrode 44 stimulation
   lead).   Prior to the use of 1/fB noise stimulation patterns, all patients underwent
   burst stimulation at 6, 18, or 40 Hz consisting of 5 spikes with 1ms pulse width, 1
   ms interspike interval in a charged balanced manner and 6, 18, or 40 Hz tonic
   mode interspersed between or around the bursts. The stimuli were delivered by
25 an 8 channel digital neurostimulator (DS8000,          World Precision Instruments,
   Hertfordshire, England/Sarasota, Florida, USA), capable of delivering tonic and
   burst mode stimulation.        Next, 1/fB noise stimulation patterns was used to
   determine if 1/fB noise stimulation patterns resulted in more improvement of the
   symptoms or reduces the risk of epileptic events.            Three patients received
                                              29

   constant 1/fB noise stimulation for >1.5 hrs without an epileptic event.         The
   stimuli were delivered by an 8 channel digital neurostimulator (DS8000, World
   Precision Instruments, Hertfordshire, England/Sarasota, Florida, USA), capable of
   delivering 1/fB noise stimulation, see for example FIGS. 3A and 3B.
 5         In another patient, the stimulation was altered by adding a beta peak
   frequency; see for example, FIG. 5A and 5B.
   Results
           The below Table 1 shows VAS scores for patients that had burst, tonic and
   then had noise stimulation or 1/f0 stimulation.       The table shows that by 1/fp
10 stimulation parameters patients suffering tinnitus, spasticity, phantom pain and
   facial can be treated with improved benefits of no epileptic events measured
   during constant stimulation for > 1.5 hrs. Yet further, the below table also shows
   that if the patient responds to burst or tonic stimulation, then the patient will
   respond to 1/f0 stimulation parameters, and if the patient does not respond to
15 burst or tonic stimulation, then they will probably not respond to 1/fp stimulation
   parameters. This lack of response may be an indication that the stimulation site
   is not optimal and a different site should be examined or investigated.
                                   NOISE STIMULATION
                         Pre-operative         prestimulation       Post 1/f0 noise
                                                                    pulse alpha peak
                                                                    modulated stimu
                                                                    lation
   spasticity            7                     6                    4
   phantom pain          9                     5.5                  3.5
   dorsal column         8                     6                    4
   stimulation
   tinnitus              8                     7                    6.5
   tinnitus              10                    9.5                  8
   tinnitus              10                    7                    7
   Facial pain           7                     6.5                  5.5
   tinnitus              9                     7                    6
   Tinnitus              9                     8                    7
   Tinnitus              8                     8                    8
   Tinnitus              10                    10                   10
   Tinnitus              8                     8                    8
   Facial pain           8                     8                    8
   *= after tonic or burst stimulation
                                             30

   Conclusions
           At least three patients were stimulated constantly for more than one hour
   without inducing an epileptic event. Thus, this type of stimulation paradigm is
   anti-epileptic and will prevent habituation because it mimics natural oscillations
 5 and has a longer lasting residual inhibition which will limit battery utilization and
   limit the amount of current that is used to stimulate the brain.
           As will be recognized by those skilled in the art, the innovative concepts
   described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide
   range of applications. Accordingly, the scope of patented subject matter should
10 not be limited to any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed above, but is
   instead defined by the following claims.
                                            31

                                     WHAT IS CLAIMED:
           1.     A device for altering or deactivating pathological active brain areas
   comprising means for stimulating brain regions, characterized in that it comprises
   the following components:
 5         a.     at least one electrode; and
           b.     a control means which are designed such that, during operation,
   they control the at least one electrode to emit stimuli to brain tissue that com
   prises a signal that is produced from a frequency spectrum having a power spec
   tral density per unit of bandwidth proportional to 1/fP, wherein  P excludes  0.
10
           2.     The device according to claim 1 characterized in that the control
   generates a frequency spectrum of having a power spectral density per unit of
   bandwidth proportional to 1/fP, wherein     P= 1.
15         3.     The device according to claim 1 characterized in that the control
   generates a frequency spectrum of having a power spectral density per unit of
   bandwidth proportional to 1/fP, wherein     P= 2.
           4.     The device according to claim 1 characterized in that it comprises a
20 control which controls at least two electrodes with signals for individual stimuli.
           5.     The device according to claim 1 characterized in that the control is
   so programmed that the stimuli are applied either essentially periodically or
   stochastically.
25
           6.     The device according to claim 1 characterized in that the control
   produces a burst stimulus having a plurality of groups of spike pulses.
           7.     A method of stimulating nerve tissue of a patient using a pulse
30 generator, the method comprising:
                                              32

           generating, by a pulse generator, a stimulus that comprises a signal that is
   produced from a frequency spectrum having a power spectral density per unit of
   bandwidth proportional to 1/fP, wherein    P is excludes 0;
           providing the stimulus from the pulse generator to at least one stimulation
 5 lead; and
           applying the stimulus to nerve tissue of the patient via one or several elec
   trodes of the at least one stimulation lead.
           8.     The method of claim 7, wherein    p =1.
10
           9.     The method of claim 7, wherein      =2.
           10.    The method of claim 7, wherein the stimulus is combined with at
   least one pulse stimulus to be repeated in a tonic manner.
15
           11.    The method of claim 7, wherein the stimulus is combined with a
   burst stimulus that comprises a plurality of groups of spike pulses.
           12.    The method of claim 7, wherein the stimulus is combined with at
20 least one pulse stimulus to be repeated in a tonic manner, and with a burst
   stimulation that comprises a plurality of groups of spike pulses.
           13.    The method of claim 7, wherein the stimulus is modulated at any a
   specific frequency, either by selective power increase, envelope modulation or
25 adding more tonic or burst stimuli of this frequency.
           14.    A method of stimulating nerve tissue of a patient using a pulse
   generator, the method comprising:
           storing, in the pulse generator, one first stimulation parameter that
30 defines a frequency to be used as the lower bound of a frequency spectrum;
                                             33

          storing, in the pulse generator, one second stimulation parameter that de
   fines a frequency to be used as the upper bound of a frequency spectrum;
          generating, by pulse generator, a stimulus that comprises a frequency
   spectrum    between    the first stimulation   parameter and   second stimulation
 5 parameter, wherein the frequency and power of the frequency spectrum are
   inversely proportional;
           providing the stimulus from the implantable pulse generator to at least
   one stimulation lead; and
          applying the stimulus to nerve tissue of the patient via at least one elec
10 trodes of the at least one stimulation lead.
           15.    The method of claim 14 wherein the is further defined as having a
   frequency spectrum of 1/fP, wherein    P excludes 0.
15         16.    The method of claim 14, wherein   p =1.
           17.    The method of claim 14, wherein   p =2.
           18.    The method of claim 14, wherein the stimulus is combined with at
20 least one stimulation pulse to be repeated in a tonic manner.
           19.    The method     of claim   14, wherein the pink noise stimulus is
   combined with a burst stimulus that comprises a plurality of groups of spike
   pulses.
25
          20.     A method of stimulating nerve tissue of a patient using a pulse
   generator, the method comprising:
          storing,  in the pulse generator, one first stimulation parameter that
   defines a frequency to be used as the lower bound of a frequency spectrum;
30        storing, in the pulse generator, one second stimulation parameter that de
   fines a frequency to be used as the upper bound of a frequency spectrum;
                                             34

          storing, in pulse generator, one third stimulation parameter that defines a
   frequency at which a peak of a pre-determined amplitude is to occur;
          generating, by pulse generator, a stimulus that comprises a frequency
   spectrum    between    the first stimulation  parameter and     second stimulation
 5 parameter, wherein the power spectral density is inversely proportional to the
   frequency, wherein      a peak   of a pre-determined     amplitude occurs at     the
   frequency defined by the third stimulation parameter;
          providing the stimulus from the pulse generator to at least one stimulation
   lead; and
10        applying the stimulus to nerve tissue of the patient via one or several elec
   trodes of the at least one stimulation lead.
          21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the noise stimulus is combined
   with at least one stimulation pulse to be repeated in a tonic manner, and with a
15 burst stimulation that comprises a plurality of groups of spike pulses.
          22.    The method of claim 20, wherein the peak occurs at a frequency
   between 0 and 4 Hertz.
20        23.    The method of claim 20, wherein the peak occurs at a frequency
   between 4 and 7 Hertz.
          24.    The method of claim 20, wherein the peak occurs at a frequency
   between 8 and 12 Hertz.
25
          25.    The method of claim 20, wherein the peak occurs at a frequency
   between 12 and 30 Hertz.
                                             35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
