ABSTRACT (Figure 1)
The present invention relates to a lift assembly for use with an elevated work platform. The lift
assembly includes one or more rails extending between a support surface and the elevated work
platform, a lift platform for supporting and moving a load between a lowered and elevated
position, said lift platform configured to be slidably mounted to the one or more rails and a drive
mechanism for driving movement of the lift platform between the lowered and elevated positions,
said drive mechanism including a winch having a drive spool or drive wheel and a drive line
extending from the drive spool or drive wheel and coupled to one of the lift platform and a base
of the elevated work platform, wherein said drive spool or drive wheel is pneumatically powered
and configured to wind in and out the drive line to move the lift platform between the lowered
and the elevated positions.

                       1/3
                                       900
                 920
       9224
924
   910                      1
   132                                      930
                                        116
                                   110
                               112
                           114
  100    120
       310   940           950
                     Figure 1

                                                  1
                     A LIFT ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF USE THEREOF
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to an elevated work platform and methods of use
thereof. In particular, the present invention concerns a lift assembly for use with an elevated
work platform and to methods of use thereof.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       Elevated work platforms are devices used to provide temporary access for people or
equipment to elevated structures, equipment, machinery, vehicles and the like. Generally, such
platforms include a base atop of which a work platform is supported. The platform may typically
be accessed by a ladder or stairway.
[0003]       For example, in the mining and commercial building industries, elevated work
platforms are commonly used by workers completing work at a height, such as, e.g., on a large
mining vehicle or an upper level or roof of a building structure.
[0004]       A problem with elevated work platforms is that workers will often need to carry their
tools and/or work parts with them up to the work platform. In some instances, the tools and/or
parts may be heavy, large and/or awkwardly shaped, which can make carrying the tools and/or
parts up to the work platform difficult and possibly dangerous.
[0005]       The applicant has previously developed a lift platform for raising and lowering a load
relative to a work platform. The applicant's earlier lift platform was raised and lowered by a drill
powered drive mechanism. However, the applicant found their earlier lift platform to be overly
complicated and expensive to build and install due to numerous parts. Moreover, the earlier lift
platform was prone to failure due to cable issues and a wandering detachable drill -         the latter
rendering the drive mechanism and thus the lift platform inoperable.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0006]       Embodiments of the present invention provide a lift assembly, an elevated work
platform including the lift assembly and methods of use thereof, which may at least partially
minimise or overcome at least one of the problems mentioned above, or which may provide the
public or a consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[0007]       According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a lift assembly
for use with an elevated work platform having a base and a work platform supported above a

                                                    2
support surface by the base, said lift assembly including:
               one or more rails extending at least partially along a height of the base between the
support surface and the work platform;
               a lift platform for supporting and moving a load between a lowered position adjacent
the support surface and an elevated position adjacent the work platform, said lift platform
configured to be slidably mounted to the one or more rails; and
               a drive mechanism for driving movement of the lift platform between the lowered and
elevated positions, said drive mechanism including a winch having a drive spool or drive wheel
mounted to one of the lift platform and the base and a drive line extending between the drive
spool or drive wheel and the other of the lift platform and the base, wherein said drive spool or
drive wheel is pneumatically powered and configured to wind in and out the drive line to move
the lift platform between the lowered and elevated positions.
[0008]         According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an elevated
work platform having the lift assembly as defined in the first aspect.
[0009]         Advantageously, the present invention provides a lift assembly that is less
complicated, less expensive to build and install and most importantly more reliable than the
applicant's earlier lift platform. By using a pneumatically powered drive mechanism, the risk of
the drive mechanism and the lift platform becoming inoperable due to a missing drill has been
obviated. Moreover, a pneumatically powered drive mechanism is more reliable than a drill
powered drive mechanism due to less parts, particularly less moving parts. Lastly, use of the
pneumatically powered drive mechanism enables embodiments of the present invention to use
a chain drive line, which provides numerous advantages over a cable drive line, including that
the chain drive line is stronger and thus can lift a greater load and is easier to store.
[0010]         The load may include at least one article or at least one person. If at least one article,
the load may be a tool or work part, for example. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that
the load may ultimately be any article or articles.
[0011]         The elevated work platform may be of any suitable size, shape and construction for
providing access to an elevated work site. The elevated work platform may typically include a
base and a work platform mounted atop the base. Generally, the base and the work platform
may be formed from metal, preferably steel.
[0012]         The base may preferably be in the form of a frame and may include at least one
support post for supporting the work platform above a support surface. The support post may
be of any suitable length to support the work platform at any desired height above the support
surface.

                                                    3
[0013]      The at least one support post may preferably be in the form of a frame member
extending longitudinally between the support surface and the work platform, typically in a
substantially vertical direction.
[0014]      In preferred embodiments, the base may include more than one support post. For
example, the base may include at least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six,
at least seven, at least eight, at least nine or even at least 10 support posts. Typically, the posts,
in the form of vertically extending frame members, may be joined together by a plurality of
transversely extending cross frame members.
[0015]      The various frame members may be of tubular construction, solid construction, plate
construction or any combination thereof. If tubular, the frame members may have a substantially
rectangular-shaped cross-section.
[0016]      The various frame members and the work platform may be joined together using
conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical fasteners.
[0017]      The base may be of any suitable height to elevate the work platform to any desired
height. For example, the base may have a height, extending between a lower end and an upper
end, of about 1.5m, about 2.0m, about 2.5m, about 3.0m, about 3.5m, about 4.0m, about 4.5m,
about 5.0m, about 5.5m, about 6.0m, about 6.5m, about 7.0m, about 7.5m, about 8.0m, about
8.5m, about 9.0m, about 9.5m or even at least about 1Oin.
[0018]      Likewise, the work platform may be of any size, shape and construction suitably
adapted to provide a safe work platform for workers.
[0019]      In some embodiments, the work platform may be circular or oval-shaped.
[0020]      In other embodiments, the work platform may have a polygonal shape. For example,
the platform may be in the shape of a triangle, square, rectangle, pentagon, hexagon or octagon.
[0021]      Generally, the work platform may include an upper surface and an opposed lower
surface.   The opposed surfaces may extend substantially parallel to one another and be
interconnected by opposing edges including opposed end edges and opposed side edges. The
work platform may include corners extending between adjacent edges, preferably rounded
corners.
[0022]      In some embodiments, the work platform may be formed from a solid metal panel.
 In other embodiments, the work platform may be formed from mesh, preferably steel mesh.

                                                    4
[0023]       In some embodiments, at least the upper surface of the work platform may include
a liner or coating to at least partially provide grip. The liner or coating may be of any suitable
size, shape and construction and formed from any suitable material.
[0024]       Typically, the liner or coating may be formed from a resiliently deformable material
or materials, such as, e.g., rubber or soft plastic material or materials.
[0025]       In other embodiments, the work platform may include a pad extending at least
partially across the upper surface of the work platform to at least partially provide grip. The pad
may typically be formed of a resiliently deformable material or materials, such as, e.g., rubber or
soft plastic material or materials.
[0026]       In some embodiments, the platform may include a safety rail extending upwardly
from and along at least one of the side edges and/or end edges. The safety rail may be of any
suitable construction known in the art.
[0027]       In embodiments in which the platform includes a safety rail, the platform may further
include a safety access gate defined in the safety rail adjacent the location at which the lift
platform moves adjacent the platform.          The safety access gate may typically be pivotable,
preferably inwards, between an open and closed position to control access to the lift platform
from the platform. The safety access gate may include a latch or locking mechanism. The latch
or locking mechanism may be configured to prevent the safety access gate from being opened
unless or until the lift platform is in the elevated position adjacent the work platform.
[0028]       In some embodiments, the elevated work platform may include access means
enabling a person to gain access to the work platform. The access means may include a ladder
or stairway extending along or from one of the edges, for example.
[0029]       In some embodiments, the elevated work platform may be capable of being moved.
In such embodiments, the elevated work platform may include wheels or caterpillar tracks for
moving the base and the work platform along a surface. The wheels or caterpillar tracks may
be located on or mounted to an underside of the base. The wheels or caterpillar tracks may be
mounted directly or indirectly to the base.
[0030]       Generally, the wheels may be rotatably mounted to the base such that each wheel
is able to swivel about a vertical axis. Each wheel may also typically include a brake so that the
base and thus the elevated work platform may be parked in a desired location. Preferably, the
wheels may be swivel casters.
[0031]       In some embodiments, the elevated work platform may include one or more stabilizer

                                                  5
feet configured to extend downwards relative to the base and engage a support surface to
stabilize the elevated work platform in a desired location. Typically, the elevated work platform
may include at least two stabilizer feet, preferably at least four stabilizer feet. The feet may
generally be arranged in opposed pairs around the base.
[0032]       Each foot may be in the form of a vertically extendable member having a foot located
at, or coupled to, a lower end. Each foot may be capable of being moved between a stowage
position in which the foot is held clear of the support surface and an engaged position in which
the foot engages with the support surface to at least partially stabilize the elevated work platform.
[0033]       In preferred embodiments, each foot may include a linear actuator mounted to the
base and having a foot located at, or coupled to, the lower end of the linear actuator. The linear
actuator may be a hydraulic or pneumatic ram, a screw jack or a rigid chain actuator, for
example.
[0034]       The lift assembly of the present invention may include a lift platform of any size,
shape and construction and formed from any material or materials suitably adapted for
supporting and moving a load between the lowered and elevated positions.
[0035]       Generally, the lift platform may be vertically moveable in a linear direction between
the lowered position in which the lift platform rests atop or adjacent a support surface and an
elevated position in which the lift platform rest adjacent the work platform of the elevated work
platform, preferably in an edge-to-edge manner.
[0036]       In some embodiments, the lift platform may be circular or oval-shaped.
[0037]       In other embodiments, the lift platform may have a polygonal shape. For example,
the platform may be in the shape of a triangle, square, rectangle, pentagon, hexagon or octagon.
[0038]       Typically, the lift platform may have a rectangular shape. The lift platform may
include opposed surfaces extending substantially parallel to one another and interconnected by
opposing edges.
[0039]       The opposed surfaces may include an upper surface and an opposed lower surface.
[0040]       The opposing edges may include a work platform facing edge, an opposed outer
edge and opposed side edges.
[0041]       The lift platform may include corners extending between adjacent edges, preferably
rounded corners.

                                                     6
[0042]         Typically, like the work platform, the lift platform may be formed of metal, preferably
steel.
[0043]         In some embodiments, the lift platform may be formed from a solid metal panel. In
other embodiments, the lift platform may be formed from mesh, preferably steel mesh.
[0044]         In some embodiments, at least the upper surface of the lift platform may include a
liner or coating to at least partially provide grip to a load being supported and moved. The liner
or coating may be of any suitable size, shape and construction and formed from any suitable
material. Typically, the liner or coating may be formed from a resiliently deformable material or
materials, such as, e.g., rubber or soft plastic material or materials.
[0045]         In other embodiments, the lift platform may include a pad extending at least partially
across the upper surface of the lift platform to at least partially provide grip to the load being
supported and moved. The pad may typically be formed of a resiliently deformable material or
materials, such as, e.g., rubber or soft plastic material or materials.
[0046]         In some embodiments, the lift platform may include a side rail extending upwardly
from and along at least one of the edges, preferably at least along the outer edge and the
opposed side edges. The side rail may be of any suitable construction configured to at least
partially prevent a load from falling off the lift platform when being moved between the support
surface and the work platform.
[0047]         In other embodiments, the lift platform may include at least one sidewall extending
upwardly from and along at least one of the edges, preferably at least along the outer edge and
the opposed side edges. The at least one sidewall may extend upwards to any suitable height
above the lift platform to at least partially prevent a load from slipping or sliding off the lift platform
when being moved between the support surface and the work platform.
[0048]         In yet other embodiments, the lift platform may include a cage.              In one such
embodiment, the cage may include an opening for loading and unloading a load from the lift
platform. In another such embodiment, the cage may be detachably connected to the lift platform
such that the cage may be detached to load or unload the lift platform. In a preferred such
embodiment, the cage may be pivotally coupled to the lift platform along an edge such that the
cage may be pivoted away from the lift platform to load and unload the lift platform.
[0049]        As indicated above, the lift platform may be slidably mounted to one or more rails
extending between the support surface and the work platform of the elevated work platform so
that the lift platform may slide therebetween.

                                                   7
[0050]        The lift platform may be slidably mounted to the one or more rails in any suitable
way, preferably detachably. In preferred embodiments, the lift platform may be slidably mounted
to two rails, preferably two parallel rails.
[0051]        For example, in some embodiments the lift platform and the one or more rails may
be connected by a connecting mechanism or part of a connecting mechanism. A first part of the
connecting mechanism associated with the lifting platform may mate or engage with a second
part of the connecting mechanism associated with the one or more rails.
[0052]        The connecting mechanism may include mateable male and female portions that
couple together, including interference (snap fit) connections or threaded connections, for
example.     In some embodiments, the connecting mechanism may include a male formation
associated with the lift platform configured to be inserted into or coupled with a female formation
associated with the one or more rails.        Conversely, in other embodiments, the connecting
mechanism may include a female formation associated with the lift platform configured to at least
partially receive or be coupled with a male formation associated with the one or more rails.
[0053]        The one or more rails may extend longitudinally between the support surface and
the work platform of the elevated work platform for movement of the lift platform therealong.
Typically, the rails may extend down an outer surface of the base of the elevated work platform,
preferably in a substantially vertical orientation and substantially parallel to one another.
[0054]        The rails may include may include any form of guided or directional conveyance. For
example, the rails may each include a track. The one or more rails may be of any suitable size,
shape and construction and formed from any suitable material or materials. Preferably, the rails
may be of a size, shape and construction to at least partially prevent lateral movement or
separation of the lift platform away from the rails.
[0055]        In preferred embodiments, each rail may be in the form of a linear frame member
extending in a substantially vertical orientation at least partially along a height of the base of the
elevated work platform, preferably entirely along a height of the base of the elevated work
platform.
[0056]        Typically, each rail may be of tubular or solid construction, preferably tubular, and
may have a substantially rectangular cross-section.         Each rail may extend linearly between
opposed ends, including a lower end and an opposed upper end. Each rail may include an inner
surface, an opposed outer surface and opposed side surfaces.
[0057]        Like with the various frame members forming the base of the elevated work platform,

                                                  8
the rails may be joined to the base using conventional welding techniques and/or with one or
more mechanical fasteners.
[0058]       Generally, the lift platform may be slidably mounted to each rail by a slide mounting
portion.  The slide mounting portion may be of any suitable size, shape and construction to
slidably mount the lift platform to a rail.
[0059]       Typically, the slide mounting portion may include a bracket or pair of brackets
configured to be mounted or coupled to the lift platform. The bracket or brackets may be sized
and shaped to extend outwardly past a corresponding rail, when the lift platform is slidably
mounted.
[0060]       Each slide mounting portion may include one or more rollers, wheels, plain bearing
pads, slide blocks or the like configured to engage and move along the rail.
[0061]       Preferably, each slide mounting portion may include one or more rollers, wheels,
plain bearing pads, slide blocks or the like that may hook around a side surface of the rail for
moving along an inner surface of the rail and at least partially preventing separation of the lift
platform away from the rails.       Each slide mounting portion may further include one or more
rollers, wheels, plain bearing pads, slide blocks or the like configured to move along an outer
surface of the rails.
[0062]       In some embodiments, at least one of the rollers, wheels, plain bearing pads, slide
blocks or the like may be detachable or hingedly connected to enable a slide mounting portion
associated with the lift platform to be hooked on and off of a respective rail.
[0063]       In preferred embodiments, the slide mounting portion may include a U-shaped
bracket configured to fit around each rail. The bracket may include a base and a pair of opposed
side wings extending outwardly from opposed sides of the base. The bracket may include a first
roller, wheel, plain bearing pad, sliding block or the like associated with the base and configured
to move along an outer surface of a rail and a second detachable roller, wheel, plain bearing
pad, sliding block or the like extending between distal ends of the opposed side wings and
configured to move along an inner surface of the rail.
[0064]       Each slide mounting portion may be joined to a lower surface or side edge of the lift
platform using conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical fasteners.
[0065]      As indicated above, the lift assembly includes a drive mechanism for driving
movement of the lift platform between the lowered and elevated positions. The drive mechanism
includes a winch having a drive spool or drive wheel and a drive line coupled to the drive spool

                                                  9
or drive wheel and configured to be wound in and out to move the lift platform. The drive spool
or drive wheel is preferably pneumatically powered to wind in and out the drive line.
[0066]       Advantageously, by being pneumatically powered, the drive mechanism of the
present invention eliminates the need for a detachable drill, which the applicant has found have
a tendency to wander leaving the drive mechanism and thus the lift platform inoperable.
[0067]       In some embodiments, the drive mechanism may include a source of compressed
or pressurised gas, typically pressurised air, for powering the drive spool or drive wheel.
[0068]       In other embodiments, the drive mechanism may include an air compressor for
providing pressurised air for powering the drive spool or drive wheel. The air compressor may
be electrically powered or petrol/diesel powered.
[0069]       In some embodiments, the drive mechanism may include a storage container for
storing drive line that has been wound in by the drive spool or drive wheel.
[0070]       The drive line may be a cable or chain, preferably a chain. Advantageously, the
applicant has found that a chain drive line is stronger and easier to store than a cable drive line.
[0071]       In some embodiments, the drive line may typically be coupled to the drive spool or
drive wheel at one end and may be coupled at the other end to the lift platform or a lower end of
the base of the elevated work platform via at least one fixed pulley coupled to an upper end of
the base or an underside of the work platform.
[0072]       For example, in one such embodiment, the drive mechanism, including the drive
spool or drive wheel, may be mounted to an underside of the lift platform and the drive line may
extend from the drive spool or drive wheel and be coupled to a fixed location at or near the lower
end of the base of the elevated work platform via at least one fixed pulley coupled to an upper
end of the base or an underside of the work platform.
[0073]       In another such embodiment, the drive mechanism including the drive spool or drive
wheel may be mounted to the base of the elevated work platform and the drive line may extend
from the drive spool or drive wheel and be coupled to the lift platform via at least one fixed pulley
coupled to an upper end of the base or an underside of the work platform.
[0074]       In preferred embodiments, the drive mechanism, including the drive spool or drive
wheel, may be mounted to an underside of the work platform and the drive line may extend from
the drive spool or drive wheel and be coupled to the lift platform, preferably at or near the work
platform facing edge.

                                                    10
[0075]        In all the embodiments described above, the drive spool or drive wheel may be
pneumatically driven to wind in the drive line and raise the lift platform at least partially towards
the elevated position. Conversely, the drive spool or drive wheel may wind out the drive line to
lower the lift platform at least partially towards the lowered position.
[0076]        In some embodiments, the lift platform may be pivotally coupled to the slide mounting
portions such that the lift platform may pivot away from the rails when in the lowered position to
facilitate loading and unloading. The lift platform may be pivotally coupled to the slide mounting
portions in any suitable way known in the art.
[0077]        Typically, the lift platform may be pivotally coupled to the slide mounting portions by
a pivoting or hinged arrangement that enables the lift platform to be pivoted away when in the
lowered position.
[0078]        In some embodiments, the lift platform may further include a lift access gate located
above an outer edge of the lift platform. Like the safety access gate described above for the
work platform, the lift access gate may be pivotable between an open and closed position to
control external access to the lift platform when not in the lowered position. Preferably, the lift
access gate may include a latch or locking mechanism. The latch or locking mechanism may
be configured to prevent the lift access gate from being opened unless or until the lift platform is
in the lowered position.
[0079]        According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
moving a load between a support surface and an elevated platform of an elevated work platform
having a lift assembly as defined in the first aspect, said method including:
              loading the load to be moved atop the lift platform; and
              slidably moving the lift platform to a desired position selected from a lowered position
adjacent the support surface and an elevated position adjacent the work platform.
[0080]        The method may include one or more characteristics or features of the lift assembly
and elevated work platform as hereinbefore described.
[0081]        In some embodiments, the loading may include opening an access gate to provide
access to the lift platform for loading. Once loaded, the loading may include closing the access
gate.
[0082]        In other embodiments and when in the lowered position, the loading may include
pivoting the lift platform away from the rails to provide access for loading. Once loaded, the
loading may include pivoting the lift platform back towards the rails.

                                                   11
[0083]       The slidably moving may include winding in or out the drive line to respectively raise
or lower the lift platform relative to the work platform.
[0084]       For example, to raise the lift platform to the elevated position adjacent the work
platform, the moving may include activating the source of compressed air to drive the drive spool
or drive wheel to wind in the drive line and raise the lift platform.
[0085]       Likewise, to lower the lift platform, the drive spool or drive wheel may be used to
wind out the drive line and lower the lift platform.
[0086]      Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0087]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0088]       Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled in
the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0089]       Figure 1 is a line drawing showing an upper perspective view of an elevated work
platform having a lift assembly according to an embodiment of the present invention;
[0090]       Figure 2 is a photograph showing part of a front view of the lift assembly as shown
in Figure 1; and
[0091]       Figures 3A and 3B are photographs respectively showing a drive mechanism and a
rear view of the lift platform of the lift assembly as shown in Figures 1 and 2; and
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0092]       Figure 1 shows an elevated work platform (900) with a lift assembly (100) according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0093]       The lift assembly (100) includes two parallel rails (110) extending along a height of
a base (910) of an elevated work platform (900); a lift platform (120) for supporting and moving

                                                    12
a load between a lowered position in which the lift platform (120) is positioned adjacent a support
surface and an elevated position in which the lift platform (120) is positioned adjacent the work
platform (920) of the elevated work platform (900), the lift platform (120) being slidably mounted
to the two parallel rails (110); and a drive mechanism for driving movement of the lift platform
(120) between the lowered and elevated positions.
[0094]        The drive mechanism is mounted to an underside of the work platform (920) and
includes a winch (130; shown only in Figure 3B) having a drive wheel and a drive chain (132;
i.e., a drive line) extending between the drive wheel and the lift platform (120). The winch (130;
shown only in Figure 3B) is pneumatically powered and configured to wind in and out the drive
chain (132) with the drive wheel to respectively raise and lower the lift platform (120) between
the lowered and elevated positions.
[0095]        Referring to Figure 1, the elevated work platform (900) includes the work platform
(920) and the base (910) for supporting the work platform (920) above a support surface, such
as, e.g., a ground surface. The base (910) and the work platform (920) are formed of steel and
joined together using conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical
fasteners.
[0096]        The base (910) includes a frame for supporting the work platform (920) formed from
a plurality of vertically-extending support posts (912) joined together by a plurality of transversely
extending cross frame members (914).
[0097]        The various frame members (912, 914) are generally of tubular construction having
a substantially rectangular-shaped cross-section. Again, the various frame members (912, 914)
are joined together using conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical
fasteners.
[0098]        The work platform (920) generally has a polygonal shape. The work platform (920)
includes an upper surface and an opposed lower surface interconnected by opposing edges.
[0099]        As shown, the work platform (920) is formed from steel mesh and includes a safety
rail (922) extending upwardly from and along the edges of the platform (920).
[00100]       The safety rail (922) includes a safety access gate (924) adjacent the location at
which the lift assembly (100) is located. The safety access gate (924) is pivotable between open
and closed position to control access to the lift platform (120) from the platform (920). The safety
access gate (924) includes a latch or locking mechanism to prevent the gate (924) from being
opened unless or until the lift platform (120) is in the elevated position adjacent the work platform

                                                       13
(920).
[00101]        The elevated work platform (900) further includes a stairway (930) extending from
an edge of the work platform (920) enabling a person access to the work platform (920) from the
support surface.
[00102]        As shown, the elevated work platform (900) is capable of being moved. In particular,
the elevated work platform (900) includes swivel casters (940) mounted to an underside of the
base (910). Each swivel caster (940) includes a brake so that the base (910) and thus the
elevated work platform (900) can be parked in a desired location.
[00103]        As also shown, the elevated work platform (900) includes four stabilizer feet (950)
configured to extend downwards relative to the base (910) and engage a support surface to
stabilize the elevated work platform (900) in a desired location.
[00104]        Each of the stabilizer feet (950) includes a screw jack mounted to the base (910) and
a foot coupled to the lower end of the screw jack.
[00105]        The lift platform (120) of the lift assembly (100) is vertically moveable along the
parallel rails (110) in a linear direction between the lowered position and the elevated position.
In the elevated position, the lift platform (120) rests adjacent the work platform (920) of the
elevated work platform (900) in an edge-to-edge manner.
[00106]        The lift platform (120) has a rectangular shape and includes an upper surface, an
opposed lower surface, a work platform facing edge, an opposed outer edge and opposed side
edges.
[00107]        The lift platform (120) is formed of a solid steel panel.
[00108]        Referring briefly to Figure 2, the lift platform (120) includes a sidewall (240) extending
upwardly from each of the edges. Moreover, the lift platform (120) includes a side rail (250)
extending upwardly from and along an outer surface of the sidewall (240). The side rail (250)
extends about and above the opposed side edges of the lift platform (120) and together with the
sidewall (240) assists in preventing a load from falling off the lift platform (120) when moving
between the lowered and elevated positions.
[00109]        As shown, the side rail (250) includes a lift access gate (252) located above the outer
edge of the lift platform (120).      Like the safety access gate (924; shown in Figure 1), the lift
access gate (252) is pivotable between open and closed position to control external access to
the lift platform (120), particularly when the lift platform (120) is not in the lowered position. The

                                                    14
lift access gate (252) includes a latch or locking mechanism (254) to prevent the gate (252) from
being inadvertently opened.
[00110]        Referring back to Figure 1, the lift platform (120) is slidably mounted to the two
parallel rails (110) extending along a height of the base (910) of the elevated work platform (900)
so that the lift platform (120) can slide between the lowered and elevated positions.
[00111]        As indicated, the rails (110) extend longitudinally along the height of the base (910).
Each rail (110) is of tubular construction and has a rectangular cross-section. Each rail (110)
includes an inner surface (112), an opposed outer surface (114) and opposed side surfaces
(116). The rails (110) are joined to the base (910) of the elevated work platform (900) using
conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical fasteners.
[00112]        The lift platform (120) is slidably mounted to each rail (110) by a slide mounting
portion (310).
[00113]        Referring to Figure 3A, each slide mounting portion (310) includes a U-shaped
bracket coupled to the lift platform (120) and sized and shaped to extend outwardly past a
corresponding rail (110) to which it is slidably mounted.
[00114]        The U-shaped bracket is configured to fit around a corresponding rail (110). The
bracket includes a base and a pair of opposed side wings which extend outwardly from opposed
sides of the base. The bracket includes a first roller (312; not visible) associated with the base
of the bracket and configured to roll along an outer surface (114) of the corresponding rail (110)
and a second roller (312) extending between distal ends of the opposed side wings and
configured to roll along an inner surface (112) of the corresponding rail (110). The second roller
(312) is detachable to enable the slide mounting portion (310) associated with the lift platform
(120) to be hooked on and off a respective rail (110).
[00115]        Each slide mounting portion (310) is joined to lower surface and/or a side edge of
the lift platform (120) using conventional welding techniques and/or with one or more mechanical
fasteners.
[00116]        Referring to Figure 3B, the lift assembly (100) includes a drive mechanism for driving
the lift platform (120; not shown) between the lowered and elevated positions. As shown and
indicated above, the drive mechanism is mounted to an underside of the work platform (920)
and includes the winch (130) having a drive wheel and a drive chain (132) extending between
the drive wheel and the lift platform (120; not shown).
[00117]        The drive mechanism includes an air compressor for providing pressurised air for

                                                  15
powering the winch (130). The air compressor is electrically powered.
[00118]       As shown, the drive mechanism further includes a storage container (134) for storing
portions of the drive chain (132) that have been wound in by the drive wheel of the winch (130).
[00119]       Referring again to Figure 3A, the drive chain (132) is coupled to the lift platform (120)
at or near the work platform facing edge.
[00120]       A method of using the lift assembly (100) to raise a load up to the work platform (920)
of an elevated work platform (900) will now be described with reference to Figures 1, 2, 3A and
3B.
[00121]       Referring to Figure 1, the method includes an initial step of applying the brakes on
one or more of the swivel casters (940) to park the elevated work platform (900) including the lift
assembly (100) in a desired location.
[00122]       Once parked, the stabilizer feet (950) are then extended downwards relative to the
base (910) to engage the support surface and stabilize the elevated work platform (900) in the
desired location.
[00123]       Referring to Figure 2, a user can then unlatch the latch or locking mechanism (254)
and open the lift access gate (252) so that the lift platform (120) can be loaded.
[00124]       Once loaded, the lift access gate (252) can again be closed and latched or locked
with the latch or locking mechanism (254).
[00125]       Referring to Figure 3B, the drive mechanism and air compressor are then activated
to power the winch (130) and drive wheel so that the drive chain (132) is wound in by the drive
wheel and the lift platform (120) is raised to the elevated position.
[00126]       Referring again to Figure 1, once the lift platform (120) has been raised to the
elevated position, the safety access gate (924) is unlatched or unlocked to provide access to the
lift platform (120) from the work platform (920) so that the load can be unloaded.
[00127]       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises'and 'comprise'include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[00128]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention.                   Thus, the

                                                 16
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00129]      In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of
its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                   17
CLAIMS
1.        A lift assembly for use with an elevated work platform having a base and a work platform
supported above a support surface by the base, said lift assembly including:
         one or more rails extending at least partially along a height of the base between the
support surface and the work platform;
         a lift platform for supporting and moving a load between a lowered position adjacent the
support surface and an elevated position adjacent the work platform, said lift platform configured
to be slidably mounted to the one or more rails; and
         a drive mechanism for driving movement of the lift platform between the lowered and
elevated positions, said drive mechanism including a winch having a drive spool or drive wheel
mounted to one of the lift platform and the base and a drive line extending between the drive
spool or drive wheel and the other of the lift platform and the base, wherein said drive spool or
drive wheel is pneumatically powered and configured to wind in and out the drive line to move
the lift platform between the lowered and elevated positions.
2.        The lift assembly of claim 1, wherein the drive line is a chain.
3.        The lift assembly of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the drive mechanism includes an air
compressor for powering the winch and drive spool or drive wheel.
4.        An elevated work platform having the lift assembly as defined in any one of claims 1 to
3.
5.        A method of moving a load between a support surface and an elevated platform of an
elevated work platform having the lift assembly as defined in any one of claims 1 to 3, said
method including:
          loading the load to be moved atop the lift platform; and
         slidably moving the lift platform to a desired position selected from a lowered position
adjacent the support surface and an elevated position adjacent the work platform.
Date: 17 January 2018

                                         1/3
<removed-date>
                                                                  900
<removed-apn>
                                   920
                      922
                                                                 914
                                                                 912
              924
                910
                132                                                      930
                                                                   116
                                                           110
                                                     112
                       120                     114
               100
                      310    940               950
                                     Figure 1

                          2/3
<removed-date>
                                     132
<removed-apn>
                    900
                    252
                    254
                                           250
                    240
              100
                                           120
                          Figure 2

                            <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                     900
32   900
                                         920
           112
                 100
           310
           312
                                         130         3/3
                                         134
                                         132
                       Figure 3B

