       NETWORK CONNECTIVITY METHODS AND SYSTEMS
                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Methods and systems are provided for connecting an electronic device to a network. In
some situations, the electronic device connects to a first network provider and pings a first server
having a static internet protocol address and a second server having a dedicated uniform resource
locator. If the electronic device receives a response from the first and second server, the
electronic device maintains its connection to the first network provider. Otherwise, the electronic
device connects to a second network provider and pings the first and second servers.
                                                     47

                                                    1
                  NETWORK CONNECTIVITY METHODS AND SYSTEMS
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014225907, filed on 4 March 2014, the contents of which are hereby incorporated in its
entirety.
[0001 a] A computer network is a collection of computers and devices interconnected by
communications channels that facilitate communications. A computer network may allow
sharing of resources and information among interconnected devices. A network may include the
Internet, an intranet, and the extranet.
[0002]    A local area network (LAN) is typically a small network constrained in a small
geographic area. A metropolitan area network (MAN) is typically a network constrained to
metropolitan area, such as a city. A wide area network (WAN) is typically a network that covers
a large geographic area. Wireless LANs are typically the wireless equivalents of LANs and
WANs.
[0003]    Networks may be interconnected to allow communication with a variety of different
kinds of media, including twisted-pair copper wire cable, coaxial cable, optical fiber, power lines
and various wireless technologies. A network may include routers and routing protocols.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]    In an aspect of the invention, computer-implemented methods for testing network
connectivity for a network device comprise connecting to a network provider; pinging a first
server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the network provider; pinging
a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with the aid of the network
provider; and determining whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider based on
whether a response was received by said network device from said first server and/or whether a
response was received by said network device from said second server. In an embodiment,
determining whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider is based on whether a
response was received by said network device from said first server and whether a response was
received by said network device from said second server.

                                                la
[0005]   In some situations, said computer-implemented methods further comprise connecting to
another network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to the another network provider, cost to
transmit information with the aid of the another network provider and an upload rate of the
another network provider. In an embodiment, the at least one criterion is location-based, time
based or bandwidth-based.

 [0006] In an embodiment, pinging said first server comprises sending a ping packet to the first
server. In another embodiment, pinging said second server comprises sending a ping packet to
the second server. In another embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if
the first server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the first server and/or
the second server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the second server.
In another embodiment, said computer-implemented methods further comprise connecting to
another network provider if the first server does not respond to the network device in response to
said pinging the first server and/or the second server does not respond to the network device in
response to said pinging the second server. In another embodiment, the network provider is
selected from the group consisting of a wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular
network router, radiofrequency (RF) device and optoelectronic device.
 [0007] In some situations, said computer-implemented methods further comprise connecting to
an additional network provider; pinging the first server with the aid of the additional network
provider; pinging the second server with the aid of the additional network provider; and
determining whether to maintain connectivity to the additional network provider based on
whether a response was received by the network device from the first server and/or whether a
response was received by the network device from the second server. In an embodiment,
determining whether to maintain connectivity to the additional network provider is based on
whether a response was received by the network device from the first server and whether a
response was received by the network device from the second server. In another embodiment,
connecting to said second network provider comprises terminating connectivity to said network
provider.
 [0008] In an embodiment, said network provider is selected from the group consisting of a
wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router, radiofrequency (RF)
device and optoelectronic device. In another embodiment, the first and second servers are pinged
simultaneously.
 [0009] In some embodiments, computer-implemented methods for testing network connectivity
for a network device comprise connecting to a network provider; directing a first data packet
from the network device to a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address, wherein
the first data packet is directed with the aid of the network provider; directing a second data
packet from the network device to a second server having a static uniform resource locator
(URL), wherein the second data packet is directed with the aid of the network provider; and
determining whether to maintain connectivity to the network provider based upon a comparison
of one or more data packets received by the network device from the first server and the second
server. In an embodiment, the first server comprises a domain name system (DNS) server. In
                                                        2

another embodiment, the first data packet is an echo request packet. In another embodiment, the
second data packet is an echo request packet. In another embodiment, directing said first data
packet from said network device to said first server comprises pinging the first server. In another
embodiment, directing said second data packet from said network device to said second server
comprises pinging the second server. In another embodiment, connectivity to the network
provider is maintained if a first received data packet of said one or more data packets received by
the network device is the same as the first data packet directed to the first server. In another
embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if a second received data packet
of said one or more data packets received by the network device is the same as the second data
packet directed to the second server.
 [0010] In some situations, the computer-implemented methods further comprise receiving a first
received data packet from the first server and/or receiving a second received data packet from the
second server. In an embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if a
checksum of the first received data packet matches a predetermined data packet. In another
embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if a checksum of the second
received data packet matches a predetermined data packet. In an embodiment, the computer
implemented methods further comprise connecting to another network provider if the first
received data packet is different from the first data packet and/or the second received data packet
is different from the second data packet.
 [0011] In some situations, the computer-implemented methods further comprise connecting to an
another network provider; directing the first data packet from the network device to the first
server, wherein the first data packet is directed with the aid of the another network provider;
directing the second data packet from the network device to the second server, wherein the
second data packet is directed with the aid of the another network provider; and determining
whether to maintain connectivity to the other network provider based upon a comparison of one
or more data packets received by the network device from the first server and the second server.
In an embodiment, connecting to said another network provider comprises terminating
connectivity to said network provider.
 [0012] In an embodiment, connecting to said network provider comprises locating said network
provider. In an embodiment, said network provider is selected from the group consisting of a
wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router, radiofrequency (RF)
device and optoelectronic device.
 [0013] In an embodiment, said computer-implemented methods further comprise determining
whether to maintain connectivity to the network provider based on at least one criterion selected
from the group consisting of bandwidth, cost to maintain connectivity to the network provider,
                                                       3

cost to transmit information with the aid of the network provider, the download rate and the
upload rate. In an embodiment, the at least one criterion is location-based, time based or
bandwidth-based.
 [0014] In some situations, said computer-implemented methods further comprise connecting to
another network provider based on at least one criterion selected from the group consisting of the
bandwidth of the other network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to the other network
provider, cost to transmit information with the aid of the other network provider, the download
rate of the other network provider and the upload rate of the other network provider. In an
embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained upon comparison of a download
rate or an upload rate to a predetermined limit. In an embodiment, the network device is selected
from the group consisting a personal computer (PC), tablet PC, slate PC, server, mainframe and
Smart phone.
 [0015] In some embodiments, computer-implemented methods for selecting a network provider
for a network device comprise connecting to the network provider; pinging, with the aid of the
network provider, a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address and a second server
having a static uniform resource locator (URL); and terminating a connection to said network
provider based upon any one network termination condition selected from the group consisting of
(a) a response was not received by the network device from said first server and/or said second
server after said pinging, (b) a network bandwidth (or latency, performance or cost-related
factors) of another network provider is higher than a network bandwidth of said network
provider, (c) a network cost of another network provider is lower than a network cost of said
network provider, (d) network access provided by another network provider is more robust than
network access provided by said network provider, (e) connectivity between the network device
and another network provider is via wired connection and connectivity between the network
device and said network provider is via wireless connection and (f) another network provider is
in closer proximity to the network device than said network provider. In an embodiment, the
connection to said network provider is terminated based upon at least any two network
termination conditions selected from said group. In another embodiment, the connection to said
network provider is terminated based upon at least any three network termination conditions
selected from said group. In another embodiment, the computer-implemented method further
comprises connecting to an another network provider. In another embodiment, connectivity
between the network device and the first network provider is via a wired or wireless network
access point. In another embodiment, the first and second servers are pinged simultaneously.
 [0016] In some embodiments, computer-implemented methods for establishing network
connectivity for a network device comprise the steps of (a) connecting to a first network
                                                       4

provider; (b) pinging, with the aid of the first network provider, a first server and a second server;
and (c) selecting a second network provider over said first network provider if said second
network provider meets a criterion unmet by said first network provider. In an embodiment, said
selecting is in response to said pinging. In another embodiment, said criterion is a location
based, time based or bandwidth-based criterion. In another embodiment, said first server has a
static internet protocol (IP) address. In another embodiment, said second server has a static
uniform resource locator (URL). In another embodiment, said criterion is selected from the
group consisting of (a) whether a response was received by the network device from said first
server and/or said second server after said pinging, (b) whether a network bandwidth of said
second network provider is higher than a network bandwidth of said first network provider, (c)
whether a network cost of said second network provider is lower than a network cost of said first
network provider, (d) whether network access provided by said second network provider is more
robust than network access provided by said first network provider, (e) whether connectivity
between said network device and said second network provider is via wired connection and
connectivity between said network device and said first network provider is via wireless
connection, and (f) whether said second network provider is in closer proximity to the network
device than said first network provider.
 [0017] In some embodiments, computer-implemented method for establishing network
connectivity for a network device comprise connecting to a first network provider; locating a
second network provider, the second network provider having a higher ranked order of
preference than the first network provider based on one or more predetermined network
connectivity criteria; and connecting to the second network provider. In an embodiment, said
locating comprises pinging a first server and a second server. In another embodiment, said first
server has a static internet protocol (IP) address. In another embodiment, said second server has
a static uniform resource locator (URL). In another embodiment, said one or more
predetermined network connectivity criteria are selected from the group consisting of network
bandwidth, network cost and proximity of the network device to a network provider. In another
embodiment, said one or more predetermined network connectivity criteria are location-based,
time based or bandwidth-based.
 [0018] In some embodiments, one or more steps of the methods provided herein are performed
with the aid of a processor. In an example, the network device is connected to the first network
provider with the aid of a processor. In some embodiments, any of pinging, selecting and
locating are performed with the aid of one or more processors, which may be located in network
devices provided herein or remotely, such as in remote computer systems.
                                                       5

 [0019] In another aspect of the invention, systems for establishing network connectivity for a
network device comprise a network connectivity controller for locating network providers, the
network connectivity controller having a processor for executing machine-readable code
configured to: establish a connection to a network provider; ping a first server having a static
internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the network provider; ping a second server having a
static uniform resource locator (URL) with the aid of the network provider; and determine
whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider based on whether a response was
received by said network device from said first server and/or whether a response was received by
said network device from said second server. The system further comprises a graphical user
interface (GUI) for displaying a list of network providers to a user, the list of network providers
generated with the aid of one or more network connectivity criteria. In an embodiment, said one
or more network connectivity criteria are selected from the group consisting of a bandwidth of
another network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to another network provider, cost to
transmit information with the aid of another network provider, a download rate of another
network provider and an upload rate of another network provider. In another embodiment, said
one or more network-connectivity criteria are location-based, time based or bandwidth-based. In
another embodiment, said machine-readable code is configured to determine whether to maintain
connectivity to said network provider based on whether a response was received by said network
device from said first server and whether a response was received by said network device from
said second server.
 [0020] In another aspect of the invention, computer-readable mediums comprise code
implementing methods, the methods comprising establishing a connection to a network provider;
pinging a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the network
provider; pinging a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with the aid of
the network provider; and determining whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider
based on whether a response was received by said network device from said first server and/or
whether a response was received by said network device from said second server. In some cases,
the connection to the network provider is established with the aid of a processor.
 [0021] In a still further embodiment, a device is provided comprising: a plurality of network
connectivity interfaces on one or more components in the device, wherein at least two of said
network connectivity interfaces use different connectivity technologies; a programmable
processor programmed to perform: a) a first network connectivity test using a first of said
network connectivity interfaces to verify end-to-end connectivity between the device and another
device on another network; b) a second network connectivity test using the second of said
network connectivity interfaces to verify end-to-end connectivity between said device and
                                                       6

another device on another network; determining which network connection to maintain based on
status of each of the network connectivity tests; wherein said network connectivity test is run at
the beginning of network connectivity and periodically after network connection is established.
 [0022] Optionally, the network connectivity test comprises pinging a first server having a static
internet protocol (IP) address with a request sent from first of the network connectivity
interfaces; pinging a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with a request
sent from the first of the network connectivity interfaces; and determining whether to maintain
connectivity to said network provider based on whether a response was received by said network
device from said first server and/or whether a response was received by said network device from
said second server. This can be repeated with commands from the second of the network
connectivity interfaces. The second of the network connectivity interfaces can run the same test
or a different test not based on pinging. Optionally, the first connectivity test comprises running
a command in a protocol in OSI layer three. Optionally, the first connectivity test comprises
running a command in a protocol in OSI layer seven.
 [0023] In one non-limiting example, a computer-implemented method is provided for testing
network connectivity for a network device. In one embodiment, the method comprises
connecting to a network provider through the use of at least one network connectivity interface
on the network device; pinging a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with
the aid of the network provider; pinging a second server having a static uniform resource locator
(URL) with the aid of the network provider; and determining whether to establish network
maintain connectivity to said with another network connectivity interface on the network device
provider based on whether a response was received by said network device from said first server
and/or whether a response was received by said network device from said second server, wherein
said network connectivity interface operates using a communication protocol different from a
communication protocol of said another network connectivity interface.
 [0024] It should be understood one or more of the following features may be adapted for use
with one or more of the embodiments herein. For example, one embodiment of the method may
have at least one of network connectivity interface and another network connectivity interface
that is a non-cellular, wireless data interface while the other is a cellular data interface.
Optionally, the method comprises establishing connectivity with said another network
connectivity interface comprises connecting to an another network provider based on at least one
criterion selected from the group consisting of a bandwidth of the another network provider, cost
to maintain connectivity to the another network provider, cost to transmit information with the
aid of the another network provider, a download rate of the another network provider and an
upload rate of the another network provider. Optionally, at least one criterion is location-based,
                                                       7

time based or bandwidth-based. Optionally, the data packet used for pinging the first server
comprises a ping packet. Optionally, the data packet used for pinging the second server
comprises a ping packet. Optionally, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if the
first server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the first server and/or the
second server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the second server.
Optionally, the method comprises connecting to another network provider if the first server does
not respond to the network device in response to said pinging the first server and/or the second
server does not respond to the network device in response to said pinging the second server.
Optionally, the network provider is selected from the group consisting of a wireless router,
Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router, radiofrequency (RF) device and
optoelectronic device. Optionally, method comprises connecting to an additional network
provider; pinging the first server with the aid of the additional network provider; pinging the
second server with the aid of the additional network provider; and determining whether to
maintain connectivity to the additional network provider based on whether a response was
received by the network device from the first server and/or whether a response was received by
the network device from the second server. Optionally, the method comprises determining
whether to maintain connectivity to the additional network provider is based on whether a
response was received by the network device from the first server and whether a response was
received by the network device from the second server. Optionally, connecting to the second
network provider comprises terminating connectivity to said network provider. Optionally, the
network provider is selected from the group consisting of a wireless router, Bluetooth router,
wired router, cellular network router, radiofrequency (RF) device and optoelectronic device.
Optionally, the first and second servers are pinged simultaneously.
 [0025] In another non-limiting example, a computer-implemented method is provided for
selecting a network provider for a network device. The method comprises connecting to the
network provider through at least one network connectivity interface of the network device;
pinging, with the aid of the network provider, a first server having a static internet protocol (IP)
address and a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL); and determining
whether to establish a connection with another network connectivity interface of the network
device to another network provider based upon any one network termination condition selected
from the group consisting of (a) a response was not received by the network device from said
first server and/or said second server after said pinging, (b) a network bandwidth of another
network provider is higher than a network bandwidth of said network provider, (c) a network cost
of another network provider is lower than a network cost of said network provider, (d) network
access provided by another network provider is more robust than network access provided by
                                                       8

said network provider, (e) connectivity between the network device and another network
provider is via wired connection and connectivity between the network device and said network
provider is via wireless connection and (f) another network provider is in closer proximity to the
network device than said network provider, wherein said network connectivity interface operates
differently from said another network connectivity interface.
 [0026] Additional aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become readily apparent
to those skilled in this art from the following detailed description, wherein only illustrative
embodiments of the present disclosure are shown and described. As will be realized, the present
disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details are capable of
modifications in various obvious respects, all without departing from the disclosure.
Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as
restrictive.
                               INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 [0027] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0028] The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims.
A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained
by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in
which the principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
 [0029] FIG. 1 shows a method for connecting a network-enabled device (also "network device"
herein) to a network, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
 [0030] FIG. 2 shows a method for connecting a network device to a network, in accordance with
an embodiment of the invention;
 [0031] FIG. 3 shows a method for generating a ranked list of network providers, in accordance
with an embodiment of the invention;
 [0032] FIG. 4 shows a system having an electronic device and network providers, in accordance
with an embodiment of the invention;
 [0033] FIG. 5 shows a functional block diagram illustration of general purpose computer
hardware platforms, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
 [0034] FIG. 6 shows a first network-enabled device communicating with a second network
enabled device, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
                                                       9

[0035] FIG. 7 shows one non-limiting example of a system according to one embodiment
described herein.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0036] While various embodiments of the invention have been shown and described herein, it
will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example
only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions may occur to those skilled in the art
without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the
embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.
[0037] The term "network," as used herein, refers to a local area network (LAN), metropolitan
area network (MAN), or wide area network (WAN). In some situations, a network includes the
Internet. A network includes wired and/or wireless components.
[0038] The term "router," as used herein, refers to a device that forwards or relays data packets
across one or more networks.
[0039] The term "network provider," as used herein, refers to one or more computer systems or
devices for providing network connectivity to, or facilitating network connectivity for, an
electronic device. In some situations, a network provider is a router or a plurality of routers.
[0040] The term "electronic device," as used herein, refers to a computer device configured to
connect to a network. In some cases, an electronic device is a portable electronic device.
Examples of electronic devices include Smart phones (e.g., iPhone@, Android@-enabled phone,
HTC@ phone, Blackberry@), laptops, tablet personal computers (e.g., iPad@), and desktop
computers (e.g., workstations, servers), cameras, gaming stations (e.g., Sony@ PlayStation®,
Microsoft@ Xbox), televisions, music players (e.g., MP3 players, radios, CD players) and video
players (e.g., DVD players). Electronic devices may be included in other components. For
instance, an electronic device may be part of a residential or commercial building, vehicle, or
aircraft.
[0041] The term "network-enabled device," as used herein, refers to an electronic device
configured to connect to, reconnect to, and communicate with one or more electronic devices
with the aid of a network. In some example, a network-enabled device (also "network device"
herein) includes a Smart phone and personal computer (PC). As an example, a network-enabled
device is a desktop personal computer (PC), laptop PC, mainframe computer, set-top box,
personal digital assistant, cellular telephone, media player, web pad, tablet PC, slate PC, or Smart
phone. In some situations, a network-enabled device includes a network interface for facilitating
network connectivity. A network interface includes, for example, an Ethernet interface for
connectivity to a network through a wired connection, or a wireless interface for connectivity to a
wireless provider that in turn provides connectivity to a network. A network-enabled device may
                                                      10

include multiple wireless interfaces. A wireless provider may include one or more of a Wi-Fi (or
WiFi) router and one or more channel access methods. In some cases, a channel access method
is selected from frequency division multiple access (FDMA), wavelength division multiple
access (WDMA), orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA), based on
Orthogonal, frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM), single-carrier FDMA (SC-FDMA) (or
linearly-precoded OFDMA (LP-OFDMA)), time-division multiple access (TDMA), code
division multiple access (CDMA) (or spread spectrum multiple access (SSMA)), direct-sequence
CDMA (DS-CDMA), frequency-hopping CDMA (FH-CDMA), orthogonal frequency-hopping
multiple access (OFHMA), multi-carrier code division multiple access (MC-CDMA), space
division multiple access (SDMA), packet mode channel access methods (e.g., contention based
random multiple access methods), duplexing methods (e.g., time division duplex (TDD),
frequency division duplex (FDD)), global system for mobile communications (GSM), GSM with
GPRS packet, bluetooth packet mode communication, IEEE 802.1 lb wireless local area
networks (WLAN's), high performance radio local area network (HIPERLAN/2) wireless
networks, and G.hn. A wireless provider may be configured for second-generation cellular
wireless telephone technology (2G), third generation mobile telecommunications (3G), fourth
generation cellular wireless standards (4G) or LTE Advanced (LTE) communication standard.
[0042] A network-enabled device may include multiple interfaces. In some cases, a network
enabled device includes an Ethernet interface and wireless interfaces for connectivity to a WiFi
router, CDMA provider and/or GSM provider.
[0043] The term "static," as used in the context of network parameters herein, refers to a network
parameter that does not change during a finite period of time, such as a set or predetermined
period of time. A static internet protocol (IP) address is an address that does not change within a
predetermined (or set) period of time. In some situations, a static IP address is a dedicated IP
address. A static uniform resource locator (URL) is a network (or web) address that does not
change within a predetermined period of time. In some situations, a static URL is a dedicated
URL, such as a URL dedicated to an entity (e.g., business, individual). A static URL may be
associated with one or more servers of the entity.
[0044] The term "connectivity," as used herein, refers to a network-enabled electronic device
being in network communication with a network provider, such as a router (e.g., wired router,
wireless router). A network-enabled device has connectivity to a network provider if the
network-enabled device is able to communicate with the network provider, such as ping the
network provider or send data (e.g., data packets) to or receive data from the network provider.
[0045] There are methods currently available for connecting an electronic device, such as a
portable electronic device, to a network. However, as recognized herein, such methods have
                                                     11

limitations. For example, in certain cases methods for connecting a portable electronic device to
a network do not establish the most optimum connection, which may be assessed on the basis of
network cost, network bandwidth and proximity to a router, for example. As another example,
current methods for establishing network connectivity may not continually optimize network
connectivity in view of changing conditions, such as proximity to a router and network
bandwidth. Recognized herein is the need for improved methods for connecting an electronic
device to a network.
 [0046] It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive, as claimed. It
may be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a",
"an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for
example, reference to "a material" may include mixtures of materials, reference to "a compound"
may include multiple compounds, and the like.
 [0047] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of
"or" includes "and/or" (i.e., "or" includes both the conjunctive and disjunctive) unless explicitly
stated otherwise, or unless the context expressly dictates otherwise.
 [0048] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of
"in" includes "in" and "on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 [0049] References cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, except to
the extent that they conflict with teachings explicitly set forth in this specification.
 [0050] In this specification and in the claims which follow, reference will be made to a number
of terms which shall be defined to have the following meanings:
 [0051] "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described circumstance may or
may not occur, so that the description includes instances where the circumstance occurs and
instances where it does not. For example, if a device optionally contains a feature for a sample
collection unit, this means that the sample collection unit may or may not be present, and, thus,
the description includes both structures wherein a device possesses the sample collection unit and
structures wherein sample collection unit is not present.
 [0052] As used herein, the terms "substantial" means more than a minimal or insignificant
amount; and "substantially" means more than a minimally or insignificantly. Thus, for example,
the phrase "substantially different", as used herein, denotes a sufficiently high degree of
difference between two numeric values such that one of skill in the art would consider the
difference between the two values to be of statistical significance within the context of the
characteristic measured by said values. Thus, the difference between two values that are
substantially different from each other is typically greater than about 10%, and may be greater
                                                      12

than about 20%, preferably greater than about 30%, preferably greater than about 40%,
preferably greater than about 50% as a function of the reference value or comparator value.
 [0053] Methods provided herein enable a network-enabled electronic device to connect and
reconnect to a network and, in some cases, optimize or improve its network connectivity. In
certain cases, methods provided herein enable a network-enabled electronic device to connect to
a network that is optimum in view of one or more connectivity criteria (or rules) provided herein.
In other cases, if an optimum connectivity is not established, methods provided herein enable a
network-enabled electronic device to continually optimize network connectivity in view of
changing conditions.
Network connectivity methods
 [0054] In an aspect of the invention, a method for establishing network connectivity for a
network-enabled device comprises the network-enabled electronic device (also "network-enabled
device" herein) connecting to a network provider. Next, the network-enabled device pings a first
server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the network provider. The
network-enabled device also pings a second server having a static uniform resource locator
(URL) with the aid of the network provider. The first and second servers may be pinged
simultaneously or sequentially (i.e., the first after the second or the second after the first). Next,
the network-enabled device determines whether to maintain connectivity to the network provider
based on whether the network-enabled device receives a response from the first server and/or
whether the network-enabled device receives a response from the second server. The response in
each case may be a confirmation that the first and second servers were pinged by the network
enabled device.
 [0055] In some cases, upon pinging the second server having the static (or dedicated) URL (e.g.,
"Google.com"), a domain name system (DNS) server in communication with the network
provider resolves the URL to an IP address of the second server. A ping packet is then sent to
the second server (at the resolved IP address). A response is generated by the second server and
sent to the network provider and subsequently to the network-enabled device. The lack of a
response from the second server may indicate that the second server is malfunctioning (or
unavailable or unreachable) or that the DNS server in communication with the network provider
is malfunctioning. In such a case, the network-enabled device may ping a third server having a
dedicated URL (e.g., "Yahoo.com"). The DNS server in communication with the network
provider resolves the URL to an IP address of the third server. A ping packet is then sent to the
third server (at the resolved IP address). If a response is not received by the network-enabled
device from the third server, then the network-enabled device may concluded that the DNS
                                                        13

server in communication with the network provider is malfunctioning. In such a case, the
network-enabled device connects to another network provider and the steps above are repeated.
 [0056] In some situations, the network provider is selected from the group consisting of a
wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router, radiofrequency (RF)
device and optoelectronic device. The first server has a static IP address (e.g.,
"123.123.123.123") and the second server has a static URL (e.g., "Google.com"). In some cases,
the static URL is updated, such as upon a network update.
 [0057] In some cases, the first server is identified by a user-determined IP address, i.e., an IP
address that is determined or provided by a user operating the network-enabled device. In such a
case, the user may input the IP address of the first server into a network configuration utility of
the network-enabled device, for example. Similarly, in some cases the second server is
designated by a URL that is user-determined. For example, in the network configuration utility
the user provides a string that defines the URL of the second server.
 [0058] In an embodiment, the first server and second server are pinged simultaneously. In
another embodiment, the first server is pinged before the second server. In another embodiment,
the second server is pinged before the first server. Pinging the first and second servers involves
sending (or directing) a ping packet from the network-enabled device to each of the first and
second servers. In another embodiment, only the first or second server is pinged. In such a case,
the response after pinging the first or second server is assessed to determine whether to maintain
connectivity to the network provider.
 [0059] In some embodiments, additional servers are pinged. In an embodiment, a third server
having a static IP address or dedicated (or static) URL is pined. In another embodiment, at least
2, or 3, or 4, or 5, or 6, or7, or 8, or 9, or 10, or 20, or 30, or 40, or 50, or 60, or 70, or 80, or 90,
or 100 other servers are pinged, each of which has a static IP address and/or dedicated URL.
 [0060] In some situations, when the first server is pinged, the network-enabled device sends a
ping packet to the first server. Similarly, in some situations, when the second server is pinged,
the network-enabled device sends a ping packet to the second server. The ping packet may
include one or more predetermined characters or character strings (e.g., "Hello world"). In some
cases, the ping packet includes a file with machine-encoded data, such as a media file (e.g.,
encoded media file).
 [0061] In some situations, if a response is not received from either or both of the first server and
the second server, then the network-enabled device connects to another network provider (e.g.,
router). The network-enabled device then pings the first and second server, as described above.
 [0062] In some situations, if a response is received from one or both of the first and second
servers, then the network-enabled device connects to a second network provider based on at least
                                                          14

one predetermined network connectivity criterion ("network connectivity criterion") selected
from the group consisting of the bandwidth of the other network provider, cost to maintain
connectivity to the other network provider, cost to transmit information with the aid of the other
network provider, the download rate of the other network provider and the upload rate of the
other network provider. For instance, the network-enabled device connects to the second
network provider if the second network provider enables a higher network bandwidth than the
first network provider. In such a case, all connections to first network providers may be
terminated. In some situations, the network-enabled device continues to determine whether other
network providers may provide a network connectivity that is improved with respect to the
second network provider based on one or more network connectivity criteria (or rules) provided
herein.
[0063] In some embodiments, the network-enabled device maintains connectivity to a network
provider if, in response to pinging the first server and the second server, the first server responds
to the network-enabled device and/or the second server responds to the network-enabled device.
In an embodiment, connectivity is maintained if the first server and the second server both
respond to the network-enabled device in response to the network-enabled device pinging the
first and second server. In another embodiment, connectivity is maintained if either one of the
first server and the second server responds to the network-enabled device. In an example, a
response from the first server is sufficient for the network-enabled device to retain connectivity
to the first network provider. In some cases, however, the network-enabled device connects to
another network provider if the first server does not respond to the network-enabled device
and/or the second server does not respond to the network-enabled device.
[0064] The network-enabled device may connect to another network provider even if the first
server and second server respond to the network-enabled device but one or more network
connectivity criteria are not satisfied. In an example, the network-enabled device connects to
another network provider if the network bandwidth is below a predetermined limit. In some
cases, the network-enabled device connects to another network provider if the network
bandwidth is below about 100 kbit/s, or 500 kbit/s, or 1 Mbit/s, or 2 Mbit/s, or 5 Mbit/s, or 10
Mbit/s. In an embodiment, the network-enabled device connects to another network provider if
the network bandwidth is below a predetermined limit, such as a user-defined limit.
[0065] In an example, if the first server and/or second server do not respond to the network
enabled device, or if one or more network connectivity criteria (e.g., network bandwidth above a
predetermined limit) are not met, the network-enabled device connects to a second network
provider and sequentially or simultaneously pings the first server and second server with the aid
of the second network provider.
                                                       15

 [0066] In some cases, connecting to the second network provider comprises terminating
connectivity to other network providers. Next, the network-enabled device determines whether
to maintain connectivity to the second network provider based on whether a response is received
by the network device from the first server and/or whether a response is received by the network
device from the second server.
 [0067] In some situations, if the network-enabled device does not receive a response from the
second server, the network-enabled device determines that it is not in network communication
with a domain name system (DNS) server. This may be due to a malfunctioning DNS server, for
example. In some situations, the first server is a domain name system (DNS) server.
 [0068] In some situations, the second server includes one or more servers for hosting the URL.
In an example, the second server is a dedicated server for hosting the URL.
 [0069] FIG. 1 shows a method 100 for connecting a network-enabled device (also "network
device" herein) to a network, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In a first step
 105, the network device connects to a network provider, such as a wired or wireless network
router. Next, in a second step 110, the network device pings a first server having a static IP
address. In a third step 115, the network device pings a second server having a static URL.
Next, in a fourth step 120, the network device determines whether a response (e.g., ping packet)
was received from the first server and the second server. If a response was not received from the
first server and the second server, then in a fifth step 125 the network device connects to another
network provider, and the method 100 is repeated. If a response was received from the first
server and the second server, then in an optional sixth step 130 the network device determines
whether one or more network connectivity factors provided herein, such as, e.g., bandwidth,
upload rate, and/or download rate, are met. If the one or more network connectivity factors are
not met, then the network device connects to another network provider and the method 100 is
repeated. However, if the one or more network connectivity factors are met, then in a seventh
step 135 the network device maintains the connection (e.g., wired connection, wireless
connection) to the network provider. A user operating the network device will then use the
network, as desired, such as, for example, to navigate the World Wide Web or send and receive
electronic mails.
 [0070] The network device may connect to another network provider using the same network
interface (e.g., WiFi interface) or using another network interface. In an example, in step 105 the
network device connects to a WiFi router using a first wireless interface (e.g., WiFi interface) of
the network device. Following step 130, the network device connects to a GSM or CDMA
provider using a second wireless interface configured to enable the network device to
                                                       16

communicate with the GSM or CDMA provider, and the method 100 is repeated using the
second wireless interface.
 [0071] As an alternative to step 120, the network device determines whether a response was
received by the second server having the static URL. In such a case, if a response is received,
then the network device maintains the connection to the network provider. The response from
the first server in such a case may be used for various network diagnostic purposes, such as
upload rate and download rate.
 [0072] As an alternative to or in conjunction with the network-enabled device pinging the first
and second servers, establishing connectivity to a network provider includes directing data
packets from the network-enabled device to the first server and the second server. In some
situations, data packets may be used in place of or in conjunction with ping packets.
 [0073] In some embodiments, a method for establishing network connectivity for a network
device comprises connecting to a network provider and directing a first data packet to a first
server having a static internet protocol (IP) address. The first data packet is directed with the aid
of the network provider. That is, the network provider brings the network device in
communication with the first server. Next, the network device directs a second data packet to a
second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL). The second data packet is directed
with the aid of the network provider. That is, the network provider brings the network device in
communication with the second server. The first and second data packets are directed to the first
and second servers, respectively, either sequentially or simultaneously. In some cases the
network device directs the second data packet to the second server before directing the first data
packet to the first server. Next, the network device determines whether to maintain connectivity
to the network provider based upon a comparison of one or more data packets received by the
network device from the first server and the second server. In some cases, the comparison
comprises performing a checksum to determine the similarity between the data packets received
by the network device and the first and second data packets.
 [0074] Next, the network-enabled device determines whether any data packets were received
from the first server and/or second server. In some situations, if no data packet is received by the
network device from the first server or the second server, then the network device terminates the
connection to the network provider and connects to another network provider, if one is available.
A data packet may not be received from the first server and/or the second server for various
reasons, such as, for example, a broken link between the network provider and the first and/or
second servers, a malfunctioning network, poor network integrity, or dysfunctional first and/or
second servers.
                                                      17

 [0075] In some situations, the first server is a domain name system (DNS) server. In an
example, the first data packet and/or the second data packet is an echo request packet.
 [0076] In some situations, the second server includes one or more servers for hosting the URL.
In an example, the second server is a dedicated server for hosting the URL.
 [0077] In some situations, the network-enabled device (also "network device" herein) directs the
first data packet to the first server by first pinging the first server. Upon successfully pinging the
first server, the network device directs the first data packet to the first server. Similarly, the
network device directs the second data packet to the second server by first pinging the second
server. Upon successfully pinging the second server, the network device directs the second data
packet to the second server. The network device then determines various network connectivity
factors based upon the time taken to receive data packets from the first and second servers, the
time taken to upload the first and second data packets to the first and second servers, or whether
received data packets match what was transmitted to the first and second servers.
 [0078] The network device maintains connectivity to the network provider if a first received data
packet of the one or more data packets received by the network device is the same as the first
data packet directed to the first server. In some situations, however, the network device
maintains connectivity if the first received data packet is at least about 1%, or 5%, or 10%, or
 15%, or 2 0%, or 2 5%, or 3 0%, or 3 5%, or 4 0%, or 4 5%, or 50%, or 55%, or 6 0%, or 6 5%, or
70%, or 75% or 80%, or 85%, or 90%, or 95%, or 99% similar to the first data packet. Such
similarity may be assessed by comparing the data packets to one another, such as, for example,
by comparing character strings to one another if the data packets are character strings.
 [0079] Similarly, the network device maintains connectivity to the network provider if a second
received data packet of the one or more data packets received by the network device is the same
as the second data packet directed to the second server. In some situations, however, the network
device maintains connectivity if the second received data packet is at least about 1%, or 5%, or
 10%, or 15%, or 2 0%, or 2 5%, or 3 0%, or 35%, or 4 0%, or 45%, or 50%, or 55%, or 6 0%, or
65%, or 70%, or 75% or 80%, or 85%, or 90%, or 95%, or 99% similar to the second data packet.
 [0080] A connection to the network provider may be maintained if a checksum of the first
received data packet matches a predetermined data packet. In an example, connectivity is
maintained if the first received data packet matches a predetermined string (e.g., "Hello world").
In other situations, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if a checksum of the
second received data packet matches a predetermined data packet. As an alternative,
connectivity to the network provider is maintained if the first data packet matches the first
received data packet and/or the second data packet matches the second received data packet. In
                                                         18

some cases, connectivity is maintained if both the first and second data packets match the first
and second received data packets, respectively.
 [0081] In some situations, if the first received data packet is different from the first data packet
and/or the second received data packet is different from the second data packet, the network
enabled device (also "network device" herein) connects to another network provider. In an
example, the network device searches for, finds and connects to another network provider, such
as another wireless router.
 [0082] One or both of the first and second data packets may be used to determine an upload and
download rate of the network provided by the network provider. In an example, the network
enabled device uses the rate at which the first data packet is uploaded to the first server and
downloaded from the first server and/or a rate at which the second data packet is uploaded to the
second server and downloaded from the second server to determine an upload rate and download
rate, which may be an averaged upload rate and download rate for the network. For example, the
upload rate is averaged using the upload rate(s) to the first and second servers and the download
rate is averaged using the download rate(s) from the first and second servers. This may in turn
enable the network-enabled device to determine whether to maintain connectivity to the network
provider or connect to another network provider.
 [0083] If no network access is provided by the network provider or if network access provided
by the network provider does not meet one or more network connectivity criteria or factors (e.g.,
upload rate, download rate, or network cost), then the network device connects to another
network provider and repeats the methods outlined above. In an example, if the network device
connects to another network provider, the network device directs the first data packet to the first
server and the second data packet to the second server. The first and second data packets are
directed (or sent to) the first and second servers, respectively, with the aid of the other network
provider. In such a case, the network device also determines whether to maintain connectivity to
the other network provider based upon a comparison of one or more data packets received by the
network device from the first server and the second server, as described above.
 [0084] In some cases, upon connecting to another network provider the network device
terminates its connection to other network providers. In other cases, however, the network
device maintains its connection (or connectivity) to one or more other network providers. This
may enable the network device to find and establish improved network connectivity if and when
it becomes available.
 [0085] FIG. 2 shows a method 200 for connecting a network-enabled device (also "network
device" herein) to a network, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In a first step
205, the network device connects to a network provider, such as a wired or wireless network
                                                       19

router. Next, in a second step 210, the network device directs a first data packet to a first server
having a static IP address. In a third step 215, the network device directs a second data packet to
a second server having a static URL. Next, in a fourth step 220, the network device determine
whether any data packets were received from the first server and/or second server. The network
device may continually monitor for any received data packets or monitor at predetermined
intervals, such as ever 1 second, 10 seconds, 30 seconds, 1 minute, 5 minutes, or 10 minutes. In
some cases, if no data packets are received, then in a fifth step 225 the network device connects
to another network provider and the method 200 is repeated. In other cases, if a data packet is
received from at least one of the first server and the second server, then in a sixth step 230 the
network device determines whether the data packet received by the network device is the same as
either the first or second data packet. In an example, if a first received data packet is received by
the network device from the first server and a second received data packet is received by the
network device from the second server, then the network device determines whether the first
received data packet is the same as the first data packet and whether the second received data
packet is the same as the second data packet. If the data packets are not the same, then the
network device connects to another network provider and the method 200 is repeated.
[0086] In an embodiment, connectivity to the network provider is maintained if at least one
received data packet is the same as either the first or second data packet. In another embodiment,
connectivity to the network provider is maintained if the first received data packet from the first
server is the same as the first data packet, and the second received data packet from the second
server is the same as the second data packet.
[0087] In some situations, in a seventh step 235 the network device determines whether one or
more network connectivity factors provided herein, such as, e.g., bandwidth, upload rate, and/or
download rate, are met when the network device accesses the network through the network
provider. In some cases, if the one or more network connectivity factors are not met, then the
network device connects to another network provider and the method 200 is repeated. However,
if the one or more network connectivity factors are met, then in an eighth step 240 the network
device maintains the connection (e.g., wired connection, wireless connection) to the network
provider. A user operating the network device may then use the network, as desired.
[0088] In some embodiments, connecting to a network provider first entails locating the network
provider in a search location. In an embodiment, the search location is a predetermined location
determined by a user of the network-enabled device. The predetermined location may be a
business or residential location, or public location (e.g., park, street). In another embodiment, the
search location is within a predetermined radius from a location of the user. In some situations,
the search location has a radius of at least about 1 meter ("m"), or 2 m, or 3 m, or 4 m, or 5 m, or
                                                      20

6 m, or 7 m, or 8 m, or 9 m, or 10 m, or 20 m, or 30 m, or 40 m, or 50 m, or 60 m, or 70 m, or 80
m, or 90 m, or 100 m, or 200 m, or 300 m, or 400 m, or 500 m, or 600 m, or 700 m, or 800 m, or
900 m, or 1000 m, or 2000 m, or 3000 m, or 4000 m, or 5000 m. In some cases, the search
location is determined by the user or updated by the network device as the user changes his or her
location.
 [0089] In some cases, once a network-enabled device has connected to a network provider, the
network-enabled device determines whether to maintain connectivity to the network provider
based on one or more network connectivity criteria selected from the group consisting of network
bandwidth ("bandwidth"), cost to maintain connectivity to the network provider, cost to transmit
information with the aid of the network provider, the download rate and the upload rate. In some
situations, the network-enabled device makes a similar determination as to another network
provider and connects to the other network provider if improved network conditions are provided
by the other network provider.
 [0090] In one example, the network device connects to a first network provider (e.g., wireless
router) and pings a the first server (with a static IP address) and second server (with a dedicated
URL). Upon receiving a response from the first and second servers, the network device
determines whether network access via the first network provider is optimum (or preferable) by
calculating an upload rate and download rate of the network provided by the first network
provider. If the upload and download rates are above a predetermined limit, the network device
maintains its connection to the first network provider and a user may access the network through
the first network provider. In some cases, the network device also connects to a second network
provider and pings the first and second servers. Connection to the second network provider may
be made while the network device is still connected to the first network device. Alternatively,
the network device may terminate its connection to the first network provider and connect to the
second network provider. Upon receiving a response from the first and second servers, the
network device determines whether network connectivity via the second network provider is
optimum by calculating an upload rate and download rate of the network provided by the first
network provider. If the upload and download rates are improved with respect to the upload and
download rates provided by the first network provider, then the network device terminates its
connection to the first network provider and maintains (or establishes) its connection to the
second network provider.
 [0091] In some situations, when the network-enabled device has the option of using multiple
network providers (e.g., two, five or ten network providers), such as a first or second network
provider, to connect to the network, the network-enabled device uses the second network
provider if the network-enabled device determines that network conditions using the second
                                                       21

network provider are optimum, improved or preferable as compared to network conditions using
the first network provider. This scenario may be relevant if the network-enabled device has
pinged the first and second server with the aid of the first and second network providers and in
both cases a response was received by the network-enabled device. The network-enabled device
uses the second network device (as opposed to the first network device) based upon a
determining at least one network connectivity criterion selected from the group consisting of the
bandwidth of the second network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to the second network
provider, cost to transmit information with the aid of the second network provider, the download
rate of the second network provider, the upload rate of the second network provider and mode of
connectivity (i.e., wired connectivity or wireless connectivity). As an example, if the network
enabled device determines that the cost for connecting to and using the network via the second
network provider is lower than the cost for connecting to and using the network via the first
network provider, the network-enabled device accesses the network via the second network
provider. As another example, if the network-enabled device determines that the network
bandwidth via the second network provider is greater than the network bandwidth via the first
network provider, then the network-enabled device accesses the network via the second network
provider. As another example, if network access via the second network provider is through a
wired connection and network access via the first network provider is through a wireless
connection, and wired connections are preferable over wireless connection, then the network
enabled device accesses the network via the second network provider.
 [0092] In some embodiments, a method for establishing network connectivity for a network
device comprises connecting to a network provider and pinging, with the aid of the network
provider, a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address and/or a second server having
a static (or dedicated) uniform resource locator (URL). Next, a connection to the network
provider is terminated based upon any one network termination condition selected from the
group consisting of (a) a response was not received by the network device from the first server
and/or the second server after pinging, (b) a network bandwidth of another network provider is
higher than a network bandwidth of the network provider, (c) a network cost of another network
provider is lower than a network cost of the network provider, (d) network access provided by
another network provider is more robust than network access provided by the network provider,
(e) connectivity between the network device and another network provider is via wired
connection and connectivity between the network device and the network provider is via wireless
connection and (f) another network provider is in closer proximity to the network device than the
network provider. In some situations, the connection to the network provider is terminated based
upon any two, or any three, or any four, or any five network termination conditions selected from
                                                       22

the group. In other situations, the connection to the network provider is terminated based upon
all network termination conditions.
 [0093] Connectivity between the network device and the first network provider is via a wired or
wireless network access point. That is, in some cases connectivity between the network device
(also "network-enabled device" herein) is through a wired connection (e.g., coax, opto
electronic) to the first network provider, and in other cases connectivity is through a wireless
connection (e.g., WiFi, Bluetooth) to the first network provider. Network providers are
connected to a network, such as one or more servers providing network access to the World Wide
Web, via wired or wireless connections to one or more machines with access to the network.
 [0094] In some embodiments, a method for establishing network connectivity for a network
device, comprises connecting a network device to a first network provider. Next, with the aid of
the first network provider, the network device pings a first server and a second server. In some
situations, one or both of the first and second servers have a static IP addresses. In other
situations, one or both of the first and second servers have static URLs. In other situations, the
first server has a static IP address and the second server has a static URL.
 [0095] Next, the network device terminates its connection to the first network provider and
subsequently (or simultaneously) establishes a connection to a second network provider if the
second network provider meets one or more criteria unmet by the first network provider. In an
embodiment, the one or more criteria are selected from the group consisting of (a) whether a
response was received by the network device from the first server and/or the second server after
pinging, (b) whether a network bandwidth of the second network provider is higher than a
network bandwidth of the first network provider, (c) whether a network cost of the second
network provider is lower than a network cost of the first network provider, (d) whether network
access provided by the second network provider is more robust than network access provided by
the first network provider, (e) whether connectivity between the network device and the second
network provider is via wired connection and connectivity between the network device and the
first network provider is via wireless connection, and (f) whether the second network provider is
in closer proximity to the network device than the first network provider.
 [0096] In some situations, the connection between the network device and the first network
provider is terminated if, in response to the network device pinging the first server and second
server, a response is not received by the network device from the first server or the second server.
Alternatively, the connection is terminated if a response is not received by the network device
from the first server and the second server.
 [0097] In some cases, a method for establishing network connectivity for a network-enabled
device, comprises the network-enabled device connecting to a first network provider (e.g.,
                                                      23

wireless router) and locating a second network provider. The second network provider has a
higher ranked order of preference than the first network provider based on one or more
predetermined network connectivity criteria. For example, the second network provider has a
higher network bandwidth than the first network provider. Next, the network-enabled device
connects to the second network provider. The one or more predetermined network connectivity
criteria is selected from the group consisting of network bandwidth, network cost, and proximity
of the network device to a network provider.
 [0098] In some cases, the network-enabled device selects network providers from a list of
network providers generated by the network-enabled device. The list may include network
providers within a predetermined location or within a predetermined search radius, such as a
radius of at least about 1 meter ("m"), or 2 m, or 3 m, or 4 m, or 5 m, or 6 m, or 7 m, or 8 m, or 9
m, or 10 m, or 20 m, or 30 m, or 40 m, or 50 m, or 60 m, or 70 m, or 80 m, or 90 m, or 100 m, or
200 m, or 300 m, or 400 m, or 500 m, or 600 m, or 700 m, or 800 m, or 900 m, or 1000 m, or
2000 m, or 3000 m, or 4000 m, or 5000 m. Network providers may be ranked by order of
preference, which is determined on the basis of network connectivity factors. Alternatively,
network providers may be ranked on the basis of whether a response is received by the network
enabled device upon pinging the first and/or second server. A network provider at the top of the
list may have received a response from both the first and second servers whereas a network
provider at the bottom of the list might not have received a response from either the first or
second server. The ranking may be a weighed ranking. In some cases, the ranking may be
weighed with the aid of network connectivity factors. In an example, the ranking is weighted on
the basis of network bandwidth-i.e., un-weighted rank order x network bandwidth / total
network bandwidth summed across all network providers in the list.
 [0099] The rank order may be saved in a storage location of the network-enabled device such as
a data file or memory location, and updated manually by a user or at a predetermined interval,
such as every 1 or more second, or 2 or more second, or 3 or more second, or 4 or more second,
or 5 or more second, or 10 or more seconds, or 30 or more seconds, or 1 or more minutes, or 5 or
more minutes, or 10 or more minutes, or 30 or more minutes, or 1 or more hours, or 12 or more
hours, or 1 or more days.
 [00100]         In an example, the first network provider has a higher ranked order of preference
than the second network provider if the first network provider enables a higher network
bandwidth than the second network provider. The network device connects to the first network
provider from the list but continually or intermittently determines whether network connectivity
is optimum or more preferable network access is provided by another network provider. If
network access through the second network provider is preferable with respect to the first
                                                      24

network provider, such as if the second network provider offers cheaper internet access or higher
network bandwidth, then the network device terminates the connection to the first network
provider and connects to the second network provider.
 [00101]        In an embodiment, the network device connects to a network provider only if the
network device successfully pings a first server and a second server (i.e., a response is received
by the network provider after pinging the first and second servers). In an embodiment, the first
server has a static internet protocol (IP) address and the second server has a static (or dedicated)
uniform resource locator (URL).
[00102]         In some situations, the second network provider is located by searching for other
network providers within a predetermined or user-selected search radius of at least about 1 meter
("m"), or 2 m, or 3 m, or 4 m, or 5 m, or 6 m, or 7 m, or 8 m, or 9 m, or 10 m, or 20 m, or 30 m,
or 40 m, or 50 m, or 60 m, or 70 m, or 80 m, or 90 m, or 100 m, or 200 m, or 300 m, or 400 m, or
500 m, or 600 m, or 700 m, or 800 m, or 900 m, or 1000 m, or 2000 m, or 3000 m, or 4000 m, or
5000 m. The network device then generates a list of network providers within the search radius.
[001031         FIG. 3 shows a method 300 for generating a ranked list of network providers, in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In a first step 305, the network-enabled device
searches for network providers (e.g., WiFi access points, 2G network, 3G network, 4G network).
In an embodiment, the search is within a predetermined search radius, such as a radius of at least
about 1 meter ("m"), or 2 m, or 3 m, or 4 m, or 5 m, or 6 m, or 7 m, or 8 m, or 9 m, or 10 m, or
20 m, or 30 m, or 40 m, or 50 m, or 60 m, or 70 m, or 80 m, or 90 m, or 100 m, or 200 m, or 300
m, or 400 m, or 500 m, or 600 m, or 700 m, or 800 m, or 900 m, or 1000 m, or 2000 m, or 3000
m, or 4000 m, or 5000 m. In another embodiment, the search radius is a user-selected search
radius. In another embodiment, the search is within a predetermined or user-selected location,
such as a building (e.g., shopping mall, school).
[00104]         Next, in a second step 310, the network-enabled device generates a list of network
providers based on the search conducted in the first step 305. In a third step 315, the network
enabled device ranks the network providers based on one or more primary network connectivity
factors. In an embodiment, the one or more primary network connectivity factors are selected
from the group consisting of bandwidth, cost to maintain connectivity to the network provider,
cost to transmit information with the aid of the network provider, the download rate, the upload
rate, and whether a ping packet is received from a first server and/or whether a ping packet is
received from a second server (see above). In an example, a network provider offering network
connectivity at a lower cost than another network provider has a higher rank. In another
embodiment, the one or more network connectivity factors include proximity to network
providers. In such a case, a network provider that is close to the network-enabled device (as
                                                      25

measured by the signal strength, for example) has a higher rank than another network provider
that is further away from the network-enabled device. The network-enabled device generates a
ranked list based on the one or more primary network connectivity factors.
 [00105]         In an alternative embodiment, in the third step 315 the ranked list of network
providers is generated by assigning the one or more network providers on the list generated in the
second step 310 a random position. This is accomplished with the aid of a random number
generator or pseudo random number generator. In such a case, a network provider that would
otherwise have a lower rank than another network provider may appear at the top of the ranked
list of network providers. As another alternative, the list of network providers in the second step
310 is populated in the order in which network providers are identified by the network-enabled
device and the third step 315 is precluded. In an example, the list of network providers is
populated in the order in which the network providers respond to the network-enabled device,
such as, for example, the network-enabled device pinging the network providers. In such a case,
the first to respond is first on the list, the second to respond is second on the list, and so on. In
another example, the list of network providers is populated in the order in which the network
enabled device receives some identifiable material from the network providers. The identifiable
material includes text or other data that permits the network-enabled device to identify each of
the network providers.
[001061          Next, in a fourth step 320, the network-enabled device tests the network providers
on the ranked list based on one or more secondary network connectivity factors. The one or
more secondary network connectivity factors are selected from the group consisting of
bandwidth, cost to maintain connectivity to the network provider, cost to transmit information
with the aid of the network provider, the download rate, the upload rate, and whether a ping
packet is received from a first server and/or whether a ping packet is received from a second
server (see above). In an example, if the ranked list is randomly populated, then the secondary
network connectivity factors aid in refining the list to identify preferable or more preferable
network providers. A network provider may be preferable if, for example, the network provider
provides an upload rate, download rate and/or a network bandwidth ("bandwidth") at or above a
predetermined limit or greater than other network providers on the ranked list.
 [00107]         Next, in a fifth step 325, the network-enabled device reorders the list of network
providers based upon the results of the test in the fourth step 320. In some situations, testing the
network providers based on one or more secondary network connectivity factors does not result
in any reordering of the list generated in the second step 310 and third step 315.
[00108]          In a sixth step 330, the network-enabled device connects to a network provider at
the top of the reordered list as generated in the fifth step 325. In some situations, the method 300
                                                         26

is repeated to continually or periodically update the list of network providers such that the most
preferable network provider is at the top of the list. In an example, if the order of the network
providers changes, the network-enabled device connects to a new network provider at the top of
the list. In other situations, the method 300 is repeated manually, such as by request from a user
operating the network-enabled device.
 [00109]          In an embodiment, the network-enabled device stores lists of network providers in
a list or data file in memory, cache, or other storage location (e.g., hard disk) of the network
enabled device. In other embodiments, the network-enabled device stores the lists of network
providers on a server. In some cases, the list is continually updated and the server includes the
most up-to-date list of network providers. If the network-enabled device has a global positioning
service (GPS) feature or is able to triangulate its location, then providing the location of the
network-enabled device with the list of network providers enables generation of a map of
preferable network providers as a function of location.
Network connectivity criteria
 [00110]          Another aspect of the invention provides network connectivity criteria (or rules).
Such rules can be used to determine which network provided to employ for network access. For
instance, a rule may specify that a network provider will be selected on the basis of upload and
download rates. In such a case, a network-enabled device connects to a network provider and
pings a first serer having a static IP address and a second server having a static URL. This is
repeated for any other network providers. A list of network providers is generated having
network provides that enabled the network-enabled device to successfully ping the first and
second servers. From the list, the network-enabled device selects the network provider that
provides the highest upload and download rates.
[00111]           In some embodiments, network connectivity rules are selected from a bandwidth
of the another network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to the another network provider,
cost to transmit information with the aid of the another network provider, a download rate of the
another network provider and an upload rate of the another network provider.
[00112]           In some embodiments, network connectivity rules include (a) whether a response
was received by the network device from the first server and the second server after pinging the
first server and the second server, (b) whether a network bandwidth of the second network
provider is higher than a network bandwidth of the first network provider, (c) whether a network
cost of the second network provider is lower than a network cost of the first network provider, (d)
whether network access provided by the second network provider is more robust than network
access provided by the first network provider, (e) whether connectivity between the network
device and the second network provider is via wired connection and connectivity between the
                                                       27

network device and the first network provider is via wireless connection, and (f) whether the
second network provider is in closer proximity to the network device than the first network
provider.
 [001131         Network connectivity rules may be stored on a network location accessible by a
network-enabled device or stored in a storage location (e.g., memory, hard disk, cache) of the
network-enabled device. Network connectivity rules may be updated manually or at
predetermined times, such as at predetermine intervals (upon a system or software update, for
example). Network connectivity rules in some cases are user-defined. In such a case, a user
modifies network connectivity rules of the user's network-enabled device. In an example, a user
defines a rule prescribing that network connectivity is established using a network provider that
enables the fastest network access and the lowest network cost.
[00114]          In some embodiments, network connectivity rules (or criteria) are dynamic. In an
embodiment, network connectivity rules may vary with a location of a network-enabled device.
In an example, network connectivity rules in a first geographic location (e.g., New York, the
United States of America) are different from network connectivity rules in a second geographic
location (e.g., Paris, France).
[00115]          In some situations, a network-enabled device determines a location of the network
enabled device with the aid of a global positioning system, such as global positioning service
(GPS), and loads or downloads network connectivity rules for use at the location. In some cases,
the network-enabled device loads preset (or default) rules and subsequently updates the rules
with location-specific rules once network access has been established using the default rules.
The default rules may be stored on the network-enabled device.
[001161          Location-specific (location-based) rules may enable a user to optimize network
connectivity at various geographic locations. Network access in one location may be optimized
using a set of rules that are different for optimizing network access in another location. As an
example, network access in Paris may be optimum with the aid of a GSM provider than a CDMA
provider, even though a network-enabled device may be able to access a network through either
the GSM or CDMA provider. This may be the case if, for example, a user has a plan with the
GSM provider but not the CDMA provider.
[00117]          In some cases, rules may be time-based rules. Time-based rules provide rules that
vary as a function of time, such as time of day, day of week, week of month, month of year, and
so on. In some cases, a network-enabled device uses one or more morning rules for testing
network connectivity in the morning, one or more afternoon rules for testing network
connectivity in the afternoon, and one or more evening rules for testing network connectivity in
                                                       28

the evening. Morning, afternoon and evening rules may vary based on the cost of network
access, the upload rate and/or the download rate for these time periods.
 [00118]         In some cases, rules may be bandwidth-based rules in which rules may vary based
on a predetermined level of bandwidth accessible to the network-enabled device. For instance, if
a network-enabled device has exhausted its prescribed bandwidth through a network provider,
then a network connectivity rule may require that the network-enabled device use another
network provider. Some rules may require certain network connectivity guidelines based on the
bandwidth (i.e., available or consumed data) available to a network-enabled device. In an
example, if a network device has not exhausted its allotted bandwidth (e.g., 10 gigabits per
month) through a first network provider, then the network device will use the first network
provider; however, if the network device has exhausted its allotted bandwidth, then the network
device will use a second network provider. This may be useful if the network device will incur
excess usage charges if the network device uses the first network provider.
[00119]          In some embodiments, a network-enabled device connects to a network through a
peer device, such as another network-enabled device. Thus, the peer device may behave as a
network provider. In such cases, the network-enabled device has rules that may require the
network-enabled device to connect to the peer device when certain conditions are met, such as
when network connectivity is preferable through the peer device then through connectivity via a
network provider. This may be the case if, for example, the network-enabled device has
exhausted its allotted bandwidth (or other usage restrictions) for a particular network provider,
and network connectivity through that network provider would be cost-prohibitive.
[00120]          FIG. 6 shows a first network-enabled device 605 and a second network-enabled
device 610. The second network-enabled device 610 has connected to a network provider 615
that in turn is connected to a network 620, such as an intranet or the Internet. The connection
may be through a wired or wireless network interface of the first network-enabled device 605 and
the second network-enabled device 610. In the illustrated example, the connection is through a
wireless interface of the first network-enabled device 605 and the second network-enabled device
610; the connection between the first network-enabled device 605 and the second network
enabled device 610 is wireless (dashed two-way arrow). The second network-enabled device
610, in some cases, has successfully pinged a first server having a static IP address and a second
server having a static URL. In addition, the second network-enabled device 610 may have
satisfied certain network connectivity rules, such as geographic-based rules (e.g., the second
network-enabled device 610 has selected the network provider 615 based on the geographic
location of the second network-enabled device 610).
                                                     29

 [00121]         In some embodiments, a network-enabled device connects to a network provider
(e.g., a router or a peer device) that is a trusted network provider-i.e., the network-enabled
device trusts the network provider. Such trust may be established with the aid of a trust protocol.
For instance, a user may generate a list of trusted network providers, or the user's network
enabled device may maintain a record of network providers that the user has previously selected
for use.
[00122]          In other situations, the trust protocol may be provided through a system having
one or more servers that provide trust protocols to a network-enabled device. Such trust
protocols may be location-based. The trust protocols may be included in the connectivity rules of
the network-enabled device, which may be manually or periodically updated.
[001231          In some embodiments, a first network-enabled device may communicate with a
network (intranet or the Internet) by connecting to a second network-enabled device that is
communicatively coupled to the network. The second network-enabled device in such a case
may have connected to a network-provided and successfully pinged a first sever having a static
IP address and a second server having a static URL. The first network-enabled device may, in
turn, provide network connectivity to a third, fourth, or more network-enabled devices. In some
cases, the first network-enabled device may received updates (e.g., rules update, software update)
from the network via the network connectivity of the second network-enabled device.
Network credits
[00124]          In another aspect of the invention, network credits are provided for enabling a
network-enabled device to connect to a network through a peer device (e.g., another network
enabled device) that has connected to the network. In some embodiments, network credits
provide a network-enabled device an incentive to provide network connectivity for another
network-enabled device; the other network-enabled device in such cases may prefer network
connectivity through the peer device over a non-peer device type of network provider (e.g.,
router).
[00125]           In an example, a first network-enabled device connects to a second network
enabled device that has successfully connected to a network through a router (e.g., WiFi
connection or connection through a CDMA access point). In some cases, network connectivity
for the first network-enabled device through the second network-enabled device may be
preferable if it is cheaper than connectivity through a non-peer device type of network provider,
or if the second network-enabled device provides a preferable signal or bandwidth in comparison
to the non-peer device type of network provider. This may be the case if the first network
enabled device has exhausted its allotted bandwidth through a particular network provider, such
as the router to which the second network-enabled device is connected. In exchange for
                                                        30

providing network connectivity to the first network-enabled device, the second network-enabled
device receives from the first network-enabled device network credits.
 [001261         In some embodiments, network credits provide network-enabled devices an
incentive to connect to a network through peer-to-peer connectivity (see, e.g., FIG. 6). In an
embodiment, network credits are a promise for future payment, such as at a predetermined rate or
a rate that is agreed to by users of network-enabled device at the time of peer-to-peer
connectivity. In another embodiment, network credits are a promise for future network use. In
such a case, if a first network-enabled device pays a second network-enabled device for network
access using network credits from the first network-enabled device, the first network-enabled
device may provide the second network-enabled device network access at a future point in time.
[00127]          Network credits may be negotiated between network-enabled devices to capture
access use restrictions, such as bandwidth and usage time. For instance, if a first network
enabled device pays a second network-enabled device for network access using network credits,
the network credits may provide the second network-enabled device a certain bandwidth (e.g., 2
megabits/second for 30 minutes) of the first network-enabled device at a future point in time.
Alternatively, the network credits may be the promise for a payment of a predetermined or
negotiated sum of money. In some embodiments, the predetermined or negotiated sum of money
is lower than the cost of network connectivity through a non-peer device type of network
provider.
Network connectivity systems
 [00128]         In another aspect of the invention, a system for establishing network connectivity
for a network device comprises a network connectivity system configured to locate network
providers. The network connectivity system is configured to establish a connection to a network
provider, ping a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the
network provider, ping a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with the
aid of the network provider, and determine whether to maintain connectivity to said network
provider based on whether a response was received by said network device from said first server
and/or whether a response was received by said network device from said second server.
 [00129]         In some cases, the network connectivity system is part of an electronic device,
such as a portable electronic device, or associated with an electronic device. The network
connectivity system may be a sub-system of a larger system. In an example, the network
connectivity controller is a network card and associated software in a portable electronic device.
In another example, the network connectivity controller is a stand-alone system configured to
provide network connectivity to electronic devices.
                                                       31

 [001301         The network connectivity system includes one or more devices selected from the
group consisting of central processing unit (CPU), memory (e.g., flash memory), transmitter, and
a bus (e.g., serial bus). The transmitter may be a radiofrequency ("RF") transmitter or opto
electronic transmitter. The one or more devices or components may be interconnected, such as
by way of a circuit in the network connectivity system, or a system board (e.g., motherboard).
[001311          FIG. 4 shows a system 400 having an electronic device 405, a first network
provider 410, second network provider 415, a first server 420 and a second server 425, in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The first server 420 is in communication with
the first network provider 410 and second network provider 415 through a first network 430,
such as an intranet or the Internet 435. The second server 425 is in communication with the first
network provider 410 and second network provider 415 through a second network, such as the
Internet 435. The first server 420 may be connected to the Internet 435.
[00132]          The electronic device 405 includes a network connectivity system for connecting
the electronic device 405 to the first network provider 410 and pinging the first server 420 and
second server 425 or directing a first data packet to the first server 420 and a second data packet
to the second server 425, as described above. The network controller includes computer
executable commands (see below) for facilitating various methods described herein.
[00133]          In some cases, The electronic device 405 is a portable electronic device, such as a
laptop computer, tablet PC or Smart phone. In other cases, the electronic device 405 is a
stationary electronic device, such as a desktop computer or server. The electronic device 405
may connect to the first network provider 410 and second network provider via wired or wireless
modes of communication. As illustrated, the electronic device 405 communicates with the first
network provider 410 and second network provider via wireless communication.
[00134]          The first network provider 410 and second network provider 415 are wireless
routers. In other cases, the first network provider 410 and/or second network provider 415 is a
wired router or other device configured to bring the electronic device 405 in communication with
the network 435. In addition, the system 400 may include other network providers in
communication with the network 435.
[00135]          In an example, the electronic device 405 connects to the first network provider
410 and pings the first server 420 and second server 425. If the electronic device 405 receives a
response from the first server 420 and second server 425, the electronic device 405 maintains its
connection to the first network provider and a user may access the Internet 435. Otherwise, the
electronic device 405 connects to the second network provider 410 and pings the first server 420
and second server 425 and awaits a response.
                                                      32

 [001361          In cases in which a response is received from both the first server 420 and second
server 425, such as via the first network provider 410, the electronic device 405 may determine
whether to maintain connectivity to the first network provider 410 in view of various network
connectivity factors provided herein. For example, the electronic device 405 terminates
connectivity to the first network provider 410 and connects to the second network provider 415 if
the network speed of the first network provider 410 is below a predetermined limit (e.g., 100
kbit/s).
[00137]          The electronic device 405, or components (e.g., network controllers) of the
electronic device 405, may include random-access memory (RAM) for enabling rapid transfer of
information to and from a central processing unit (CPU), and to and from a storage module, such
as one or more storage units, including magnetic storage media (i.e., hard disks), flash storage
media and optical storage media. Additionally, the system may include one or more storage
units, one or more CPUs, one or more RAMs, one or more read-only memories (ROMs), one or
more communication ports (COM PORTS), one or more input/output (1/0) modules, such as an
I/O interface, a network interface for enabling the system to interact with an intranet, including
other systems and subsystems, and the Internet, including the World Wide Web. The storage unit
may include one or more databases, such as a relational database. In some cases, the system
further includes one or more of a data warehouse for storing information (e.g., network providers,
network connectivity history) and a relational database. FIG. 5 shows a functional block diagram
illustration of general purpose computer hardware platforms configured for use with methods and
systems provided herein.
[00138]          The electronic device 405, for example, includes a data communication interface
for data packet communication and/or pining other systems, such as a server. In some situations,
the electronic device 405 includes a central processing unit (CPU), in the form of one or more
processors, for executing program instructions. The electronic device 405 may include an
internal communication bus, program storage and data storage for various data files to be
processed and/or communicated by the system, although the system may receive programming
and data via network communications. The hardware elements, operating systems and
programming languages of such devices are conventional in nature, and it is presumed that those
skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course, device functions may be
implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms, to distribute the
processing load (see below). Electronic devices and systems provided herein may include
subsystems and modules for distributing and/or allocating tasks.
[00139]          In some embodiments, the electronic device 405 includes a network controller
having a processor for executing methods provided above. The processor is configured to
                                                       33

execute machine-readable code (source code or compiled object code) to facilitate methods
described in various embodiments of the invention.
 [00140]         In some embodiments, the device 405 includes a user interface for displaying a list
having one or more network providers to a user. The user interface in some cases is a graphical
user interface (GUI). In an embodiment, the GUI shows a ranked list of network providers, with
a more preferable network provider at the top of the list. In another embodiment, the GUI
enables a user to select a network provided from the list of network providers. In some
situations, the list of network providers is generated with the aid of one or more network
connectivity criteria, as described above.
[00141]          Hence, aspects of the methods outlined above may be embodied in programming.
Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as "products" or "articles of manufacture"
typically in the form of executable code and/or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a
type of machine readable medium. "Storage" type media may include any or all of the tangible
memory of the computers, processors or the like, or associated modules thereof, such as various
semiconductor memories, tape drives, disk drives and the like, which may provide non-transitory
storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times
be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such
communications, for example, may enable loading of the software from one computer or
processor into another, for example, from a management server or host computer into the
computer platform of an application server. Media that may bear the software elements include
optical, electrical and electromagnetic waves, such as used across physical interfaces between
local devices, through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The
physical elements that carry such waves, such as wired or wireless links, optical links or the like,
also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein, unless restricted to non
transitory, tangible "storage" media, terms such as computer or machine "readable medium" refer
to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.
[00142]          A machine readable medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, a
tangible storage medium, a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non-volatile
storage media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as any of the storage devices
in any computer(s) or the like, such as may be used to implement the databases, etc. shown in the
drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory, such as main memory of such a
computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables; copper wire and fiber
optics, including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier-wave
transmission media may take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals, or acoustic or light
                                                      34

waves such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data
communications.
 [00143]        Common forms of computer-readable media therefore include, for example: a
floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM,
DVD or DVD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards paper tape, any other physical
storage medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a ROM, a PROM and EPROM, a FLASH
EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave transporting data or instructions,
cables or links transporting such a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer
may read programming code and/or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may
be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for
execution.
[00144]         Methods steps may be implemented by a program product, including machine
executable instructions, such as program code, for example, in the form of program modules
executed by systems or machines in networked environments. Generally, program modules may
include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular
tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine-executable instructions, associated
data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of
the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or
associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the
functions described in such steps.
[00145]              In some situations, systems and methods provide herein are practiced in a
networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having
processors. Logical connections may include, for example, a local area network (LAN) and/or a
wide area network (WAN). Such networking environments may be found in office-wide or
enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet, and may use a wide variety of
different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network
computing environments may encompass many types of computer system configurations,
including personal computers, hand-held devices, multi-processor systems, microprocessor-based
or programmable consumer electronics, network personal computers (PCs), servers,
minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like.
[00146]              It should be noted that although the flowcharts provided herein (e.g., FIGs. 1
and 2) show a specific order of method steps (also "steps" herein), it is understood that the order
of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed
concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation may depend on the software and
hardware systems chosen, and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are
                                                     35

within the scope of the invention. Likewise, software and web implementations of the present
invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic
and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps, correlation steps, comparison
steps and decision steps.
                                               Examples
Example 1
 [00147]         A user is in an area with three WiFi routers within wireless range of the user's
laptop computer. A user connects the user's laptop computer to a first WiFi router. The user's
laptop computer pings a first server having a static IP address and a second server having a
dedicated URL (e.g., "Google.com"). Upon pinging the second server, a DNS serer in network
communication with the first WiFi router resolves an IP address of the second server. A ping
packet is then sent to the second server at the resolved IP address. If the user's laptop computer
receives a response from the first and second servers, then the user's laptop computer maintains
connectivity to first WiFi router. The user then uses the web to check his or her email or search
the Internet, for example. If the user's laptop computer does not receive a response from one or
both of the first and second servers, then the user's laptop computer connects to a second WiFi
router.
Example 2
 [00148]         A user is on a plane with a plurality of network access points (WiFi hotspots).
The user's Smart phone automatically scans for and generates a list of access points. Next, the
user's Smart phone connects to a first network access point and pings a first server having a static
IP address and a second server having a dedicated URL. Pinging the second server entails using
the ping command with the URL as the destination address (e.g., "ping www.Google.com"). The
DNS server will resolve the IP address of the URL to then ping the second server with the
resolved IP address. If the user's Smart phone receives a response from both the first and second
servers, then the user' s Smart phone maintains its connection to the first network access point
and the user accesses the network. If the user's Smart phone does not receive a response from
one or both of the first and second servers, then the user's Smart phone connects to a second
network access point and the steps above are repeated.
Example 3
 [00149]         A tablet PC (e.g., iPad) has a first wireless interface configured to communicate
with one or more WiFi routers and a second wireless interface configured to communicate with a
GSM provider. The tablet PC connects to a WiFi router using the first wireless interface and
pings a first server having a static IP address and a second server having a static URL. Next, the
tablet PC connects to a GSM provider using the second wireless interface and pings the first and
                                                        36

second servers. The tablet PC then assesses, with the aid of a processor of the tablet PC, network
connectivity via the WiFi router and the GSM provider to determine whether connectivity via the
WiFi router and/or the GSM provider meet certain predetermined network connectivity criteria
(or rules). The tablet PC determines that network connectivity via the WiFi router is preferable
because it provides higher upload and download rates and is cheaper than connectivity via the
GSP provider. The tablet PC then uses the WiFi router for Internet access.
 [00150]        Referring now to Figure 7, yet another non-limiting example of a system 700 will
now be described. Figure 7 is a schematic showing possible network connectivity pathways
between various hardware components in one network to one or more other networks.
Optionally, instead of hardware, the schematic in Figure 7 may optionally represent network
connectivity interfaces that can be supported by integrated hardware or components capable of
running multiple network connectivity interfaces.
[00151]         In this non-limiting example, one or more network devices 702 and 704 such as
but not limited to servers can be used to verify end-to-end connectivity from one network to
another network. In this present embodiment, this connectivity between networks may be by
way of internet connection or similar wide area network between the two networks. It should be
understood that in some embodiments, the connection may involve sending data packets and/or
frames over public networks and/or private networks in order to reach the destination network of
the network devices 702 or 704.
[00152]         As seen in Figure 7, one embodiment of system 700 has a device 710 (shown in
phantom) that includes communication components 712, 714, and 716. In one embodiment,
these components are all within the device 710. Optionally, some embodiments may have one or
more these components 712, 714, and 716 external to the device. It should be understood that
these components 712, 714, and 716 can each support one or more network connectivity
interfaces.   Optionally, the components 712, 714, and 716 may have at least one component that
supports a plurality of network interfaces on one components. Optionally, it should be
understood that some embodiments may combined components 712, 714, and 716 into one
integrated hardware unit. That supports multiple network connectivity interfaces. It should be
understood that the network devices 702 or 704 which the components 712, 714, and 716 are
trying to contact are not on the same network as the device 710.
[00153]         In one non-limiting example, the communication component 712 can be a cellular
wireless communication component for one or more types of cellular wireless communications
interfaces such as but not limited to GSM, CDMA, etc... under 3G, 4G Wimax, 4G LTE, 5G, or
other data protocols. As seen in Figure 7, some embodiments may have the component 712
configured to be able to communication with GSM base station 720, CDMA base station 722, or
                                                     37

base station 724 operating under yet another wireless cellular communication protocol. Although
the cellular wireless transceivers 720, 722, and 724 are referred to as base stations, it should be
understood that other suitable physical configurations can also be adapted for use. By way of
non-limiting example, Figure 7 shows that some of the wireless transceivers 720 and 722 can be
outside the local network 730 while one or more of the transceivers 724 may optionally be within
the local network 730.
 [00154]         Figure 7 also shows that the communication components 714 and 716 can be in
connection with other transceiver units 726 and 728. In one non-limiting example, component
714 is a wireless antenna in communication with transceiver 726 such as a wireless router via a
protocol such as but not limited to IEEE 802.11 a, b,g, or n. In another non-limiting example,
component 716 is a wired communications unit in communication with transceiver 728 such as
an Ethernet router. As previously discussed herein, a computer processor (not shown) in the
device can be configured to run a program that will determine which of the communication
components 712, 714, and 716 to use to provide end-to-end connectivity as illustrated by arrow
740 from the device 710 to a server or other device on another network. Although the present
embodiment shows that there are three communication components 712, 714, and 716, it should
be understood that other embodiments may have more or fewer components. Some embodiments
may have multiple types of any one of the components. For example, some embodiments may
have more than one cellular wireless component to cover both CDMA and GSM. Optionally,
some may have multiple GSM units to cover various frequencies and/or data protocols. Some
embodiments may have multiple wired and/or wireless units to communicate with different
wired/wireless devices such as but not limited to Bluetooth, USB, IEEE 1394, Thunderbolt, or
the like.
[00155]          As seen in Figure 7, the system 700 can be configured to verify the end-to-end
connectivity is made and that connectivity is not merely to the transceivers 724 to 728 without
further verification that those transceivers are able to be in communication with the device(s) at
the destination network. These verification techniques have been discussed above. In one non
limiting example, the criteria for switching from one component 712 to another is based on
connectivity (whether any network connection is established at all). Optionally, it could also be
based on quality of the connectivity (bandwidth, lag, packet loss, etc...) and/or cost. In one
embodiment, there is a pre-selected sequence on which component 712 to 716 to check first.
Optionally, all are checked substantially simultaneously and connection is maintained based on
criteria set forth by the device 710 or by the user. Optionally, not all of the connections are
checked simultaneously, but are instead check in groups having at least one or more connections.
In at least one embodiment, connection is initially made using as many of the components 712 to
                                                       38

716 as desired and then the connections that are made but not meeting criteria are then
disconnected in favor of one or more that meet the criteria. In one embodiment, connectivity is
check at connection startup and then subsequently check at other time intervals or if performance
of the current connection fall below a certain threshold. Optionally, at least two connections are
made at connection startup and then they are compared to determine which to keep. They may
then subsequently check at other time intervals, when performance of the current connection falls
below a certain threshold, and/or if one of the other connections provides a better quality
connection (even if the current network connection has not substantially degraded).
 [001561         Optionally, some embodiments wherein the device 710 may have memory of
wireless hotspots or other connections previously established at a location, will still run a test for
end-to-end connectivity even though the connection at a previous time had been successful. This
end-to-end verification is help to ensure that the connection for the current session is successful.
 [00157]        In the previously described end-to-end connectivity testing techniques, wherein a
static (or dedicated) URL, static IP address, or other reliable, stable identifier of a distant device
or network is used to determine if end-to-end connection can be made, this information may be
stored locally on the device 710. Optionally, this information can be stored on a resource on the
local network that is reachable by the device 710. In one embodiment, this information is used to
connect to a location that is not on the local network and may require use of the public network
or public WAN to contact. By way of non-limiting example, this static (or dedicated) URL,
static IP address, or other reliable, stable identifier is pre-loaded into the system. Priority of
connection to the static (or dedicated) URL, static IP address, or other reliable, stable identifier is
based on internally set priorities or based on information downloaded to set connection
preferences. It should also be understood that the static (or dedicated) URL, static IP address, or
other reliable, stable identifier can be different for each of the components 712 to 716 and that
the such identifier/component may selected based a desired pairing.
[00158]         By way of non-limiting example, the testing may occur by connection under Open
System Interconnection Model (OSI) by a layer three connection such as but not limited to a ping
or internet control message protocol (ICMP) and/or a layer seven connection such as but not
limited to HTTP command. In one non-limiting example, the various OSI layers such as layer
three or higher layers can be used to verify distant end-to-end connection, not just verify
connection to local resources. Some embodiments may use more than one from the same layer.
Optionally, others may use one from layer 3 and one from one of the other layers. Other single
or multiple combination of commands in one or more of the OSI layers on layer 3 or higher can
be used for end-to-end connectivity verification. By way of non-limiting example, some layer 3
protocols include but are not limited to: IP, IPv4, IPv6, ARP, ICMP, IPsec, IGMP, IPX, or
                                                         39

AppleTalk. By way of non-limiting example, some layer 7 protocols include but are not limited
to: NNTP, SIP, SSI, DNS, FTP, Gopher, HTTP, NFS, NTP, SMPP, SMTP, SNMP, Telnet,
DHCP, Netconf, or others. Other protocols for other layers can be found in Data
Communications and Computer Networks: A Business User's Approach, By Curt M. White
2012, fully incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
 [00159]         The publications discussed or cited herein are provided solely for their disclosure
prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an
admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior
invention. Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication
dates which may need to be independently confirmed. All publications mentioned herein are
incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the structures and/or methods in
connection with which the publications are cited. The following applications are also
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes: U.S. Patent Nos. 7,888,125, 8,007,999,
8,088,593 and U.S. Publication No., US20120309636, PCT Application No. PCT
US2012/057155, and PCT Application No. PCT/US2011/53188, filed September 25, 2011. PCT
Application No. PCT/US2011/53188, filed September 25, 2011, U.S. Patent Application Serial
No, 13/244,946, filed September 26, 2011, PCT Application No. PCT/US 11/53189, filed
September 25, 2011, Patent Cooperation Treaty Application No. PCT/US2012/57155; U.S.
Patent Application 13/244,947; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,949; U.S. Patent Application
 13/244,950; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,951; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,952; U.S.
Patent Application 13/244,953; U.S. Patent Application 13/244,954; and U.S. Patent Application
 13/244,956. It should be understood that network connectivity systems, devices, and/or methods
described herein can be adapted for use with analyzer devices and systems described in the
foregoing patents and applications.
[00160]          It should be understood from the foregoing that, while particular implementations
have been illustrated and described, various modifications can be made thereto and are
contemplated herein. It is also not intended that the invention be limited by the specific
examples provided within the specification. While the invention has been described with
reference to the aforementioned specification, the descriptions and illustrations of embodiments
of the invention herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Furthermore, it shall be
understood that all aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific depictions,
configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions
and variables. Various modifications in form and detail of the embodiments of the invention will
be apparent to a person skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the invention shall also
cover any such modifications, variations and equivalents.
                                                        40

[001611         This document contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright
owner (Applicant herein) has no objection to facsimile reproduction of the patent documents and
disclosures, as they appear in the US Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but
otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply: Copyright
2011-14 Theranos, Inc.
                                                    41

                                                CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.      A computer-implemented method for testing network connectivity for a network device,
comprising:
         connecting to a network provider;
         pinging a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the
network provider;
         pinging a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with the aid of the
network provider; and
         determining whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider based on whether
a response was received by said network device from said first server and/or whether a response
was received by said network device from said second server.
2.       The method of Claim 1, wherein determining whether to maintain connectivity to said
network provider is based on whether a response was received by said network device from said
first server and whether a response was received by said network device from said second server.
3.       The method of Claim 1, further comprising connecting to an another network provider
based on at least one criterion selected from the group consisting of a bandwidth of the another
network provider, cost to maintain connectivity to the another network provider, cost to transmit
information with the aid of the another network provider, a download rate of the another network
provider and an upload rate of the another network provider.
4.       The method of Claim 3, wherein the at least one criterion is location-based, time based or
bandwidth-based.
5.       The method of Claim 1, wherein pinging said first server comprises sending a ping packet
to the first server.
6.       The method of Claim 1, wherein pinging said second server comprises sending a ping
packet to the second server.
7.       The method of Claim 1, wherein connectivity to the network provider is maintained if the
first server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the first server and/or the
second server responds to the network device in response to said pinging the second server.
8.       The method of Claim 1, further comprising connecting to another network provider if the
first server does not respond to the network device in response to said pinging the first server
and/or the second server does not respond to the network device in response to said pinging the
second server.
                                                        42

9.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the network provider is selected from the group
consisting of a wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router,
radiofrequency (RF) device and optoelectronic device.
 10.    The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
        connecting to an additional network provider;
        pinging the first server with the aid of the additional network provider;
        pinging the second server with the aid of the additional network provider; and
        determining whether to maintain connectivity to the additional network provider based on
whether a response was received by the network device from the first server and/or whether a
response was received by the network device from the second server.
 11.    The method of Claim 10, wherein determining whether to maintain connectivity to the
additional network provider is based on whether a response was received by the network device
from the first server and whether a response was received by the network device from the second
server.
 12.    The method of Claim 10, wherein connecting to said second network provider comprises
terminating connectivity to said network provider.
 13.    The method of Claim 1, wherein said network provider is selected from the group
consisting of a wireless router, Bluetooth router, wired router, cellular network router,
radiofrequency (RF) device and optoelectronic device.
 14.    The method of Claim 1, wherein the first and second servers are pinged simultaneously.
 15.    A computer-implemented method for selecting a network provider for a network device,
comprising:
        connecting to the network provider;
        pinging, with the aid of the network provider, a first server having a static internet
protocol (IP) address and a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL); and
        terminating a connection to said network provider based upon any one network
termination condition selected from the group consisting of (a) a response was not received by
the network device from said first server and/or said second server after said pinging, (b) a
network bandwidth of another network provider is higher than a network bandwidth of said
network provider, (c) a network cost of another network provider is lower than a network cost of
said network provider, (d) network access provided by another network provider is more robust
than network access provided by said network provider, (e) connectivity between the network
device and another network provider is via wired connection and connectivity between the
network device and said network provider is via wireless connection and (f) another network
provider is in closer proximity to the network device than said network provider.
                                                       43

16.     The method of Claim 15, wherein the connection to said network provider is terminated
based upon at least any two network termination conditions selected from said group.
17.     The method of Claim 16, wherein the connection to said network provider is terminated
based upon at least any three network termination conditions selected from said group.
18.     The method of Claim 15, further comprising connecting to an another network provider.
19.     The method of Claim 15, wherein connectivity between the network device and the first
network provider is via a wired or wireless network access point.
20.     The method of Claim 15, wherein the first and second servers are pinged simultaneously.
21.     A method for establishing network connectivity for a network device, comprising the
steps of:
        (a) connecting to a first network provider;
        (b) pinging, with the aid of the first network provider, a first server and a second server;
            and
        (c) selecting a second network provider over said first network provider if said second
            network provider meets a criterion unmet by said first network provider.
22.     The method of Claim 21, wherein said selecting is in response to said pinging.
23.     The method of Claim 21, wherein said criterion is a location-based, time based or
bandwidth-based criterion.
24.     The method of Claim 21, wherein said first server has a static internet protocol (IP)
address.
25.     The method of Claim 24, wherein said second server has a static uniform resource locator
(URL).
26.     The method of Claim 21, wherein said criterion is selected from the group consisting of
(a) whether a response was received by the network device from said first server and/or said
second server after said pinging, (b) whether a network bandwidth of said second network
provider is higher than a network bandwidth of said first network provider, (c) whether a network
cost of said second network provider is lower than a network cost of said first network provider,
(d) whether network access provided by said second network provider is more robust than
network access provided by said first network provider, (e) whether connectivity between said
network device and said second network provider is via wired connection and connectivity
between said network device and said first network provider is via wireless connection, and (f)
whether said second network provider is in closer proximity to the network device than said first
network provider.
27.     A system for establishing network connectivity for a network device, comprising:
                                                      44

        a) a network connectivity controller for locating network providers, the network
connectivity controller having a processor for executing machine-readable code configured to:
                 establish a connection to a network provider;
                 ping a first server having a static internet protocol (IP) address with the aid of the
        network provider;
                 ping a second server having a static uniform resource locator (URL) with the aid
        of the network provider; and
                 determine whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider based on
        whether a response was received by said network device from said first server and/or
        whether a response was received by said network device from said second server; and
        b) a graphical user interface for displaying a list of network providers to a user, the list of
network providers generated with the aid of one or more network connectivity criteria.
28.     The system of Claim 27, wherein said one or more network connectivity criteria are
selected from the group consisting of a bandwidth of another network provider, cost to maintain
connectivity to another network provider, cost to transmit information with the aid of another
network provider, a download rate of another network provider and an upload rate of another
network provider.
29.     The system of Claim 27, wherein said one or more network-connectivity criteria are
location-based, time based or bandwidth-based.
30.     The system of Claim 27, wherein said machine-readable code is configured to determine
whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider based on whether a response was
received by said network device from said first server and whether a response was received by
said network device from said second server.
31.   A device comprising:
        a plurality of network connectivity interfaces on one or more components in the device,
wherein at least two of said network connectivity interfaces use different connectivity
technologies;
        a programmable processor programmed to perform:
        a) a first network connectivity test using a first of said network connectivity interfaces to
verify end-to-end connectivity between the device and another device on another network;
        b) a second network connectivity test using the second of said network connectivity
interfaces to verify end-to-end connectivity between said device and another device on another
network;
        determining which network connection to maintain based on status of each of the network
connectivity tests;
                                                         45

        wherein said network connectivity test is run at the beginning of network connectivity
and periodically after network connection is established.
32.   The device of claim 31 wherein the first connectivity test comprises running a command in
    a protocol in OSI layer three.
33.   The device of claim 31 wherein the first connectivity test comprises running a command in
    a protocol in OSI layer seven.
34.     A computer-implemented method for testing network connectivity for a network device,
comprising:
        connecting to a network provider; and
        determining whether to maintain connectivity to said network provider.
35.     A computer-implemented method for testing network connectivity for a network device,
comprising:
        connecting to a network provider; and
        determining whether to switch to another network provider.
                                     Theranos, Inc.
                                Patent Attorneys for the
                             Applicant/Nominated Person
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                    46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
