                                                                                       LEADERS IN
                                                                                       ADVANTAGE
                                       Abstract
The 2D Target is a thin sheet metal cut-out 1, this cut-out is separated into two even
halves and is attached to one another by hinges 2. This cut-out is then attached to
the metal frame 3, with pop rivets 5. The Metal frame is in two portions 3, and is
joined by locking pins 4 when it is expanded. The back of the target has a sheet
metal cover 7, which encloses the rear of the metal frame 3. This enables a cavity for
the thermal components to be installed.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                                                                                      W1L LEADERSIN
                                                                                          ADVANTAGE
                              2D AFV Target Description
GaardTech Pty Ltd, has invented a '2D AFV Target' based on the following
concepts:
   -    The 'Target' is modular and able to expand to twice its stored size.
   -    The 'Target' represents a full sized Armoured Fighting Vehicle (AFV) or
        Tank silhouette.
   -    The 'Target' has an image of the desired vehicle on its front.
   -    The 'Target' has a thermal signature.
The '2D Target' achieves innovation in the following manner:
   -    It exactly represents the chosen vehicles silhouette. See figure 1.
   -    It uses a colour image of the chosen vehicle on the face of the target for
        vehicle identification.
   -    It is a flat packed unit that folds out to full size and uses locking pins to
        hold its form when assembled.
   -    It has fittings for thermally active (hot) components. See figure 2.
The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations of
embodiments of the invention which:
Figure 1: describes the 'targets' assembled form from the front.
Figure 2: describes the hinged joints and locking pins that enable its expansion
and its thermal area.
Figure 3: describes the target from the side view.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                                                                                         W1L LEADERSIN
                                                                                             ADVANTAGE
                                            Claims
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1) The '2D Target' represents a full sized modern Main Battle Tank or AFV from a
   frontal perspective. See Figure 1.
2) The '2D Target', is modular, it has hinges and locking joints to enable its expansion
   from its flat packed form, see Figure 2.
3) The '2D Target' as described in claim 1, has fittings for components to produce a
   thermal signature. See Figure 2.

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
