                                              ABSTRACT
  A method of manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a
  joint, comprising the steps of receiving radiology image data representing three dimensional
5 image of a joint; generating a first three dimensional representation (330,460) of a first
  surface of the joint (260) in a trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained
  segmentation process control parameter set (420) and said radiology image data; generating
  a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface, wherein said
  geometrical object is confined by said first surface; generating control software adapted to
0 control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on
  said set of data representing a geometrical object and on a predetermined model of
  components of said surgical kit.

            3/13
320
                            350
    330~
         Figure 3a
                        360
                   3 70
         Figure 3b

   METHOD AND NODE FOR MANUFACTURING A SURGICAL KIT FOR
   CARTILAGE REPAIR
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   Generally, embodiments of the invention relate to the technical field of designing and
 5 manufacturing customized implants used for patient treatment in health care based on
   radiology imaging.
   More specifically, different embodiments of the application relate to a process and a system
   for manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint.
   BACKGROUND
 o Radiology is a medical technique that uses imaging to diagnose and treat patients for health
   related issues. An array of imaging techniques are used in radiology, like X-ray radiography,
   ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine, positron emission tomography
   (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
   The patient is exposed to radiology imaging technology by capturing three dimensional
 5 radiology images, e.g. of a knee joint, that can provide information about the human body's
   internal structures. This occurs in a medical care facility, e.g. at a radiology department of a
   hospital. The images and the information obtained are forwarded to an implant design center
   for design of an implant and resulting control software (CAD/CAM), e.g.to improve or repair
   damaged cartilage, e.g. in a damaged human knee.
 o In conventional systems implants may be manufactured as surgical kits in standard sizes and
   might be supplied with standard guides to support in implant surgery, e.g. to support in
   determining the position and mounting angle of the implant.
   A problem with conventional systems is that implants are poorly customized to patients that
   may lead to replacement of unnecessary large areas of undamaged cartilage bad alignment of
-5 the top surface of the implant to the cartilage top surface being replaced, which in turn might
   lead to reduced or no improvement of the condition of the person being subjected to implant
   surgery.
   Another problem is that three dimensional representations of surfaces in the body, e.g. a 3D
   surface derived from a radiology 3D image of an articulating surface of a joint, that are
30 generated based on three dimensional radiology images are generally not as smooth as the
   surface of healthy cartilage tissue.
   Yet another problem is to generate or derive an accurate three-dimensional representation of
   a surface of a joint based on 3D radiology images and a segmentation process, wherein the
   segmentation process is controlled by a segmentation process control parameter set.
35 Yet another problem is to estimate an undamaged cartilage top surface in an area with
   damaged cartilage top surface by obtain a segmentation process control parameter set that
   will enable improved manufacturing of a patient customized surgical kit for cartilage repair.
                                                    1

                                                     2
   Therefore, there is a need for a system and method to improve manufacturing of a surgical kit
   for cartilage repair.
   OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
   The object of the invention is to improve manufacturing of a patient customized surgical kit
 5 for cartilage repair.
   SUMMARY
   Aspects of the present invention are described herein and in Australian patent application
   2014381833, which from which the present specification is divided. Reference may be made
   in the description to subject matter which is not in the scope of the appended claims but
 0 relates to subject matter claimed in the parent specification. That subject matter should be
   readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist putting into practice the
   invention as defined in the appended claims.
   Embodiments of the present invention relate to improved manufacturing of a surgical kit for
   cartilage repair. Certain embodiments include receiving radiology image data representing
 5 three dimensional image of a joint, generating a first three dimensional representation of a
   first surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained
   segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image data, generating a
   second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in a trainable
   dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process control
 0 parameter set and said radiology image data, generating a cartilage damage perimeter CDP
   based on said radiology image data, generating a set of data representing a geometrical object
   based on said first surface, said second surface and said CDP, wherein said geometrical object
   represent identified cartilage damage, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said
   first surface, said second surface and said CDP and generating control software adapted to
 5 control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on
   said set of data representing a geometrical object and on a predetermined model of
   components of said surgical kit.
   One of the advantages of the present disclosure is that improved customization of a cartilage
   implant to a patient's body is achieved.
3o Another advantage of the present disclosure is that a smooth surface aligning well with
   remaining healthy cartilage tissue is obtained after implant surgery.
   Another advantage of the present disclosure is that an accurate three-dimensional
   representation of a surface of a joint is obtained.
   Another advantage of the current disclosure is that an improved segmentation process
35 control parameter set is obtained, thereby enabling improved manufacturing of a patient
   customized surgical kit for cartilage repair.
   In one or more embodiments, a method of manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in
   an articulating surface of a joint, comprising the steps of:
   -receiving radiology image data representing three dimensional image of a joint;

                                                     3
   -generating a first three dimensional representation (330,460) of a first surface of the joint
   (260) in a trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation
   process control parameter set (420) and said radiology image data;
   -generating a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
 5 wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface;
   -generating control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
   surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   In one or more embodiments, further comprising the step generating a second three
 0 dimensional representation (320) of a second surface of the joint (230) in a trainable
   dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data; and;
   generating a set of data representing a geometrical object further based on said second three
   dimensional representation, wherein said geometrical object is further confined by said
 5 second surface;
   In one or more embodiments, further comprising the step generating a cartilage damage
   perimeter CDP based on said radiology image data; and;
   generating a set of data representing a geometrical object further based on said CDP, wherein
   said geometrical object is further confined by said CDP;
 0 In one or more embodiments, further comprising the step generating a surgical kit perimeter
   SKP based on said radiology image data; and;
   generating a set of data representing a geometrical object further based on said SKP, wherein
   said geometrical object is further confined by said SKP;
   In one or more embodiments, wherein generating a first three-dimensional representation of
 5 a first surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process further comprises the
   steps:
   I) obtaining a predefined ordered set of segmentation process control parameters instances;
   II) generating a first three dimensional representation of said first surface based on the first
   instance of said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image
3o data;
   III) store said first three-dimensional representation in a data buffer
   IV) generating a first three dimensional representation 460 of said first surface based on the
   next instance of said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology
   image data;
35 V) store said first three-dimensional representation in a data buffer
   VI) repeating steps IV and V for all instances of said predefined ordered set;

                                                     4
   VII) determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set based on a
   first three dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first three dimensional
   representation quality value is based on said three dimensional representations stored in the
   data buffer, said predefined ordered set and a predetermined object function.
 5 In one or more embodiments, wherein generating a first three dimensional representation of
   a first surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process further comprises the
   steps:
   XI) obtaining an initial segmentation process control parameter set;
   XII) determining a trained segmentation process control parameter set as said initial
 o segmentation process control parameter set;
   XIII) generating a first three dimensional representation of said first surface based on said
   trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image data;
   XIV) determining a differential trained segmentation process control parameter set based on
   a first three dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first three dimensional
 5 representation quality value is based on said three dimensional representation and a
   predetermined object function.
   XV) determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set based on
   said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said differential trained
   segmentation process control parameter set
 o XVI) repeating steps XIII-XVI above if said first three dimensional representation quality
   value is below or above a predefined quality value threshold.
   In one or more embodiments, wherein generating a second three dimensional representation
   of a second surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process further comprises
   the steps:
 5 XX) obtaining an initial dynamical model process control parameter set;
   XXI) determining a trained dynamical model process control parameter set as said initial
   dynamical model process control parameter set;
   XXII) generating a second three dimensional representation of said second surface based on
   said trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said radiology image data;
30 XXIII) determining a differential trained dynamical model process control parameter set
   based on a three-dimensional representation quality value, wherein said three dimensional
   representation quality value is based on said three-dimensional representation.
   XXIV) determining an updated trained dynamical model process control parameter set based
   on said trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said differential trained
35 dynamical model process control parameter set;
   XXV) repeating steps XX-XXV above if said three dimensional representation quality value is
   below or above a predefined quality value threshold.

                                                      5
   In one or more embodiments, wherein said radiology image data is based on a selection of X
   ray, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine, positron emission
   tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
   In one or more embodiments, an implant design center system for manufacturing a surgical
 5 kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint, the system comprising:
   a memory 830;
   a communications interface 840;
   a processor 810 configured to perform the steps of:
   -receiving radiology image data representing three dimensional image of a joint;
 0 -generating a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
   trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data;
   -generating a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface;
 5 -generating control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
   surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   A computer program product comprising computer readable code configured to, when
   executed in a processor, perform any or all of the method steps described herein.
 0 A non-transitory computer readable memory on which is stored computer readable code
   configured to, when executed in a processor, perform any or all of the method steps described
   herein.
   BRIEFDESCRIPTION OFDRA WINGS
   Embodiments of the invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the
25 appended drawings, wherein:
   Fig. 1a illustrates healthy joint with bone and cartilage tissue.
   Fig. 1b  illustrates a damaged joint with bone and damaged cartilage tissue.
   Fig. 2a  illustrates a side view intersection of a generated first three-dimensional
   representation of a first surface of the joint, a generated second three-dimensional
30 representation of a second surface of the joint, a generated cartilage damage perimeter CDP
   and a generated surgical kit perimeter SKP in accordance with one or more embodiments of
   the present disclosure.
   Fig. 2b  illustrates a top view of a generated first three-dimensional representation of a first
   surface of the joint, a generated second three-dimensional representation of a second surface

                                                     6
   of the joint, a generated cartilage damage perimeter CDP and a generated surgical kit
   perimeter SKP in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
   Fig. 3a shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a first three dimensional representation
   of a first surface of the joint, a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of
 5 the joint and a geometrical object.
   Fig. 3b shows a schematic view of an embodiment of an adapted implant component
   comprised in a model of components of a surgical kit based on a geometrical object and an
   adapted implant guide component comprised in a model of components of a surgical kit
   based on a geometrical object.
 0 Fig. 4 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a trainable image segmentation process
   Fig. 5 shows a schematic view of an alternative embodiment of a trainable image
   segmentation process
   Fig. 6 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a trained dynamical model process
   Fig. 7 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a system for manufacturing a surgical kit
 5 for cartilage repair
   Fig. 8 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of an implant design center adapted to
   generate control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical
   kit for cartilage repair.
   Fig. 9 shows a flowchart of an embodiment of a computer-implemented method to
 o manufacturing a surgical kit.
   Fig.  10  shows a flowchart of yet an embodiment of a computer-implemented method to
   manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint.
   Fig.  11 shows a flowchart of yet an embodiment of a computer-implemented method to
   manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint.
25 Fig.  12 shows a flowchart of yet an embodiment of a computer-implemented method to
   manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint.
   Fig.  13 shows a flowchart of yet an embodiment of a computer-implemented method to
   manufacturing a surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint.

                                                     7
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   INTRODUCTION
   When repairing cartilage by performing cartilage implant surgery, a first problem is to
   determine the design or dimensions of an implant. The implant is generally linked or
 5 attached to a patient's body by inserting an implant support into a drilled cavity, e.g. into the
   bone. Therefore yet another problem is to ensure that the cartilage implant is placed and
   located correctly, i.e. that the position and mounting angle of the implant is correct, thereby
   aligning the outer or top surface of the implant to the remaining cartilage tissue.
   The inventive concept described herein solves this by providing an implant and a matching
 o implant guide, referred to as a surgical kit, based on radiology image data. The implant guide
   may be positioned and attached to the patient's body, typically the bone to which the cartilage
   is attached, thereby allowing a cavity to be drilled in the correct location and mounting angle
   for insertion of the implant support.
   To customize the surgical kit to a particular patient the design of the surgical kit is obtained
 5 by adapting a model of components, comprising an implant component and an implant guide
   component. The outline of the implant is determined based on a cartilage damage perimeter
    (CDP), indicating the extent of the cartilage damage, e.g. on a second surface of the joint. The
   outline of the implant guide is determined by generating a surgical kit perimeter (SKP),
   indicating the area on a first surface of the joint, such as the underlying bone, available on a
 o particular patient to place an implant guide in. The outer or top surface of the implant is
   determined by the remaining cartilage tissue outer surface and adapted so that a smooth
   transition between the cartilage outer surface and the implant outer surface is obtained, i.e.
   aligned to remaining cartilage tissue outer surface. The model of components is then adapted
   based on the first surface of the joint and alternatively the second surface of the joint, CDP
 5 and SKP.
   To adapt the model components a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of
   the joint and optionally a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the
   joint, CDP and optionally SKP are generated based on radiology image data.
   To extract the first surface from radiology image data, a first three-dimensional
30 representation of a first surface may be generated by in an image segmentation process
   dependent on a segmentation process control parameter set.
   The outer or top surface of the implant is replacing damage tissue. The outer or top surface of
   damaged tissue will not be identifiable in the radiology image data, however the undamaged
   tissue may be identified and used to adapt a dynamical model of a second surface to align
35 with the undamaged tissue. Therefore, a second three dimensional representation of a second
   surface of the joint may be generated in a dynamical model process dependent on a
   dynamical model process control parameter set.
   Once the first three dimensional representation and optionally the second three dimensional
   representation, said CDP and said SKP have been generated, a set of data representing a
lo geometrical object may be generated and used to generate control software adapted to
   control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair.

                                                    8
   Definitions
   Surgical kit for cartilage repair is in this text to be understood as a customized pair of
   implant and implant guide adapted to a person or patient, scheduled for implant surgery,
   wherein the implant guide is configured to relieve and support the surgeon in implant
 5 surgery by guiding the implant to the wanted position and with the correct mounting angle
   on a person being subjected to implant surgery. If the implant is offset from its intended
   position it may cause an increased wear or load on the joint. A difficult task of a surgeon is to
   place or locate an implant. There is therefore a need for well-fitting implants as well as tools
   that are designed to relieve and support the surgeon in implant surgery. The design of the
 o implant and the guide, in other words the design of the surgical kit, is crucial for the outcome
   of the implants lifetime in a patients joint. Small differences in the placement or design of the
   implant can make a huge difference in the benefit and lifetime of an implant in the patient's
   body, convalescence time for the patient, economic values due to surgery time, success rate of
   implant surgery.
 5 Surface of a joint is in this text to be understood as a surface associated to cartilage, such
   as the inner surface of the cartilage connected to the bone or the outer surface of the
   cartilage.
   Radiology image data representing a three dimensional image of a joint is in this text to
   be understood as data arranged in a three dimensional array of voxels or pixels or multiple
 o ordered two dimensional images obtained at a predefined distance. The pixels may comprise
   pixel values of a predetermined resolution, e.g. 8, 16 or 32 bits, wherein the pixel values may
   indicate an intensity or greyscale value. In one example, radiology image data is in the form
   of a 3D array of voxels or pixels. Each voxel may have an intensity or greyscale value, e.g. in
   the range from o to 65535 in the 16-bit pixel case or 0 to 255 in the 8-bit pixel case. Most
 5 medical imaging systems generate images using 16-bit greyscale range. A 3D image typically
   has a large number of pixels and is very computational intensive for processing such as
   segmentation and pattern recognition. To reduce complexity and computational intensity
   three-dimensional representations of a first surface may be generated, e.g. in a process called
   segmentation.
,O Three-dimensional representation is in this text to be understood as data values
   arranged in a data structure, such as an array, representing a three dimensional (3D) surface.
   Such a 3D surface may be a selection of voxels from a 3D radiology image data, a three
   dimensional mesh, a parametric surface, a surface model or any other representation of a 3D
   surface known to a person skilled in the art.
35 Trainable process is in this text to be understood as a process with associated input data,
   such as image data, geometrical model and control parameters, and output data, such as a
   three dimensional representation, adapted with a training unit configured to evaluate the
   output data by generating a quality value and modifying the input data based on the quality
   value in order to iterate the process. The iterations may continue until the quality value
to exceeds a predefined threshold value.
   Image segmentation process is in this text to be understood as a process configured to
   partition image data in a semantically meaningful way to generate a three dimensional
   representation, e.g. identifying an articulating surface of a joint such as an inner surface of
   the cartilage connected to the bone, based on dynamical segmentation process control
45 parameters and radiology image data.

                                                     9
   Segmentation process control parameter set is in this text to be understood as control
   parameters controlling the image segmentation process and therefore the properties of a
   three dimensional representation generated by the image segmentation process. Examples of
   such parameters may be Desired hole radius, Number of classes to identify as different
 5 regions or tissue types, Error tolerance for clustering, grayscale values into different classes,
   Degree of smoothness on the classified regions, Number of iterations, down sample factor or
   Spline distance.
   Dynamical model process is in this text to be understood as a process configured to adapt
   a dynamical model of a surface to align with predetermined features of radiology image data,
 o such as undamaged cartilage tissue along a perimeter or an estimated surface of undamaged
   cartilage, to generate a second three dimensional representation based on dynamical model
   process control parameters and radiology image data.
   Dynamical model process control parameter set is in this text to be understood as
   control parameters controlling the dynamical model process and thereby properties of the
 5 generated three-dimensional representation.
   Perimeter is in this text to be understood as a perimeter delimiting a subset of a three
   dimensional representation.
   Cartilage damage perimeter (CDP) is in this text to be understood as a perimeter
   delimiting a subset of a first or second three dimensional representation. In one example, this
 o may comprise identifying the perimeter of an implant, part of a surgical kit, to be
   manufactured.
   Surgical kit perimeter (SKP) is in this text to be understood as a perimeter delimiting a
   subset of a first three dimensional representation. In one example, this may comprise
   identifying the perimeter of possible locations of a guide, part of a surgical kit, to be
 5 manufactured.
   Geometrical object is in this text to be understood as a geometrical object or volume
   delimited by a subset of the first three dimensional representation as the bottom, a subset of
   second three dimensional representation as the top and a surface interconnecting said top of
   the geometrical object and said bottom of the geometrical object. The subset of the first or
30 second three-dimensional representation may be delimited by a perimeter, such as the CDP
   or a surgical kit perimeter SKP.
   Control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system is in this text to be
   understood as data values represented by data structures comprising computer program code
   portions configured to direct a processor to perform display or manufacturing of a surgical
35 kit for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint
   Predetermined model of components is in this text to be understood as a model
   comprising an implant component and an implant guide component that may be adapted
   based on a geometrical object, radiology image data, a first three dimensional representation
   and a second three dimensional representation. In one example, the implant component is
lo adapted in size to replace damaged cartilage and the implant guide component is adapted to
   fit on the first and second three-dimensional representation, to enable fixation points to the
   first surface or bone, to enable correct positioning of the implant component and to enable
   the correct mounting angle for the implant component.

                                                     10
   Three dimensional representation quality value is in this text to be understood as a
   quality value determined on a predetermined relation based on a three dimensional
   representation. In one example, this might involve comparing three-dimensional
   representation to a reference surface, e.g. by generating a measure of distances between the
 5 surfaces in Euclidian space. In yet another example this might involve evaluating the
   smoothness of a three dimensional representation or the deviation of a three dimensional
   representation compared to a reference surface.
   The term 'comprising'as used in this specification and claims means 'consistingat least in
   partof. When interpretingstatements in this specification and claims which include the
 0 term 'comprising',otherfeatures besides thefeaturesprefaced by this term in each
   statement can also be present.Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised'are to be
   interpreted in a similar manner.Drawingsdescriptions
   Fig. 1a illustrates healthy joint 110 with bone 130 and cartilage tissue 120.
   Fig.  1b illustrates a damaged joint 140 with bone 150 and damaged cartilage tissue 160.
 5 Fig. 2a illustrates a side view intersection of a generated first three dimensional
   representation of a first surface 260 of the joint, a generated second three dimensional
   representation of a second surface of the joint 230, a generated cartilage damage perimeter
   CDP 250 and a generated surgical kit perimeter SKP 270 in accordance with one or more
   embodiments of the present disclosure. Fig. 2a further illustrates how said second three
 0 dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint 230 is aligned to remaining
   cartilage tissue outer surface.
   Fig. 2b illustrates a top view of a generated first three dimensional representation of a first
   surface of the joint 260, a generated cartilage damage perimeter CDP 250 and a generated
   surgical kit perimeter SKP 270 in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present
 5 disclosure.
   Fig. 3a shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a generated first three-dimensional
   representation 330 of a first surface of the joint, a generated second three-dimensional
   representation 320 of a second surface of the joint and a geometrical object 350. In one or
   more embodiments the geometrical object is generated based on the CDP, the first three
3o dimensional representation and the second three dimensional representation. In one or more
   embodiments said first three-dimensional representation 330 is represented in the form of
   selected voxels in the radiology image data, a polygon mesh, an anatomical model or a
   parametric surface.
   In one non-limiting example an implant mounting position is determined as a position on the
35 first three dimensional representation comprised by CDP and an implant mounting angle is
   determined as the normal or surface normal vector of the first three dimensional
   representation. A first subset of said first three-dimensional representation is determined
   based on the CDP. The CDP is further translated along an axis represented by the implant
   mounting angle to the second three dimensional representation and second subset of said
to first three dimensional representation is determined based on the translated CDP. A
   geometric object is then generated based on the first subset, the second subset and a surface
   interconnecting said first subset and second subset.

                                                      11
   Fig. 3b illustrates a surgical kit manufactured based on control software adapted to control a
   CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on a set of
   data representing a geometrical object and on a predetermined model of components of said
   surgical kit according to the method of the present disclosure. In one or more embodiments,
 5 the predetermined model of components comprises an implant component 350 and an
   implant guide component 360. In one or more embodiments, the predetermined model of
   components further comprises an implant support component 370. In one or more
   embodiments, the implant component is adapted based on the geometrical object. In one or
   more embodiments, the implant guide component is adapted based on the geometrical object
 0 and SKP.
   In one non-limiting example, the implant component is adapted by scaling and rotating the
   implant component so that it is comprised in said geometrical object and so that the top or
   outer surface of the implant component is aligned with the geometrical object, thereby also
   aligning with the undamaged cartilage tissue.
 5 To design and manufacture a customized surgical kit for cartilage repair in an articulating
   surface of a joint it is necessary to identify a reference surface, such as the bone underlying
   the cartilage tissue. This reference surface is identified by extracting a first surface from
   radiology image data, e.g. by generating a first three dimensional representation of a first
   surface in a radiology image segmentation process dependent on a segmentation process
 0 control parameter set. The quality and accuracy of this generated first three-dimensional
   representation or surface depend on the segmentation process control parameter set and may
   vary for the individual patient and for individual types of joints, e.g. knee, toe, elbow etc. To
   further quality and accuracy of this generated first three-dimensional representation, the
   segmentation process control parameter set may be obtained through parameter training.
 5 Parameter training generally comprise attempting to fit a certain model, e.g. an objective
   function, to observed data such as a first three dimensional representation of a first surface.
   Fig. 4 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a method for a trainable image
   segmentation process according to the present disclosure. In one or more embodiment a first
   three dimensional representation 460 of a first surface of the joint is generated in a trainable
)0 image segmentation process 450 dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set 430 and radiology image data 410. In one or more embodiments, the method
   further comprises:
   I) obtaining a predefined ordered set of segmentation process control parameters instances;
   II) generating a first three dimensional representation 460 of said first surface based on the
35 first instance of said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology
   image data;
   III) store said first three-dimensional representation in a memory or data buffer 480
   IV) generating a first three dimensional representation 460 of said first surface based on the
   next instance of said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology
to image data;
   V) store said first three-dimensional representation in a data buffer 480
   III) repeating steps I and II for all instances of said predefined ordered set;

                                                    12
   IV) determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set 490 based
   on a first three dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first three dimensional
   representation quality value is based on said three dimensional representations stored in the
   data buffer 480, said predefined ordered set and a predetermined object function.
 5 In one non-limiting example, a predefined number of instances of segmentation process
   control parameters are obtained as an ordered set, e.g. ten previously used parameter sets
   used in a segmentation process. A first three dimensional representation is generated for
   each instance of segmentation process control parameters and stored in a data buffer or
   memory. An object function, e.g. a measure of how a segmented surface deviate from a
 0 reference surface such as a parametric surface, is used to determine a first three-dimensional
   representation quality value. An updated trained segmentation process control parameter set
   is then determined, e.g. by selecting an instance from the ordered set based on the first three
   dimensional representation quality value, by combining instances from the ordered set based
   on the first three dimensional representation quality value or to generate a new instance of a
 5 trained segmentation process control parameter set. In alternative embodiments, any
   objective function known to the skilled person may be used, such as roughness Measures for
   3D surfaces/meshes.
   Fig. 5 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a trainable image segmentation process
   according to method of the present disclosure. In one or more embodiment a first three
 0 dimensional representation 56o of a first surface of the joint in a trainable image
   segmentation process 550 dependent on a trained segmentation process control parameter
   set 530 and radiology image data 510. In one or more embodiments, the method further
   comprises:
   I) obtaining an initial segmentation process control parameter set 520;
 5 II) determining a trained segmentation process control parameter set 530 as said initial
   segmentation process control parameter set 520;
   III) generating a first three dimensional representation 56o of said first surface based on said
   trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image data;
   IV) determining 570 a differential trained segmentation process control parameter set 540
3o based on a first three dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first three
   dimensional representation quality value is based on said three dimensional representation
   56o and a predetermined object function.
   V) determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set 530 based on
   said trained segmentation process control parameter set 520 and said differential trained
35 segmentation process control parameter set 540
   VI) repeating steps III-VI above if said first three dimensional representation quality value is
   below or above a predefined quality value threshold.
   In one non-limiting example, an initial segmentation process control parameter set is
   obtained, e.g. as previously used and stored segmentation process control parameter set. The
lo initial segmentation process control parameter set is determined as a trained segmentation
   process control parameter set and used together with received radiology image data,
   descriptive of a joint, in a trained segmentation process to generate a first three dimensional

                                                    13
   representation. The generated first three-dimensional representation is evaluated by a
   predetermined object function, e.g. a measure of how a segmented surface deviate from a
   reference surface, to obtain a first three-dimensional representation quality value. A
   differential trained segmentation process control parameter set is determined based on a first
 5 three dimensional representation quality value, e.g. by applying predetermined delta values
   to said trained segmentation process control parameter set or by performing a lookup in a
   predetermined table comprising trained segmentation process control parameter sets and
   first three dimensional representation quality values. An updated trained segmentation
   process control parameter set is further determined based on said differential trained
 0 segmentation process control parameter set and said trained segmentation process control
   parameter set. The method steps may then be repeated until it is determined that said first
   three-dimensional representation quality value is below, above or equal to a predefined
   quality value threshold.
   Fig. 6 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a trainable dynamical model process
 5 according to method of the present disclosure. In one or more embodiments a second three
   dimensional representation 660 of a second surface of the joint in a trainable dynamical
   model process 650 dependent on a trained dynamical model process control parameter set
   630 and radiology image data 610. In one or more embodiments, the method further
   comprises:
 0 X) obtaining an initial dynamical model process control parameter set 620;
   XI) determining a trained dynamical model process control parameter set 630 as said initial
   dynamical model process control parameter set 620;
   XII) generating a second three dimensional representation 660 of said second surface based
   on said trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said radiology image data
 5 610;
   XIII) determining 670 a differential trained dynamical model process control parameter set
   640 based on a three-dimensional representation quality value, wherein said three
   dimensional representation quality value is based on said three-dimensional representation
   660.
30 XIV) determining an updated trained dynamical model process control parameter set 630
   based on said trained dynamical model process control parameter set 620 and said
   differential trained dynamical model process control parameter set 640;
   XV) repeating steps X-XV above if said three dimensional representation quality value is
   below or above a predefined quality value threshold.
35 In one or more embodiments, wherein generating a second three dimensional representation
   is further based on a dynamical model, such as an anatomical model or a parametric surface.
   In one non-limiting example, an initial dynamical model process control parameter set is
   obtained, e.g. as the previously used and stored dynamical model process control parameter
   set. The initial dynamical model process control parameter set is determined as a trained
to dynamical model process control parameter set and used together with received radiology
   image data, descriptive of a joint, in a trained dynamical model process to generate a second
   three dimensional representation. The generated second three-dimensional representation is

                                                   14
   evaluated by a predetermined object function, e.g. a measure of how the generated second
   three-dimensional representation deviate from a reference surface, to obtain a second three
   dimensional representation quality value. A differential trained dynamical model process
   control parameter set is determined based on a second three dimensional representation
 5 quality value, e.g. by applying predetermined delta values to said trained dynamical model
   process control parameter set or by performing a lookup in a predetermined table comprising
   trained dynamical model process control parameter sets and second three dimensional
   representation quality values. An updated trained dynamical model process control
   parameter set is further determined based on said differential trained dynamical model
 0 process control parameter set and said trained dynamical model process control parameter
   set. The method steps may then be repeated until it is determined that said second three
   dimensional representation quality value is below, above or equal to a predefined quality
   value threshold.
   Fig. 7 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of a system for manufacturing a surgical kit
 5 for cartilage repair. In one or more embodiments the system comprises a diagnosis center
   710 with a diagnosis processor 713 configured to accept user indications as diagnosis data
   indicative of cartilage damage and patient 714 related information via a user input/output
   device 711. The diagnosis processor 713 is further configured to send the diagnosis data via a
   communications network 740 to a radiology-imaging center 720. The radiology-imaging
 0 center 720 further comprises an imaging processor 723 configured to present diagnosis data
   to a user, to obtain radiology image data from a radiology image device 724, e.g. a CT or MR
   scanner, and to send diagnosis data and radiology image data as a signal via a
   communications network 740 to an implant design center. The implant design center
   comprises a processor 733 configured to receive diagnosis data and radiology image data and
 5 optionally store said diagnosis data and radiology image data to memory 732. The processor
   733 is further configured to generating a first three dimensional representation of a first
   surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained
   segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image data, generating a
   second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in a trainable
 0 dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data; generating a cartilage damage perimeter CDP
   based on said radiology image data, generating a set of data representing a geometrical object
   based on said first surface, said second surface and said CDP, wherein said geometrical object
   represent identified cartilage damage, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said
35 first surface, said second surface and said CDP, generating control software adapted to
   control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on
   said set of data representing a geometrical object and on a predetermined model of
   components of said surgical kit. The processor 733 is further configured to send said control
   software to an implant production center 740. The implant production center 740 comprises
to a processor 743 configured to receive control software and optionally store said diagnosis
   data and radiology image data to memory 742. The processor 743 is further configured to
   control a production line to manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair based on said
   received control software.
   Fig. 8 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of an implant design center adapted to
45 generate control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a surgical
   kit for cartilage repair. In one or more embodiments, an implant design center, e.g. in the
   form of a tablet computer, laptop computer or desktop computer. Said implant design center

                                                    15
   is configured for generating control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to
   manufacture a surgical kit for cartilage repair. The design center further comprises a
   processor/processing unit 81o provided with specifically designed programming or program
   code portions adapted to control the processing unit 81o to perform the steps and functions
 5 of embodiments of the methods described herein. The computer system further comprises at
   least one memory 830 configured to store data values or parameters received from the
   processor 81o or to retrieve and send data values or parameters to the processor 81o. In one
   or more embodiments, the design center further comprises a display configured to receive a
   signal from the processor 81o and to display the received signal as a displayed image, e.g. to a
 0 user of the design center. In one or more embodiments, the design center further comprises a
   user input device 825 configured to receive indications from a user and to generate data
   indicative of user input, thereby enabling the user to interact with the implant design center.
   The user input device 825 is further configured to send the generated data as a signal to said
   processor 81o. In one or more embodiments computer system further comprises a
 5 communications interface 840 configured to send or receive data values or parameters
   to/from a processor 81o to/from external units via the communications interface 840. In one
   or more embodiments the communications interface 840 is configured to communicate via a
   communications network.
   FURTHER EMBODIMENTS
 0 Fig. 9 shows a flowchart of a computer-implemented method to manufacturing a surgical kit
   for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint. In one or more embodiments, the
   method comprises the steps of:
   receiving 910 radiology image data representing three-dimensional image of a joint;
   generating 920 a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
 5 trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating 950 a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface;
   generating 970 control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
30 surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   Fig. 10 shows a flowchart of a computer-implemented method to manufacturing a surgical kit
   for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint. In one or more embodiments, the
   method comprises the steps of:
35 receiving  1010  radiology image data representing three-dimensional image of a joint;
   generating 1020 a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
   trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating 1030 a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in
to a trainable dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process
   control parameter set and said radiology image data;

                                                    16
   generating 1060 a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   and said second surface, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface and
   said second;
   generating 1070 control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
 5 surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   Fig. 11 shows a flowchart of a computer-implemented method to manufacturing a surgical kit
   for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint. In one or more embodiments, the
   method comprises the steps of:
 0 receiving  1110 radiology image data representing three-dimensional image of a joint;
   generating 1120 a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
   trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating 1130 a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in
 5 a trainable dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process
   control parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating   1140  a cartilage damage perimeter CDP based on said radiology image data;
   generating 1160 a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   said second surface and said CDP, wherein said geometrical object represent identified
 0 cartilage damage, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface, said
   second surface and said CDP;
   generating 1170 control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
   surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
 5 Fig. 12 shows a flowchart of a computer-implemented method to manufacturing a surgical kit
   for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint. In one or more embodiments, the
   method comprises the steps of:
   receiving  1210  radiology image data representing three-dimensional image of a joint;
   generating 1220 a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
30 trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
   parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating 1230 a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in
   a trainable dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process
   control parameter set and said radiology image data;
35 generating   1250  a surgical kit perimeter SKP based on said radiology image data;
   generating 1260 a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   said second surface and said SKP, wherein said geometrical object represent identified
   cartilage damage, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface, said
   second surface and said SKP;

                                                    17
   generating 1270 control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
   surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   Fig. 13 shows a flowchart of a computer-implemented method to manufacturing a surgical kit
 5 for cartilage repair in an articulating surface of a joint. In one or more embodiments, the
   method comprises the steps of:
   receiving  1310  radiology image data representing three-dimensional image of a joint;
   generating 1320 a first three dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
   trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process control
 0 parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating 1330 a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the joint in
   a trainable dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model process
   control parameter set and said radiology image data;
   generating   1340  a cartilage damage perimeter CDP based on said radiology image data;
 5 generating   1350  a surgical kit perimeter SKP based on said radiology image data;
   generating 1360 a set of data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface,
   said second surface, said SKP and said CDP, wherein said geometrical object represent
   identified cartilage damage, wherein said geometrical object is confined by said first surface,
   said second surface, said SKP and said CDP;
 0 generating 1370 control software adapted to control a CAD or CAM system to manufacture a
   surgical kit for cartilage repair dependent on said set of data representing a geometrical
   object and on a predetermined model of components of said surgical kit.
   In one or more embodiments, the implant design center system comprises a processor unit
   (e.g., a processor, microcontroller, or other circuit or integrated circuit capable of executing
 5 instructions to perform various processing operations)
   In one or more embodiments, an implant design center with non-transitory machine
   readable medium on which is stored machine-readable code that, when executed by a
   processor of a remote inspection system, cause the processor to perform the methods
   described herein.
30 In one or more embodiments, a computer program product comprising computer readable
   code configured to, when executed in a processor, perform any or all of the method steps
   described herein.
   Where applicable, various embodiments provided by the present disclosure can be
   implemented using hardware, software, or combinations of hardware and software. In
35 addition, where applicable, the various hardware components and/or software components
   set forth herein can be combined into composite components comprising software, hardware,
   and/or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable,
   the various hardware components and/or software components set forth herein can be
   separated into sub-components comprising software, hardware, or both without departing

                                                 18
  from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition, where applicable, it is contemplated
  that software components can be implemented as hardware components, and vice-versa.
  Software in accordance with the present disclosure, such as non-transitory instructions,
  program code, and/or data, can be stored on one or more non-transitory machine-readable
5 mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein can be implemented using
  one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and/or computer systems,
  networked and/or otherwise. Where applicable, the ordering of various steps described
  herein can be changed, combined into composite steps, and/or separated into sub-steps to
  provide features described herein.
o Embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the invention. It should also be
  understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the
  principles of the invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is defined only by the
  following claims.

                                                  19
   CLAIMS
   1.  A method of generating a three dimensional representation of a joint, comprising the
        steps of:
       receiving radiology image data representing images of a joint in three dimensions; and
 5     generating a first three-dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
       trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process
        control parameter set and said radiology image data, wherein the trained segmentation
       process control parameter set is generated by iteratively updating, over a plurality of
       three-dimensional representations of the first surface, a segmentation process control
 o     parameter set based on a three-dimensional representation quality value determined
       for each of the plurality of three-dimensional representations.
   2.  The method of claim    1, further comprising generating a set of data representing a
       geometrical object based on said first surface, wherein said geometrical object
       represents identified damage and is confined by said first surface.
 5 3.  The method of claim    1  or 2, further comprising generating a second three-dimensional
       representation of a second surface of the joint in a trainable dynamical model process
        dependent on a trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said
       radiology image data.
   4.  The method of claims     2 and 3, further comprising generating a set of data representing
 o      a geometrical object further based on said second three-dimensional representation,
       wherein said geometrical object is further confined by said second surface.
   5.  The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein the first surface of the joint is the underlying bone,
        and the second surface of the joint is aligned to undamaged cartilage tissue outer
        surface.
25 6.  The method of claim    2,  further comprising generating a cartilage damage perimeter
        (CDP) based on said radiology image data , wherein generating a set of data
       representing a geometrical object includes generating said set of data based on said
        CDP, wherein said geometrical object is further confined by said CDP.
   7.  The method of claim    2,  further comprising generating a surgical kit perimeter (SKP)
30     based on said radiology image data , wherein generating a set of data representing a
       geometrical object includes generating said set of data based on said SKP, wherein said
       geometrical object is further confined by said SKP.

                                                    20
   8. The method of claim      1, wherein generating the first three-dimensional representation
       of a first surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process further
       comprises the steps:
       obtaining a predefined number of instances of a trained segmentation process control
 5    parameter set;
      for each instance of the trained segmentation process control parameter set:
              generating a three-dimensional representation of said first surface of the joint
      based on the respective instance of said trained segmentation process control
      parameter set and said radiology image data, and
 0            storing the generated three-dimensional representation of the first surface of the
      joint in a data buffer; and
              determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set
      based on a first three-dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first
      three-dimensional representation quality value is based on said three-dimensional
 5    representations stored in the data buffer, said predefined number of instances, and a
      predetermined object function.
   9. The method of claim      1, wherein generating the first three-dimensional representation
       of a first surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation process further
       comprises the steps:
 0     I) obtaining an initial segmentation process control parameter set;
       II) determining a trained segmentation process control parameter set as said initial
       segmentation process control parameter set;
       III) generating a first three-dimensional representation of said first surface of the joint
      based on said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology
25    image data;
       IV) determining a differential trained segmentation process control parameter set
      based on a first-three dimensional representation quality value, wherein said first
      three-dimensional representation quality value is based on said three-dimensional
      representation of said first surface of the joint, generated based on said trained
30     segmentation process control parameter set and said radiology image data, and a
      predetermined object function;

                                                 21
       V) determining an updated trained segmentation process control parameter set based
       on said trained segmentation process control parameter set and said differential
       trained segmentation process control parameter set;
       VI) repeating steps I-V above if said first three-dimensional representation quality
 5     value is below or above a predefined quality value threshold.
   10. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the second three-dimensional
       representation of a second surface of the joint in a trainable image segmentation
       process further comprises the steps:
       I) obtaining an initial dynamical model process control parameter set;
 0     II) determining a trained dynamical model process control parameter set as said initial
       dynamical model process control parameter set;
       III) generating a second three-dimensional representation of said second surface based
       on said trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said radiology
       image data;
 5     IV) determining a differential trained dynamical model process control parameter set
       based on a three-dimensional representation quality value, wherein said three
       dimensional representation quality value is based on said second three-dimensional
       representation of said second surface of the joint generated based on said trained
       dynamical model process control parameter set and said radiology image data;
 0     V) determining an updated trained dynamical model process control parameter set
       based on said trained dynamical model process control parameter set and said
       differential trained dynamical model process control parameter set;
       VI) repeating steps I-V above if said three dimensional representation quality value is
       below or above a predefined quality value threshold.
25 11. The method of claim    1, wherein said radiology image data is based on a selection of X
       ray, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine, positron emission
       tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
   12. A system for generating a three dimensional representation of a joint, the system
       comprising:
30     a memory;
       a communications interface; and

                                                   22
        a processor coupled to the memory and communications interface, the processor
        configured to perform the steps of:
       receiving radiology image data representing images of a joint in three dimensions; and
       generating a first three-dimensional representation of a first surface of the joint in a
 5     trainable image segmentation process dependent on a trained segmentation process
        control parameter set and said radiology image data, wherein the trained segmentation
       process control parameter set is generated by iteratively updating, over a plurality of
       three-dimensional representations of the first surface, a segmentation process control
       parameter set based on a three-dimensional representation quality value determined
 o     for each of the plurality of three-dimensional representations.
   13. The system of claim    12,  wherein the processor is further configured to generate a set of
        data representing a geometrical object based on said first surface, wherein said
       geometrical object represents identified damage and is confined by said first surface.
   14. The system of claim    12  or 13, wherein the processor is further configured to perform the
 5      step of generating a second three dimensional representation of a second surface of the
       joint in a trainable dynamical model process dependent on a trained dynamical model
       process control parameter set and said radiology image data.
   15. The system of claims 13 and 14, wherein the processor is further configured to perform
       the step of generating the set of data representing the geometrical object further based
 o      on said second surface, so that said geometrical object is further confined by said
        second surface.
   16. The system of claim    14  or 15, wherein the first surface of the joint is the underlying
       bone, and the second surface of the joint is aligned to undamaged cartilage tissue outer
        surface.
25 17. The system of claim    12,  wherein the processor is further configured to perform any of
       the steps of claims  2-11.
   18. A computer program product comprising computer readable code configured to, when
        executed in a processor, perform the method steps of claims        1-11.
   19. A non-transitory computer readable memory on which is stored computer readable
30      code configured to, when executed in a processor, perform the method steps of claims
        1-11.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
