1002094185
           ABSTRACT
           Methods and systems for performing laser-assisted surgery on an eye form one or more small
anchoring capsulotomies in the lens capsule of the eye. The one or more anchoring capsulotomies are
configured to accommodate corresponding anchoring features of an intraocular lens and/or to
accommodate one or more drug-eluting members. A method for performing laser-assisted eye surgery
on an eye having a lens capsule includes forming an anchoring capsulotomy in the lens capsule and
coupling an anchoring feature of the intraocular lens with the anchoring capsulotomy. The anchoring
capsulotomy is formed by using a laser to incise the lens capsule. The anchoring feature can protrude
transverse to a surface of the intraocular lens that interfaces with the lens capsule adjacent to the
anchoring capsulotomy.

   1002094185
                         MICROFEMTOTOMY METHODS AND SYSTEMS
                       CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present application is a divisional of parent application 2014237804, the contents of which
   are incorporated herein by reference.
 5                                           BACKGROUND
    [00011 Cataract extraction is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures in the
   world. A cataract is formed by opacification of the crystalline lens or its envelope - the lens
   capsule - of the eye. The cataract obstructs passage of light through the lens. A cataract can vary
   in degree from slight to complete opacity. Early in the development of an age-related cataract the
10 power of the lens may be increased, causing near-sightedness (myopia). Gradual yellowing and
   opacification of the lens may reduce the perception of blue colors as those wavelengths are
   absorbed and scattered within the crystalline lens. Cataract formation typically progresses slowly
   resulting in progressive vision loss. Cataracts are potentially blinding if untreated.
   [0002] A common cataract treatment involves replacing the opaque crystalline lens with an
15 artificial intraocular lens (IOL). Presently, an estimated 15 million cataract surgeries per year are
   performed worldwide. The cataract treatment market is composed of various segments including
   intraocular lenses for implantation, viscoelastic polymers to facilitate surgical maneuvers, and
   disposable instrumentation including ultrasonic phacoemulsification tips, tubing, various knives,
   and forceps.
20 [00031     Presently,  cataract  surgery   is typically   performed    using a     technique termed
   phacoemulsification in which an ultrasonic tip with associated irrigation and aspiration ports is
   used to sculpt the relatively hard nucleus of the lens to facilitate removal through an opening
   made in the anterior lens capsule. The nucleus of the lens is contained within an outer membrane
   of the lens that is referred to as the lens capsule. Access to the lens nucleus can be provided by
25 performing an anterior capsulotomy in which a small round hole is formed in the anterior side of
   the lens capsule. Access to the lens nucleus can also be provided by performing a manual
   continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis (CCC) procedure. After removal of the lens nucleus, a
   synthetic foldable intraocular lens (IOL) can be inserted into the remaining lens capsule of the
   eye through a small incision.
                                                      1

     1002094185
     Typically, the IOL is held in place by the edges of the anterior capsule and the capsular bag. The
     IOL may also be held by the posterior capsule, either alone or in unison with the anterior
     capsule. This latter configuration is known in the field as a "Bag-in-Lens" implant.
      [00041 One of the most technically challenging and critical steps in the cataract extraction
  5  procedure is providing access to the lens nucleus. The manual continuous curvilinear
     capsulorhexis    (CCC) procedure      evolved from an earlier technique         termed can-opener
     capsulotomy in which a sharp needle was used to perforate the anterior lens capsule in a circular
     fashion followed by the removal of a circular fragment of lens capsule typically in the range of
     5-8 mm in diameter. The smaller the capsulotomy, the more difficult it is to produce manually.
 10  The capsulotomy facilitates the next step of nuclear sculpting by phacoemulsification. Due to a
     variety of complications associated with the initial can-opener technique, attempts were made by
     leading experts in the field to develop a better technique for removal of the anterior lens capsule
     preceding the emulsification step.
     [0005] The desired outcome of the manual continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis is to provide a
15   smooth continuous circular opening through which not only the phacoemulsification of the
    nucleus can be performed safely and easily, but also to provide for easy insertion of the
     intraocular lens. The resulting opening in the anterior capsule provides both a clear central access
    for tool insertion during removal of the nucleus and for IOL insertion, a permanent aperture for
    transmission of the image to the retina of the patient, and also support of the IOL inside the
20  remaining capsule that limits the potential for dislocation. The resulting reliance on the shape,
    symmetry, uniformity, and strength of the remaining capsule to contain, constrain, position, and
    maintain the IOL in the patient's eye limits the placement accuracy of the IOL, both initially and
    over time. Subsequently, a patient's refractive outcome and resultant visual acuity are less
    deterministic and intrinsically sub-optimal due to the IOL placement uncertainty. This is
25  especially true for astigmatism correcting ("toric") and accommodating ("presbyopic") IOLs.
     [0006] Problems may also develop related to inability of the surgeon to adequately visualize the
    capsule due to lack of red reflex, to grasp the capsule with sufficient security, and to tear a
    smooth circular opening in the capsule of the appropriate size and in the correct location without
    creating radial rips and extensions. Also present are technical difficulties related to maintenance
30  of the depth of the anterior chamber depth after opening the capsule, small size of the pupil, or
    the absence of a red reflex due to the lens opacity. Some of the problems with visualization can
                                                       2

     1002094185
     be minimized through the use of dyes such as methylene blue or indocyanine green. Additional
     complications may also arise in patients with weak zonules (typically older patients) and very
     young children that have very soft and elastic capsules, which are very difficult to controllably
     and reliably rupture and tear.
  5  [0007] The implantation of a "Bag-in-Lens" IOL typically uses anterior and posterior openings
     in the lens capsule of the same size. Manually creating matching anterior and posterior
     capsulotomies for the "Bag-in-Lens" configuration, however, is particularly difficult.
     [0008] Many cataract patients have astigmatic visual errors. Astigmatism can occur when the
     corneal curvature is unequal in all directions. IOLs can be used to correct for astigmatism but
10  require precise rotational and central placement. Additionally, IOLs are not typically used for
    correction beyond 5D of astigmatism. Many patients, however, have astigmatic visual errors
    exceeding 5D. Higher correction beyond 5D typically requires reshaping the cornea to make it
    more spherical. There are numerous existing approaches for reshaping the cornea, including
    Comeaplasty, Astigmatic Keratotomy, Corneal Relaxing Incision (CRT), and Limbal Relaxing
15  Incision (LRI). In Astigmatic Keratotomy, Corneal Relaxing Incision (CRI), and Limbal
    Relaxing Incision (LRI), corneal incisions are made in a well-defined manner and depth to allow
    the cornea to change shape to become more spherical. Presently, these corneal incisions are
    typically accomplished manually often with limited precision.
     [0009] There are also many ongoing ophthalmic needs that are less than ideally addressed by the
20  prior methods for time-release of a drug.
    [0010] Thus, improved methods and systems for treating eyes are needed.
    [0010A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
    that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this
    prior art could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled
25  person in the art.
                                                     3

   1002094185
                                               SUMMARY
   [0011] Methods and apparatus are provided for the creation of either one or more anchoring
   capsulotomies, which may comprise microfemtotomies. The anchoring capsulotomies such as
   microfemtotomies may engage with complementary anchoring features on an intraocular lens for
 5 intracapsular, anterior, and/or posterior chamber placement. The anchoring capsulotomies and/or
   microfemtotomies may also be used to anchor capsular fixated drug-eluting implants.
   [0012] Although specific reference is made to the removal and treatment of a cataract, the
   methods and apparatus as described herein can be used with one or more of many surgical
   procedures, for example anchoring incisions of a non-cataractous eye of a patient.
10 [0013] In many embodiments, a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies is created in a lens capsule
   of an eye and an intraocular lens (IOL) is then coupled to the lens capsule by mechanically
   engaging anchoring features of the IOL to the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies. The IOL may
   comprise a
                                                  3A

 non-accommodating IOL or an accommodating IOL. And in many embodiments, an axial
 orientation to be established between the IOL and the lens capsule is determined. The eye may
 comprise a rotational axis, and the pattern can be located so as to align an axis the IOL or other
 implant with an intended axis of the eye. In many embodiments, the IOL may comprise an
 aberration correction, for example astigmatism or other aberration along an axis such as a higher
 order aberration, and the pattern of anchoring features can be placed on the eye at locations that align
 the axis of the IOL or other implant with the axis of the eye. In many embodiments, an axis of an
 astigmatic correction is determined, and the pattern rotated on the eye to locate the small
 capsulotomies to receive features of the IOL such that the IOL is placed at a vision correcting axis
 and rotation of the IOL away from the axis is inhibited when placed. Alternatively or in
 combination, the small capsulotomies can be located so as to align a center of the IOL with the
 optical axis of the eye. In many embodiments, a processor comprises a computer readable medium
having instructions embodied thereon to determine angular locations of the small capsulotomies on
the eye in order to align an axis of the IOL or other implant with the axis of the eye, In many
 embodiments, the anchoring features comprise a pre-determined angular orientation with respect to
the aberration correcting axis of the IOL, and the small capsulotomies are located to align the
 aberration correcting axis of the IOL with the aberration axis of the eye.
 [00141 The anchoring capsulotomies can be located to accomplish the determined axial orientation
upon assembly or unrolling of the IOL with the lens capsule. Accordingly, an IOL can be held in a
desired position and orientation relative to the lens capsule, thereby avoiding undesirable aspects
related to having an IOL shift position and/or orientation relative to the lens capsule. The IOL can
also be located in different locations within the eye including, but not limited to, in an anterior
chamber of the eye, in a capsular bag of the eye, on the anterior side of a posterior capsule of the
eye, or on the posterior side of an anterior capsule of the eye. Such flexibility in the location of the
IOL within the eye provides increased treatment flexibility, such as the ability to install a second
IOL anteriorly to an IOL that was previously implanted.
 [0015] In one aspect, a method of ophthalmic intervention is provided. The method includes
creating a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies in a lens capsule of an eye. The pattern of anchoring
capsulotomies is configured to be mechanically coupled to anchoring features of an intraocular lens
(TOL). The IOL is then coupled to the lens capsule by mechanically engaging the anchoring features
of the IOL with the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies
                                                    4

  [00161 In another aspect, "micro-fermtotomies", or small capsulotomies, are formed in the lens
 capsule to position and orient an IOL. The IOL can even be "piggybacked" above an existing IOL.
 Piggybacking an IOL above an existing IOL may be desired when an optical adjustment is required
 and it is desired to avoid the intrusiveness and risks of removing the original IOL. Such an optical
 adjustment may be required as a result of, for example, the growth of a child's eyes, etc. If the
 original IOL is seated well, but not in the right place, a well positioned piggyback IOL can be used
 to balance the patient's optical system. The overlaying IOL can provide cylindrical/toric optical
 corrections, can be made thicker in one region and thinner in another, or can utilize refractive index
 profiles for aberration control.
 [00171 The small capsulotomies can be made using a variety of shapes. Non-radially symmetric
 shapes such as lines, rectangles, squares, and ellipses can be used to complement features on the
 device to be implanted in order to hold the features.
 [0018] In many embodiments, methods and apparatus are provided for improved delivery of
therapeutic agents such as drugs. Non-limiting examples of applications for the methods disclosed
herein for time-release of a drug include glaucoma medications, anti-vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) treatments, and the release of therapeutic agents such as diclofenac sodium, ketorolac
tromethamine, and cytotoxic LEC-specific genes to combat PCO. Additional non-limiting examples
include other compounds that improve the chemical diffusion or pumping of the cornea. Typical
time-release drug placement is achieved by means of their injection into a surgically produced
pocket within the eye, which provides a comparatively unstable platform. In contrast, an improved
approach is provided that does not involve sutures or other physical restraints. In an embodiment, a
microfeintotomy is used to support a drug-eluting device or pellet.
10019] The creation of such small capsulotomies, especially with smoothly rounded edges, is
practically impossible to perform manually. Additionally, plasma-mediated (or photo disruptive)
capsulotomies are actually stronger than manually created capsulorhexses. This is a surprising result
because there is a bounty of medical and scientific literature reporting that attempts to use energy
driven devices for capsulotomy have always yielded inferior incision edge strength when compared
to manual capsulorhexsis. The increased strength of plasma-mediated capsulotomies further
enhances the importance of the present inventive approach to the creation of microfemtotomy, or
small laser-created capsulotomy.
                                                     5

                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0020] A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present disclosure will be
obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments,
in which the principles of the disclosure are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
 [0021] Figure 1 shows a schematic representation of an embodiment of a system capable of creating
anchoring capsulotomies, in accordance with many embodiments;
 [0022] Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of another embodiment of a system, which
utilizes optical multiplexing to deliver treatment and imaging light, capable of creating anchoring
capsulotomies, in accordance with many embodiments;
[0023] Figure 3 shows a schematic representation of another embodiment of a system, which
utilizes an alternate imaging system, capable of creating anchoring capsulotomies, in accordance
with many embodiments;
[0024) Figure 4 shows a schematic representation of another embodiment of a system, which
utilizes another alternate imaging system configuration, capable of creating anchoring capsultomies,
in accordance with many embodiments;
[00251 Figures 5A and 5B shows example anchoring capsulotomies for constraining an IOL, in
accordance with many embodiments;
[0026] Figures 6A and 6B show an IOL being constrained within the lens capsule using anchoring
capsulotomies, in accordance with an embodiment, in accordance with many embodiments;
[0027] Figures 7A through 7C show example anchoring capsulotomy shapes, including buttonhole
incisions, in accordance with many embodiments;
[00281 Figures 8A and 8B show an IOL being implanted over an existing lens using anchoring
capsulotomies, in accordance with an embodiment, in accordance with many embodiments;
[00291 Figures 9A through 9D show examples of different IOL anchoring capsulotomy
configurations, in accordance with many embodiments;
[00301 Figure 10 shows using an anchoring capsulotomy to accommodate an implanted drug
eluting device, in accordance with an embodiment, in accordance with many embodiments;
[0031] Figure 11 shows an alternate configuration of an implantable drug-eluting device that is
accommodated by an anchoring capsulotomy, in accordance with many embodiments;
[0032] Figure 12 shows another alternate configuration of an implantable drug-eluting device that is
accommodated by an anchoring capsulotomy, in accordance with many embodiments;
                                                    6

  [00331 Figures 13A and 13B show an alternate configuration of an implanted drug-eluting device
 that is accommodated in different locations by anchoring capsulotomies, in accordance with many
 embodiments;
  [0034] Figure 14 illustrates a method for creating an anchoring capsulotomy and coupling an
 anchoring feature of an intraocular lens with the anchoring capsulotomy, in accordance with many
 embodiments, in accordance with many embodiments;
  [0035] Figure 15 illustrates a method for creating an anchoring capsulotomy and removably
 coupling a drug-eluting member to the anchoring capsulotomy, in accordance with many
 embodiments;
 [00361 Figure 16 illustrates a method 650 of ophthalmic intervention, in accordance with many
 embodiments.
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [00371 In the following description, various embodiments of the present disclosure will be
 described. For purposes of explanation, specific configurations and details are set forth in order to
provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However, it will also be apparent to one
 skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without the specific details.
 Furthermore, well-known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the
 embodiment being described.
 [0038] Methods and systems for performing laser-assisted eye surgery are provided in which one or
more small anchoring capsulotomies are formed in the lens capsule of an eye. The one or more
anchoring capsulotomies can be used to accommodate one or more corresponding anchoring features
of an intraocular lens (IOL), thereby restraining the IOL relative to the lens capsule. An anchoring
capsulotomy can also be used to accommodate a drug-eluting member to deliver a therapeutic agent
over time. The anchoring capsulotomies can also be used to restrain and orient a "piggy back" IOL
anterior to an existing optical structure (e.g., a first IOL, a natural lens) that is restrained by the lens
capsule.
 [0039] The methods disclosed herein can be implemented by a system that projects or scans an
optical beam into a patient's eye 68, such as system 2 shown in Figure 1. System 2 includes an
ultrafast (UF) light source 4 (e.g., a femtosecond laser). Using system 2, a beam can be scanned in
the patient's eye 68 in three dimensions: X, Y, Z. Short-pulsed laser light can be focused into eye
tissue to produce dielectric breakdown to cause photo disruption around the focal point (the focal
                                                       7

  zone), thereby rupturing the tissue in the vicinity of the photo-induced plasma. In this embodiment,
  the wavelength of the laser light can vary between 800nm to 1200nm and the pulse width of the laser
  light can vary from lOfs to 100OOfs. The pulse repetition frequency can also vary from 10 kI-z to
  500 kI-Iz. Safety limits with regard to unintended damage to non-targeted tissue bound the upper
  limit with regard to repetition rate and pulse energy. And threshold energy, time to complete the
  procedure, and stability bound the lower limit for pulse energy and repetition rate. The peak power
  of the focused spot in the eye 68 and specifically within the crystalline lens 69 and anterior capsule
  of the eye is sufficient to produce optical breakdown and initiate a plasma-mediated ablation
 process. Although near-infrared wavelengths are used in many embodiments because linear optical
 absorption and scattering in biological tissue is reduced for near-infrared wavelengths, many
 alternative embodiments comprise one or more of visible, ultraviolet or infrared light energy. As a
 non-limiting example, laser 4 can be a repetitively pulsed 1035 rim device that produces 500 fs
 pulses at a repetition rate of 100 kHz and individual pulse energy in the 1 to 20 micro joule range. In
 general, any suitable laser having any suitable parameters can be used. An example of such a
 suitable system is described U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 11/328,970, in the name of Blumenkranz et
                                                                                                     al.,
 entitled "METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PATTERNED PLASMA-MEDIATED LASR
 TREPHENATION OF THE LENS AND CAPSULE IN THREE DIMENSOINAL PHACO
 SEGMENTATION", Pub. No. 2006/0195076, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
 by reference. Embodiments of an ultraviolet laser suitable for combination in accordance with
 embodiments described herein are described in U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 12/987069, in the name of
 Schuele et al., entitled, "METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MODIFYING EYE TISSUE AND
 INTRAOCULAR LENSES", Pub. No. 2011/0172649, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
 [0040] The laser 4 is controlled by control electronics 300, via an input and output device 302, to
create optical beam 6. Control electronics 300 may comprise a processor such as a computer,
microcontroller, etc. In this example, the controller 300 controls the entire system and data is moved
through input/output device IO 302. A graphical user interface GUI 304 can be used to set system
operating parameters, process user input (UI) 306, and display gathered information such as images
of ocular structures. The GUI 304 and UI 306 may comprise components of a known computer
system, for example one or more of a display, a touch screen display, key board, a pointer or a
mouse, for example. The control electronics may comprise one or more processors of a computer
system, for example.
                                                      8

 [0041] The control electronics 300 can be configured in one or more of many ways, and may
 comprise a processor having a tangible medium having instructions of a computer program
 embodied thereon. In many embodiments, the tangible medium comprises a computer readable
 memory having instructions of a computer readable medium embodied thereon. Alternatively or in
 combination, the control electronic may comprise array logic such as a gate array, a programmable
 gate array, for field programmable gate array to implement one or more instructions as described
 herein. The instructions of the tangible medium can be implemented by the processor of the control
 electronics.
 [0042] The generated UF light beam 6 proceeds towards the patient eye 68 passing through a half
 wave plate 8 and a linear polarizer, 10. The polarization state of the beam can be adjusted so that the
 desired amount of light passes through the half-wave plate 8 and the linear polarizer 10, which
together act as a variable attenuator for the UF beam 6. Additionally, the orientation of the linear
polarizer 10 determines the incident polarization state incident upon a beam combiner 34, thereby
 optimizing the beam combiner 34 throughput.
 [0043J The UF light beam 6 proceeds through a system-controlled shutter 12, an aperture 14, and a
pickoff device 16. The system-controlled shutter 12 ensures on/off control of the laser for
procedural and safety reasons. The aperture 14 sets an outer useful diameter for the UF light beam 6
and the pickoff device 16 monitors the resulting beam. The pickoff device 16 includes a partially
reflecting mirror 20 and a detector 18. Pulse energy, average power, or a combination can be
measured using the detector 18. Output from the detector 18 can be used for feedback to the half
wave plate 8 for attenuation and to verify whether the system-controlled shutter 12 is open or closed.
In addition, the system-controlled shutter 12 can have position sensors to provide a redundant state
detection.
[0044] The beam passes through a beam conditioning stage 22, in which beam parameters such as
beam diameter, divergence, circularity, and astigmatism can be modified. In this illustrative
example, the beam conditioning stage 22 includes a two-element beam expanding telescope
comprised of spherical optics 24, 26 in order to achieve the intended beam size and collimation.
Although not illustrated here, an anamorphic or other optical system can be used to achieve the
desired beam parameters. The factors used to determine these beam parameters include the output
beam parameters of the laser, the overall magnification of the system, and the desired numerical
aperture (NA) at the treatment location. In addition, the beam conditioning stage 22 can be used to
                                                   9

 image aperture 14 to a desired location (e.g., the center location between a 2-axis scanning device 50
 described below). In this way, the amount of light that makes it through the aperture 14 is assured to
 make it through the scanning system. The pickoff device 16 is then a reliable measure of the usable
 light.
 [0045] After exiting the beam conditioning stage 22, the beam 6 reflects off of fold mirrors 28, 30,
 32. These mirrors can be adjustable for alignment purposes. The beam 6 is then incident upon the
 beam combiner 34. The beam combiner 34 reflects the UF beam 6 (and transmits both the imaging,
 in this exemplary case, an optical coherence tomography (OCT) beam 114, and an aim 202 beam
 described below). For efficient beam combiner operation, the angle of incidence is preferably kept
 below 45 degrees and the polarization of the beams is fixed where possible. For the UF beam 6, the
 orientation of the linear polarizer 10 provides fixed polarization. Although OCT is used as the
 imaging modality in this non-limiting example, other approaches, such as Purkinje imaging,
 Scheimpflug imaging, confocal or nonlinear optical microscopy, fluorescence imaging, ultrasound,
 structured light, stereo imaging, or other known ophthalmic or medical imaging modalities and/or
combinations thereof may be employed.
 [0046] Following the beam combiner 34, the beam 6 continues onto a z-adjust or Z scan device 40.
In this illustrative example the z-adjust 40 includes a Galilean telescope with two lens groups 42, 44
(each lens group includes one or more lenses). The lens group 42 moves along the z-axis about the
collimation position of the telescope. In this way, the focus position of the spot in the patient's
eye 68 moves along the z-axis as indicated. In general, there is a fixed linear relationship between
the motion of lens 42 and the motion of the focus. In this case, the z-adjust telescope has an
approximate 2x beam expansion ratio and a 1:1 relationship of the movement of lens 42 to the
movement of the focus. Alternatively, the lens group 44 could be moved along the z-axis to actuate
the z-adjust, and scan. The z-adjust 40 is the z-scan device for treatment in the eye 68. It can be
controlled automatically and dynamically by the system and selected to be independent or to
interplay with the X-Y scan device described next. The mirrors 36, 38 can be used for aligning the
optical axis with the axis of the z-adjust device 40.
[0047] After passing through the z-adjust device 40, the beam 6 is directed to the x-y scan device 50
by mirrors 46, 48. The mirrors 46, 48 can be adjustable for alignment purposes. X-Y scanning is
achieved by the scanning device 50 preferably using two mirrors 52, 54 under the control of the
control electronics 300, which rotate in orthogonal directions using motors, galvanometers, or any
other well known optic moving device. The mirrors 52, 54 are located near the telecentric position
                                                    10

  of an objective lens 58 and a contact lens 66 combination described below. Tilting the mirrors 52,
  54 changes the resulting direction of the bean 6, causing lateral displacements in the plane of UF
  focus located in the patient's eye 68. The objective lens 58 may be a complex multi-element lens
  element, as shown, and represented by lenses 60, 62, and 64. The complexity of the objective
  lens 58 will be dictated by the scan field size, the focused spot size, the available working distance
 on both the proximal and distal sides of objective lens 58, as well as the amount of aberration
 control. An f-theta objective lens 58 of focal length 60mm generating a spot size of 104pm, over a
 field of 10mm, with an input beam size of 15mm diameter is an example. Alternatively, X-Y
  scanning by the scanning device 50 may be achieved by using one or more moveable optical
 elements (e.g., lenses, gratings), which also may be controlled by the control electronics 300, via the
 input and output device 302.
  [0048] The scanning device 50 under the control of the control electronics 300 can automatically
 generate the aiming and treatment scan patterns. Such patterns may be comprised of a single spot of
 light, multiple spots of light, a continuous pattern of light, multiple continuous patterns of light,
 and/or any combination of these. In addition, the aiming pattern (using the aim beam 202 described
 below) need not be identical to the treatment pattern (using the light beam 6), but preferably at least
 defines its boundaries in order to assure that the treatment light is delivered only within the desired
 target area for patient safety. This may be done, for example, by having the aiming pattern provide
 an outline of the intended treatment pattern. This way the spatial extent of the treatment pattern may
 be made known to the user, if not the exact locations of the individual spots themselves, and the
 scanning thus optimized for speed, efficiency and accuracy. The aiming pattern may also be made to
 be perceived as blinking in order to further enhance its visibility to the user.
 [00491 An optional contact lens 66, which can be any suitable ophthalmic lens, can be used to help
further focus the light beam 6 into the patient's eye 68 while helping to stabilize eye position. The
positioning and character of the light beam 6 and/or the scan pattern the light beam 6 forms on the
eye 68 may be further controlled by use of an input device such as ajoystick, or any other
appropriate user input device (e.g., GUI 304) to position the patient and/or the optical system.
 [00501 The UF laser 4 and the control electronics 300 can be set to target the targeted structures in
the eye 68 and ensure that the light beam 6 will be focused where appropriate and not
unintentionally damage non-targeted tissue. Imaging modalities and techniques described herein,
such as those mentioned above, or ultrasound may be used to determine the location and measure the
thickness of the lens and lens capsule to provide greater precision to the laser focusing methods,
                                                      11

 including 2D and 3D patterning. Laser focusing may also be accomplished using one or more
 methods including direct observation of an aiming beam, or other known ophthalmic or medical
 imaging modalities, such as those mentioned above, and/or combinations thereof. In the
 embodiment of Figure 1, an OCT device 100 is described, although other modalities are within the
 scope of the present invention. An OCT scan of the eye will provide information about the axial
 location of the anterior and posterior lens capsule, the boundaries of the cataract nucleus, as well as
 the depth of the anterior chamber. This information is then loaded into the control electronics 300,
 and used to program and control the subsequent laser-assisted surgical procedure. The information
 may also be used to determine a wide variety of parameters related to the procedure such as, for
 example, the upper and lower axial limits of the focal planes used for cutting the lens capsule and
 segmentation of the lens cortex and nucleus, and the thickness of the lens capsule among others.
 [0051] The OCT device 100 in Figure 1 includes a broadband or a swept light source 102 that is split
by a fiber coupler 104 into a reference arm 106 and a sample arm 110. The reference arm 106
includes a module 108 containing a reference reflection along with suitable dispersion and path
 length compensation. The sample arm 110 of the OCT device 100 has an output connector 112 that
 serves as an interface to the rest of the UF laser system. The return signals from both the reference
and sample arms 106, 110 are then directed by coupler 104 to a detection device 128, which employs
a time domain detection technique, a frequency detection technique, or a single point detection
technique. In Figure 1, a frequency domain technique is used with an OCT wavelength of 830nm
and bandwidth of 100nm.
[0052] After exiting the connector 112, the OCT beam 114 is collimated using a lens 116. The size
of the collimated OCT beam 114 is determined by the focal length of the lens 116. The size of the
beam 114 is dictated by the desired NA at the focus in the eye and the magnification of the beam
train leading to the eye 68. Generally, the OCT beam 114 does not require as high an NA as the UF
light beam 6 in the focal plane and therefore the OCT beam 114 is smaller in diameter than the UF
light beam 6 at the beam combiner 34 location. Following the collimating lens 116 is an
aperture 118, which further modifies the resultant NA of the OCT beam 114 at the eye. The
diameter of the aperture 118 is chosen to optimize OCT light incident on the target tissue and the
strength of the return signal. A polarization control element 120, which may be active or dynamic, is
used to compensate for polarization state changes. The polarization state changes may be induced,
for example, by individual differences in corneal birefringence. Mirrors 122, 124 are then used to
direct the OCT beam 114 towards beam combiners 126, 34. Mirrors 122, 124 can be adjustable for
                                                     12

  alignment purposes and in particular for overlaying of the OCT beam 114 to the UF light beam 6
  subsequent to the beam combiner 34. Similarly, the beam combiner 126 is used to combine the OCT
  beam 114 with the aim beam 202 as described below.
  100531 Once combined with the UF light beam 6 subsequent to beam combiner 34, the OCT
  beam 114 follows the same path as the UF light beam 6 through the rest of the system. In this way,
 the OCT beam 114 is indicative of the location of the UF light beam 6. The OCT beam 114 passes
 through the z-scan 40 and x-y scan 50 devices then the objective lens 58, the contact lens 66, and on
  into the eye 68. Reflections and scatter off of structures within the eye provide return beams that
 retrace back through the optical system, into the connector 112, through the coupler 104, and to the
 OCT detector 128. These return back reflections provide OCT signals that are in turn interpreted by
 the system as to the location in X, Y, and Z of UF light beam 6 focal location.
  [0054] The OCT device 100 works on the principle of measuring differences in optical path length
 between its reference and sample arms. Therefore, passing the OCT beam 114 through the z
 adjust device 40 does not extend the z-range of the OCT system 100 because the optical path length
 does not change as a function of movement of the lens group 42. The OCT system 100 has an
 inherent z-range that is related to the detection scheme, and in the case of frequency domain
 detection it is specifically related to the spectrometer and the location of the reference arm 106. In
 the case of OCT system 100 used in Figure 1, the z-range is approximately 1-2mm in an aqueous
 environment. Extending this range to at least 4mm involves the adjustment of the path length of the
 reference arm within OCT system 100. Passing the OCT beam 114 in the sample arm through the z
 scan of z-adjust device 40 allows for optimization of the OCT signal strength. This is accomplished
 by focusing the OCT beam 114 onto the targeted structure while accommodating the extended
optical path length by commensurately increasing the path within the reference arm 106 of OCT
system 100.
 [0055] Because of the fundamental differences in the OCT measurement with respect to the UF
focus device due to influences such as immersion index, refraction, and aberration, both chromatic
and monochromatic, care must be taken in analyzing the OCT signal with respect to the UF beam
focal location. A calibration or registration procedure as a function of X, Y, and Z should be
conducted in order to match the OCT signal information to the UF focus location and also to the
relative to absolute dimensional quantities.
[0056] Observation of an aim beam may also be used to assist the user to directing the UF laser
focus. Additionally, an aim beam visible to the unaided eye in lieu of the infrared OCT beam and
                                                     13

 the UF light beam can be helpful with alignment provided the aim beam accurately represents the
  infrared beam parameters. An aim subsystem 200 is employed in the configuration shown in
 Figure 1. The aim beam 202 is generated by an aim beam light source 201, such as a helium-neon
  laser operating at a wavelength of 633nm, Alternatively a laser diode in the 630-650nm range can
 be used. An advantage of using the helium neon 633nm beam is its long coherence length, which
 would enable the use of the aim path as a laser unequal path-length interferometer (LUPI) to
 measure the optical quality of the beam train, for example.
  [0057] Once the aim beam light source 201 generates the aim beam 202, the aim beam 202 is
 collimated using a lens 204. The size of the collimated beam is determined by the focal length of the
 lens 204. The size of the aim beam 202 is dictated by the desired NA at the focus in the eye and the
 magnification of the beam train leading to the eye 68. Generally, the aim beam 202 should have
 close to the same NA as the UF light beam 6 in the focal plane and therefore the aim beam 202 is of
 similar diameter to the UF light beam 6 at the beam combiner 34. Because the aim beam 202 is
 meant to stand-in for the UF light beam 6 during system aligmnent to the target tissue of the eye,
 much of the aim path mimics the UF path as described previously. The aim beam 202 proceeds
through a half-wave plate 206 and a linear polarizer 208. The polarization state of the aim
beam 202 can be adjusted so that the desired amount of light passes through the polarizer 208. The
half-wave plate 206 and the linear polarizer 208 therefore act as a variable attenuator for the aim
beam 202. Additionally, the orientation of polarizer 208 determines the incident polarization state
incident upon the beam combiners 126, 34, thereby fixing the polarization state and allowing for
optimization of the throughput of the beam combiners 126, 34. Of course, if a semiconductor laser
is used as the aim beam light source 200, the drive current can be varied to adjust the optical power.
 [0058] The aim beam 202 proceeds through a system-controlled shutter 210 and an aperture 212.
The system-controlled shutter 210 provides on/off control of the aim beam 202. The aperture 212
sets an outer useful diameter for the aim beam 202 and can be adjusted appropriately. A calibration
procedure measuring the output of the aim beam 202 at the eye can be used to set the attenuation of
aim beam 202 via control of the polarizer 206.
[00591 The aim beam 202 next passes through a beam-conditioning device 214. Beam parameters
such as beam diameter, divergence, circularity, and astigmatism can be modified using one or more
well known beaming conditioning optical elements, In the case of the aim beam 202 emerging from
an optical fiber, the beam-conditioning device 214 can simply include a beam-expanding telescope
                                                   14

with two optical elements 216, 218 in order to achieve the intended beam size and collimation. The
final factors used to determine the aim beam parameters such as degree of collimation are dictated
by what is necessary to match the UF light beam 6 and the aim beam 202 at the location of the
eye 68. Chromatic differences can be taken into account by appropriate adjustments of the beam
conditioning device 214. In addition, the optical system 214 is used to image aperture 212 to a
desired location such as a conjugate location of the aperture 14.
 [00601 The aim beam 202 next reflects off of fold mirrors 220, 222, which are preferably adjustable
for alignment registration to the UF light beam 6 subsequent to the beam combiner 34. The aim
beam 202 is then incident upon the beam combiner 126 where the aim beam 202 is combined with
the OCT beam 114. The beam combiner 126 reflects the aim beam 202 and transmits the OCT
beam 114, which allows for efficient operation of the beam combining functions at both wavelength
ranges. Alternatively, the transmit function and the reflect function of the beam combiner 126 can
be reversed and the configuration inverted. Subsequent to the beam combiner 126, the aim
beam 202 along with the OCT beam 114 is combined with the UF light beam 6 by the beam
combiner 34.
[0061] A device for imaging the target tissue on or within the eye 68 is shown schematically in
Figure 1 as an imaging system 71. The imaging system 71 includes a camera 74 and an illumination
light source 86 for creating an image of the target tissue. The imaging system 71 gathers images that
may be used by the control electronics 300 for providing pattern centering about or within a
predefined structure. The illumination light source 86 is generally broadband and incoherent. For
example, the light source 86 can include multiple LEDs as shown. The wavelength of the
illumination light source 86 is preferably in the range of 700nm to 750nm, but can be anything that
is accommodated by a beam combiner 56, which combines the viewing light with the beam path for
the UF light beam 6 and the aim beam 202 (beam combiner 56 reflects the viewing wavelengths
while transmitting the OCT and UF wavelengths). The beam combiner 56 may partially transmit the
aim wavelength so that the aim beam 202 can be visible to the viewing camera 74. An optional
polarization element 84 in front of the light source 86 can be a linear polarizer, a quarter wave plate,
a half-wave plate or any combination, and is used to optimize signal. A false color image as
generated by the near infrared wavelength is acceptable.
[0062] The illumination light from the light source 86 is directed down towards the eye using the
same objective lens 58 and the contact lens 66 as the UF light beam 6 and the aim beam 202. The
light reflected and scattered off of various structures in the eye 68 are collected by the same
                                                    15

 lenses 58, 66 and directed back towards the beam combiner 56. At the beam combiner 56, the return
 light is directed back into the viewing path via beam combiner 56 and a mirror 82, and on to the
 viewing camera 74. The viewing camera 74 can be, for example but not limited to, any silicon based
 detector array of the appropriately sized format. A video lens 76 forms an image onto the camera's
 detector array while optical elements 80, 78 provide polarization control and wavelength filtering
 respectively. An aperture or iris 81 provides control of imaging NA and therefore depth of focus and
 depth of field. A small aperture provides the advantage of large depth of field that aids in the patient
 docking procedure. Alternatively, the illumination and camera paths can be switched. Furthermore,
 the aim light source 200 can be made to emit infrared light that would not be directly visible, but
 could be captured and displayed using the imaging system 71.
 [0063] Coarse adjust registration is usually needed so that when the contact lens 66 comes into
 contact with the cornea of the eye 68, the targeted structures are in the capture range of the X, Y scan
of the system. Therefore a docking procedure is preferred, which preferably takes in account patient
motion as the system approaches the contact condition (i.e. contact between the patient's eye 68 and
the contact lens 66). The viewing system 71 is configured so that the depth of focus is large enough
such that the patient's eye 68 and other salient features may be seen before the contact lens 66 makes
contact with the eye 68.
 [00641 Preferably, a motion control system 70 is integrated into the overall system 2, and may move
the patient, the system 2 or elements thereof, or both, to achieve accurate and reliable contact
between the contact lens 66 and the eye 68. Furthennore, a vacuum suction subsystem and flange
may be incorporated into the system 2, and used to stabilize the eye 68. Alignment of the eye 68 to
the system 2 via the contact lens 66 can be accomplished while monitoring the output of the imaging
system 71, and perfonned manually or automatically by analyzing the images produced by the
imaging system 71 electronically by means of the control electronics 300 via the 1O 302, Force
and/or pressure sensor feedback can also be used to discern contact, as well as to initiate the vacuum
subsystem. An alternate patient interface can also be used, such as that described in U.S. Pat
Application No. 13/225,373, which is incorporated herein by reference.
10065] An alternative beam combining configuration is shown in the alternate embodiment of
Figure 2. For example, the passive beam combiner 34 in Figure 1 can be replaced with an active
combiner 140 as shown in Figure 2. The active beam combiner 140 can be a moving or dynamically
controlled element such as a galvanometric scanning mirror, as shown. The active combiner 140
changes its angular orientation in order to direct either the UF light beam 6 or the combined aim and
                                                    16

  OCT beams 202,114 towards the scanner 50 and eventually towards the eye 68 one at a time. The
  advantage of the active combining technique is that it avoids the difficulty of combining beams with
  similar wavelength ranges or polarization states using a passive beam combiner. This ability is
 traded off against the ability to have simultaneous beams in time and potentially less accuracy and
 precision due to positional tolerances of active beam combiner 140.
  [0066] Another alternate embodiment is shown in Figure 3 and is similar to that of Figure 1 but
 utilizes an alternate approach to the OCT 100. In Figure 3, an OCT 101 is the same as the OCT 100
  in Figure 1, except that the reference arm 106 has been replaced by a reference arm 132. This free
 space OCT reference arm 132 is realized by including a beam splitter 130 after the lens 116. The
 reference beam 132 then proceeds through a polarization controlling element 134 and then onto a
 reference return module 136. The reference return module 136 contains the appropriate dispersion
 and path length adjusting and compensating elements and generates an appropriate reference signal
 for interference with the sample signal. The sample arm of OCT 101 now originates subsequent to
 the beam splitter 130. Potential advantages of this free space configuration include separate
 polarization control and maintenance of the reference and sample arms. The fiber based beam
 splitter 104 of the OCT 101 can also be replaced by a fiber based circulator. Alternately, both the
 OCT detector 128 and the beam splitter 130 might be moved together as opposed to the reference
 return module 136.
 [0067] Figure 4 shows another alternative embodiment for combining the OCT beam 114 and the
 LT light beam 6. In Figure 4, an OCT 156 (which can include either of the configurations of OCT
 100 or 101) is configured such that an OCT beam 154 output by the OCT 156 is coupled to the UF
 light beam 6 after the z-scan device 40 using a beam combiner 152. In this way, the OCT beam 154
avoids using the z-scan device 40. This allows the OCT 156 to possibly be folded into the beam
more easily and shortening the path length for more stable operation. This OCT configuration is at
the expense of an optimized signal return strength as discussed with respect to Figure 1. There are
many possibilities for the configuration of the OCT interferometer, including time and frequency
domain approaches, single and dual beam methods, swept source, etc, as described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,748,898; 5,748,352; 5,459,570; 6,111,645; and 6,053,613 (which are incorporated herein by
reference.)
 [0068] The system 2 can be set to locate the surface of the capsule and ensure that the light beam 6
will be focused on the lens capsule at all points of the desired opening. Imaging modalities and
techniques described herein, such as for example, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), such as
                                                    17

 Purkinje imaging, Scheimpflug imaging, confocal or nonlinear optical microscopy, fluorescence
 imaging, ultrasound, structured light, stereo imaging, or other known ophthalmic or medical imaging
 modalities and/or combinations thereof may be used to determine the shape, geometry, perimeter,
 boundaries, and/or 3-dimensional location of the lens and lens capsule to provide greater precision to
 the laser focusing methods, including 2D and 3D patterning. Laser focusing may also be
 accomplished using one or more methods including direct observation of an aiming beam, or other
known ophthalmic or medical imaging modalities and combinations thereof, such as but not limited
to those defined above.
 [0069] Optical imaging of the anterior chamber and lens can be performed on the lens using the
 same laser and/or the same scanner used to produce the patterns for cutting. This scan will provide
 information about the axial location and shape (and even thickness) of the anterior and posterior lens
 capsule, the boundaries of the cataract nucleus, as well as the depth of the anterior chamber; This
information may then be loaded into the laser 3-D scanning system or used to generate a three
dimensional model/representation/image of the anterior chamber and lens of the eye, and used to
define the patterns used in the surgical procedure.
 [0070] The above-described systems may be used to incise the capsule of the lens of an eye to
produce an anchoring capsulotomy. An example is the array of four anchoring capsulotomies in the
lens capsule have been placed at regular spacing circumferentially about a larger capsulotomy that
may be used to mate with complementary anchoring features on an IOL that is shown in Figure 5A.
In this example, capsule 402 is incised using the system described above to create anchoring
capsulotomies 432A-432D. These microfeintotomies are disposed about the perimeter of a central
capsulotomy 400. The central capsulotomy 400 is not required to practice the present invention, but
is given as a non-limiting example for the cases where an IOL 440 is to be implanted above an
existing IOL (not shown) for which central capsulotomy 400 pre-exists or into the capsule itself
where central capsulotomy 400 is used in the traditional manner to provide instrumentation access
for removing the crystalline lens during cataract surgery.
[0071] In many embodiments the eye comprises aberrations that extend along an aberration axis
405. The aberration axis may comprise one or more of many axes suitable to describe an aberration
of the eye such as astigmatism and higher order aberrations, for example. In many embodiments,
aberration axis 405 will extend along a horizontal axis of the eye or along a vertical axis of the eye.
With astigmatism, a first axis may extend in a first direction and a second axis may extend in a
                                                    18

 second direction perpendicular to the first direction. In many embodiments, aberration axis 405 will
 extend away from a horizontal axis of the eye and away from a vertical axis of the eye.
  [0072] Figure 5B shows an IOL 440 that is configured to be constrained via the anchoring
 capsulotomies 432A-432D. In this non-limiting example, the IOL 440 is configured with
 anchors 442 that are configured to engage the anchoring capsulotomies 432A-432D, as well as
 struts 450. The struts 450 are intended to maintain a prescribed distance between the IOL 440 and
 the capsule 402. This is discussed in more detail in the following section on posterior capsule
 opacification, also known as "secondary cataract." The anchoring capsulotomy incisions may be too
 small to be created reliably by hand. Likewise, the required placement of the anchoring
 capsulotomy incisions can be very precise. There is a myriad of possibilities for employing such
 mating anchoring capsulotomies and IOL anchoring features that provide for the improved
 placement of an IOL relative to the lens capsule of the eye of a patient. European Pat. Apple. No.
 EPP16613A-100927 discloses similar IOLs, which are included herein by reference.
 [0073] In many embodiments, IOL 440 comprises a shape to correct aberrations of the eye and an
 aberration correcting axis 445. The aberration correcting axis 445 can be aligned in relation to
 anchors 442, for example with a pre-determined alignment with respect to anchors 442. The anchors
442 can be located so as to align the aberration correcting axis 445 with the aberration axis 405 in
 order to treat an aberration of the eye such as one or more of astigmatism or higher order aberrations
of the eye.
 [0074] Figures 6A and 6B show more anatomical details of the above-mentioned embodiment in
which a microfemtotomy 432 is used to secure the IOL 440 of Figure 5B within the lens capsule 402
by means of the anchors 442,
 [0075] The anchoring capsulotomy need not be round, as shown in the previous examples, and again
in Figure 7A, As non-limiting examples, Figures 7A through 7C show a few useful anchoring
capsulotomy shapes that can be used. In general, any suitably shaped anchoring capsulotomy can be
used. Figures 7B and 7C show two exemplary alternate configurations of elliptical and rectangular
anchoring capsulotomy shape perimeters. An elliptical and/or a rectangular anchoring capsulotomy
shaped perimeter can be used in the buttonhole concept mentioned above. The perimeters shown in
Figures 7B and 7C contain both long and short margins.
[0076] The tip of each anchor may be inserted into a corresponding capsulotomy and pushed
through to capture the anchor and hold the anchor in place once engaged. As such, the tip of the
anchor should be overall larger than the buttonhole incision of the anchoring capsulotomy. This can
                                                     19

 be thought of as analogous to a buttonhole holding a button. Alternately, a buttonhole capsulotomy
  can be constructed using a single linear incision. Such a linear incision can be made such that is
 tangential, or close to tangential, to a circle describing the matching posts of the TOL to be
 implanted. Thus, the IOL can be implanted buy inserting each post individually, as opposed to
 requiring the posts to all be in more or less in place as would be the case when the incisions are more
 or less perpendicular to a circle describing the location of the posts of the IOL to be implanted.
  [0077] The incisions can also be made such that they are nominally linear and include rounded
 edges, forming a "bone-shaped" incision. Similarly, a teardrop-shaped or rounded-point-teardrop
 shaped incision can also be formed.
 [0078] In a further alternate embodiment, a small capsulotomy can be made such that it is
 substantially square, as opposed to rectangular. Although not shown in the accompanying figures,
 the corners of small capsulotomies containing substantially linear edges can be made rounded to
 minimize the risk of capsular incision extension due to strain concentration at sharp corners. The
 creation of such small capsulotomies, especially with smoothly rounded edges, is practically
 impossible to perform manually.
 [00791 Figures 8A and 8B show an alternate embodiment wherein the IOL 440 to be implanted is
placed above an existing ocular lens 444. This is alternatively referred to herein as "piggybacking"
 and is particularly useful in cases where the removal of the existing ocular lens 444 (either the
natural crystalline lens or an artificial implant) is not accomplished. The implantation of such an
 additional lens 440 may be desirable in certain cases such as in cases of juvenile cataracts or other
 situations where the patient's refraction changes appreciably over time. In such cases, even though
the eye must be invaded, the risks associated with removing an existing implant 444 are avoided by
implanting the IOL 440 over the existing lens 444 in the anterior chamber. Such an IOL can be
configured to improve the balance of the patient's optical system. This can be achieved in cases of
hyperopia and myopia by the introduction of optical elements such as positive and negative spherical
lenses, respectively. Toric elements such as cylindrical lenses, optical wedges and gradient index
materials may also be used to correct astigmatism and even to address higher order aberrations such
as coma.
[0080] Furthermore, the placement accuracy afforded makes it possible to implant optical elements
in the eye of a patient to correct for numerous aberrations. For example, the patient's refraction can
be determined by wavefront measurement or other suitable means and the optical correction required
to achieve emmetropia determined so that a customized optical implant can be designed. For
                                                      20

 convenience, we refer to the optical implant as an IOL, though it need not be a conventional lens.
 This implant (IOL) can then be fabricated such that its implantation orientation is unambiguous. This
 can be achieved by the use of a rotationally asymmetric configuration of anchors and mating
 anchoring capsulomotomies such that IOL orientation is "keyed" or "clocked", such as those shown
 in Figures 9A-D. This way an IOL 440 can be placed in the capsule of the eye such that it
 rotationally locates the IOL with respect to the astigmatic axis of the eye. Such clocking may be
 accomplished by providing a pattern of microfemtotomies 432A, 432B, 432C, 434D such they form
 a rotationally asymmetric pattern, such as is shown in Figures 9C and 9D. This rotationally
 asymmetric pattern can be beneficial to ensure that an axis of the IOL is aligned to the correct axis of
the eye and not 90 degrees or 120 degrees out of alignment, for example. Alternately, the incision
pattern may be made to form a rotationally symmetric pattern, such as is shown in Figures 9A and
 9B. Similar schemes can be employed, such as bilaterally symmetric and bilaterally asymmetric
patterns. The patterns can be centered on the eye.
 [0081] In many embodiments, the aberration axis 405 of the eye is aligned with the aberration
correcting axis 445 of the IOL. The patten of microfemtotomies 432A, 432B, 432C, 434D can be
located on the capsule so as to align the aberration correcting axis 445 of the lens with the aberration
axis 405 of the eye.
 [0082] Rotational orientation of the IOL, or providing for rotational indexing about the geometric or
optical axes of the eye, can also be provided by making one of a plurality of the microfemtotomies
different than the other microfemtotomies in the pattern. This affords the ability to distinguish the
asymmetric axis of the eye and/or the IOL to be implanted. With this distinction, a surgeon can
locate matching features to assure the correct alignment of the IOL in the patient's eye. The IOL
used to mate with these incisions can be made with posts that are not identical to improve its clinical
utility.
[0083] Similarly, the transverse location (i.e. the lateral location of the microfemtotomies on the
capsule can be used to improve the visual outcome of the procedure. The presence of an asymmetric
pupil or a pseudo fovea may indicate a lateral alignment that is not as would be expected otherwise.
That is, such ophthalmic asymmetries would lead to IOL positions that would not be predicted by
simply looking at the anatomy. The present system and method are particularly suited to address
these anomalies because of the accuracy and flexibility afforded by the integration of anatomical
imaging and laser capsulotomy creation, especially when the integrated imaging systems are used to
provide for incision placement relative to anatomical landmarks or other such fiducials.
                                                    21

  [00841 This concept may be extended to accommodate the natural asymmetry of capsular
  contraction by orienting an asymmetric pattern of incisions intended to engage with the posts of an
  IOL by locating the majority of the posts towards the direction of the lowest radial force,
  [00851 Lens epithelial cells (LECs) that remain in the capsule after lens removal can be problematic.
  The differentiation of LECs into fibroblast-like cells can cause wrinkles, folds, and opacities
  ("secondary cataract") of the capsule and can result in posterior capsule opacification (PCO) and
 IOL decentralization. It has been reported that Posterior capsule opacification causes a decrease in
 visual acuity in the first 5 years after cataract surgery in more than 25% of patients. Over 2-4 weeks
 after surgery, the formation of fibrous tissue in the capsule often occurs, pushing the lens back onto
 the posterior capsule. With conventional square-edged IOLs, a mechanical barrier to migrating
 LECs on the posterior edge of the lens is create4j here the square edge barrier is located, such that
 the central visual field is kept free of PCO. PCO may be avoided in two distinctly different ways
 using the IOL devices described herein, and in a third way using an implanted drug-eluting device
 (such as a plug or pellet) to combat PCO via the release of therapeutic agents such as the non
 limiting examples of diclofenac sodium, ketorolac tromethamine, and cytotoxic LEC-specific genes.
 [0086] Tightly sealing the capsule to prevent the proliferation of lens epithelial cells that cause both
 opacification and mechanical nonconformities in the capsule that serve to dislocate the IOL over
time and alter the patient's refractive correction may be accomplished by fabricating the mating IOL
 such that the lens forms a seal on the capsule about each anchoring capsulotomy and also about the
larger central capsulotomy. A second approach is to maintain an open capsule that is in fluid
 communication with the anterior chamber to minimize the risks instigating epithelial cell
proliferation and/or differentiation by diluting the offending cytokines and other agents.
 [00871 Most traditional IOLs do not consistently provide a complete circumferential seal due to the
mechanical discontinuity of the lens-haptic junction. This fundamental limitation provides a
pathway for LEC migration and subsequent PCO. Providing a sealed system using the anchoring
capsulotomy mating IOL is more readily achieved in the absence of these traditional haptics.
Furthermore, a set of matching anchoring capsulotomies can be made in the posterior capsule, as
well. These will serve to collapse the capsule and improve the seal. It also has the advantage of
enabling the eye's accommodative processes to impart more force on the IOL to move it for
improved focus.
[00881 Alternately, the present inventive IOL design can provide gaps between the lens and the
capsule, at least in places in order to maintain fluid communication between the capsule and the
                                                      22

 anterior chamber. This will allow for fluid to flow through the anterior chamber and the capsule
 interior. The non-limiting example IOL shown in Figure 5B contains standoff features 450 for this
 purpose. Other configurations are also possible, such as providing hollow channels within the
 anchoring features 442, for example.
 100891 Alternately, the lens can be implanted within the anterior capsule, the posterior capsule, or
 both the anterior and posterior capsules. The latter is an alternative to what is known in the art as a
 "Bag-in-Lens" configuration that may better provide for the eye's accommodative processes.
Lenses implanted by the methods described herein may be made intracapsularly on the anterior
and/or posterior capsules, or on the anterior and/or posterior extremes of the capsule itself.
 [0090] TOLs can be made to have axially symmetric posts for engaging with the anterior and
posterior capsules. IOLs can also be made such that the posts are not axially symmetric. That is, the
posts need not be laterally collocated, even as mirror-images. As such, one can see the bases of all
the posts when looking at an IOL from one face,
 [0091] As mentioned above, alternate embodiments include the use of a microfemtotomy to support
a drug-eluting device instead of, or in addition to, an JOL. There are many ongoing ophthalmic
needs that are not properly addressed by the present methods of time-release drug placement. Non
limiting examples of this are glaucoma medications; anti-VEGF treatments; and the release of
therapeutic agents such as diclofenac sodium, ketorolac tromethamine, and cytotoxic LEC-specific
genes to combat PCO; as well as other compounds to improve the chemical diffusion or pumping of
the cornea.
[0092] Figure 10 shows an embodiment of a drug-eluting device implanted in an anchoring
capsulotomy 432a. In this example, drug-eluting device is a plug 500, which is implanted in the
anchoring capsulotomy 432a adjacent to a central capsulotomy 400 on the capsule 402. In this
example, the plug 500 contains mechanical features designed to retain it in the anchoring
capsulotomy 432a.
[00931 The drug-eluting plug 500 shown in Figure II has a cap 502 on a body 506, which ends at an
end 504. Pores 510 are included on the body 506 to allow for dispersion of the drug that is
otherwise contained within drug-eluting plug 500. Example dimensions of the mechanical features
of device 500 are as follows:
             Feature                    Nominal Dimension            Range of Dimensions        Units
Cap 502, outer diameter                            2                        0.5-4.0              mm
                                                    23

  Cap 502, thickness                               0.5                     0.1-1.0                mm
 Body 506, outer diameter                                                  1.0 -3.0              mm
 Body 506, length                                   2                      1.0-3.0               mm
 End 504, radius of curvature                      0.5                    0.125  - 4.0            mm
  [0094] Figure 12 shows a further alternate embodiment of a drug-eluting device for use with an
 anchoring capsulotomy. Although otherwise similar to the embodiment of Figure 11, the
 embodiment shown in Figure 12 includes the addition of a waist 512 along the body 506 to provide
 for improved retention of the device 500 within the anchoring capsulotomy 432. Alternately, a
 buttonhole capsulotomy can be used to provide enhanced retention and support of the device 500.
 [00951 Similar to the device shown in Figures 5A through 6B, the alternate embodiment shown in
 Figure 13A includes the addition of an end cap 514 to provide improved retention within the
 anchoring capsulotomy 432. Figure 13B shows the same device deployed in an area of capsule that
 is not adjacent to the central capsulotomy.
 10096] Figure 14 illustrates a method 600 for performing laser-assisted surgery on an eye, in
 accordance with many embodiments. Any suitable system can be used to practice the method 600,
 including any suitable system disclosed herein.
 10097] In step 602, an anchoring capsulotomy is formed in the lens capsule of the eye by using a
laser to incise the lens capsule. The anchoring capsulotomy is configured to accommodate an
anchoring feature of an intraocular lens (IOL) using any suitable approach, for example, as disclosed
herein. In many embodiments, the anchoring feature protrudes transverse to a surface of the IOL
that inteifaces with the lens capsule adjacent to the lens capsulotomy, such as illustrated in Figure
6B. The anchoring capsulotomy can have any suitable shape including, for example, button hole,
linear, bone-shaped, teardrop-shaped, round, rectangular with round corners, rectangular with sharp
corners, and elliptical. Any suitable number of anchoring capsulotomies can be formed in the lens
capsule. The one or more anchoring capsulotomies can be placed in any suitable location such as,
for example, in the anterior capsule, in the posterior capsule, and in both the anterior and the
posterior capsules. Each of a plurality of anchoring capsulotomies can be configured to
accommodate a corresponding anchoring feature of an IOL. When multiple anchoring
capsulotomies are used, the same or different shapes can be used. In many embodiments, the
anchoring capsulotomies and the IOL are configured to orient the IOL relative to the eye to provide
                                                    24

   correction of astigmatism of the eye. The anchoring capsulotomies can be arranged such that the
  form a suitable pattern including, for example, a rotationally symmetric pattern, a rotationally
  asymmetric pattern, a bilaterally symmetric pattern, and a bilaterally asymmetric pattern. The
  asymmetry of the pattern can be oriented such that it corresponds to a direction of natural asymmetry
  of capsular contraction. In many embodiments, at least one of the anchoring capsulotomies is
  elongated tangential to a circle passing through the anchoring features of the IOL when the IOL is
  implanted. And at least one of the anchoring features can protrude transverse to a surface of the IOL
  that interfaces with the lens capsule adjacent to the corresponding anchoring capsulotomy.
  [0098] In step 604, an anchoring feature of the IOL is coupled with the anchoring capsulotomy. The
  IOL can be placed in any suitable location. For example, the IOL can be placed within the anterior
  chamber, on or within the lens capsule, on the anterior side of the posterior capsule, and on the
 posterior side of the anterior capsule. The IOL can be a "piggyback" IOL. A second IOL can be
  coupled to the lens capsule so that both the IOL and the second IOL are coupled to the lens capsule.
  The second TOL can be positioned anteriorly relative to the IOL. The orientation of the second IOL
 relative to the lens capsule can be restrained using two or more anchoring capsulotomies created
 through the lens capsule with the laser.
  [00991 Although the above steps show method 600 of treating an eye in accordance with
 embodiments, a person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the
 teaching described herein. The steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or
 deleted. Some of the steps may comprise sub-steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as
 if beneficial to the treatment.
 [00100] One or more of the steps of the method 600 may be performed with the circuitry as
 described herein, for example one or more of the processor or logic circuitry such as the
programmable array logic for field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to
provide one or more of the steps of method 600, and the program may comprise program
 instructions stored on a computer readable memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such
as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array, for example.
 [00101] Figure 15 illustrates a method 610 for performing laser-assisted surgery on an eye, in
accordance with many embodiments. Any suitable system can be used to practice the method 610,
including any suitable system disclosed herein.
 [00102] In step 612, an anchoring capsulotomy is formed in the lens capsule of the eye by using a
laser to incise the lens capsule. The anchoring capsulotomy is configured to accommodate a drug
                                                     25

  eluting member using any suitable approach, for example, as disclosed herein. And more than one
  anchoring capsulotomy configured to accommodate a drug-eluting member can be formed and/or
  located in any suitable location including, for example, in the anterior capsule, in the posterior
  capsule, or in both the anterior and posterior capsules.
  [00103] In step 614, the drug-eluting member is removably coupled to the anchoring capsulotomy.
  A mechanical feature of the drug-eluting member can be removably fitted through the anchoring
  capsulotomy to retain the drug-eluting member's position relative to the lens capsule. One or more
  additional drug-eluting members can be removably coupled with corresponding additional anchoring
  capsulotomies.
  [00104] Although the above steps show method 610 in accordance with embodiments, a person of
 ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The
 steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may
 comprise sub-steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as if beneficial to the treatment.
 [00105] One or more of the steps of the method 610 may be performed with the circuitry as
 described herein, for example one or more of the processor or logic circuitry such as the
 programmable array logic for field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to
provide one or more of the steps of method 610, and the program may comprise program
 instructions stored on a computer readable memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such
 as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array, for example.
 [00106]    Figure 16 illustrates a method 650 of ophthalmic intervention, in accordance with many
 embodiments. Any suitable system can be used to practice the method 650, including any suitable
 system disclosed herein.
 [00107] In step 652, a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies is created in a lens capsule of an eye. The
pattern of anchoring capsulotomies is configured to be mechanically coupled to anchoring features
of an intraocular lens (IOL). Each anchoring capsulotomy of the pattern is configured to
accommodate a corresponding anchoring feature of the intraocular lens (IOL) using any suitable
approach, for example, as disclosed herein. In many embodiments, at least one of the anchoring
features of the pattern protrudes transverse to a surface of the IOL that interfaces with the lens
capsule adjacent to the corresponding anchoring capsulotomy, such as illustrated in Figure 6B. The
anchoring capsulotomies of the pattern can have any suitable shape. For example, at least one of the
anchoring capsulotomies of the pattern can have a buttonhole shape, a teardrop shape, a round
                                                                                                    shape,
                                                    26

 a rectangular shape with sharp corners, a rectangular shape with round corners, a linear shape, a
 bone shape, and an elliptical shape. In many embodiments, creating the pattern of anchoring
 capsulotomies includes incising the lens capsule with a laser.
 [00108] In step 654, a primary capsulotomy is created in the lens capsule. The primary capsulotomy
 can be an anterior capsulotomy, a posterior capsulotomy, and/or both an anterior capsulotomy and a
 posterior capsulotomy. The primary capsulotomy can be created to have any suitable boundary
 shape. For example, the boundary shape of the primary capsulotomy can be circular, elliptical,
 polygonal, arcuate, and linear. In many embodiments, creating the primary capsulotomy includes
 incising the lens capsule with a laser.
 [001091 The anchoring capsulotomies can be placed in any suitable locations around the primary
 capsulotomy. For example, the creation of the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies can include
placing two or more of the anchoring capsulotomies at locations substantially equivalently spaced
 apart about the boundary of the primary capsulotomy. The creation of the pattern of anchoring
 capsulotomies can include placing two or more anchoring capsulotomies at locations non
homogeneously spaced apart about the boundary of the primary capsulotomy. The pattern of
anchoring capsulotoniles can be created to be rotationally symmetric, rotationally asymmetric,
bilaterally symmetric, or bilaterally asymmetric.
 [00110] In step 656, a roll orientation to be established between the lens capsule and the IOL is
determined. For example, the determination of the roll orientation can include determining an
astigmatic axis of the eye and detennining the roll orientation based at least in part upon the
astigmatic axis of the eye. The anchoring capsulotomies of the pattern can be placed in locations
configured to accomplish the determined roll orientation upon assembly of the TOL with the lens
capsule. The roll orientation can be determined to correspond to a direction of natural asymmetry of
contraction of the lens capsule.
 [00111] In step 658, a confirmation that the IOL is at the determined roll orientation relative to the
lens capsule is accomplished before coupling the IOL to the lens capsule. The roll orientation
confirmation can be accomplished in any suitable manner. For example, the roll orientation
confirmation can include observing a roll orientation of a keyed feature of the IOL. The roll
orientation can include observing a roll orientation of a keyed feature of the lens capsule. The keyed
feature of the IOL can be the relative positioning of the anchoring features. For example, in many
embodiments, the pattern can be bisected along a bisecting angle to result in two symmetric pattern
halves and the bisecting angle can be used as the keying feature. The keyed feature on the IOL can
                                                    27

  also be one or more keying markers created in the IOL. The keyed feature of the lens capsule can
  include one or more anatomic landmarks of the lens capsule. The keyed feature of the lens capsule
 can include one or more markers created in the lens capsule.
  [00112] In step 660, the IOL is coupled to the lens capsule by mechanically engaging the anchoring
 features of the IOL with the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies in the lens capsule. When the IOL
 is coupled to the lens capsule it can be located, for example, in an anterior chamber of the eye, in a
 capsular bag of the eye, on the anterior side of a posterior capsule of the eye, or on the posterior side
 of the anterior capsule of the eye.
 [00113] Although the above steps show method 650 in accordance with embodiments, a person of
 ordinary skill in the art will recognize many variations based on the teaching described herein. The
 steps may be completed in a different order. Steps may be added or deleted. Some of the steps may
 comprise sub-steps. Many of the steps may be repeated as often as if beneficial to the treatment.
 [00114] One or more of the steps of the method 650 may be performed with the circuitry as
 described herein, for example one or more of the processor or logic circuitry such as the
programmable array logic for field programmable gate array. The circuitry may be programmed to
provide one or more of the steps of method 650, and the program may comprise program
 instructions stored on a computer readable memory or programmed steps of the logic circuitry such
 as the programmable array logic or the field programmable gate array, for example.
 [001151 Methods 600, 610 and 650 can be combined in one or more of many ways, for example one
or more steps of each method can be combined, and the combined steps may be completed in a
different order, added or deleted, and some of the combined steps may comprise sub-steps, and may
be implemented with the circuitry as described herein.
[001161 While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described
herein, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of
example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in
the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the
embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is
intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures
within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.
                                                     28

1002094185
           1.       A method of ophthalmic intervention, the method comprising:
           creating a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies in a lens capsule of an eye, the pattern of
anchoring capsulotomies being configured to be mechanically coupled to anchoring features of an
intraocular lens (IOL); and
           coupling the IOL to the lens capsule by mechanically engaging the anchoring features with
the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies.
           2.       The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anchoring features protrudes
transverse to a surface of the IOL that interfaces with the lens capsule adjacent to the corresponding
anchoring capsulotomy.
           3.       The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anchoring capsulotomies has a
shape selected from the group consisting of: a buttonhole shape, a teardrop shape, a round shape, a
rectangular shape with sharp comers, a rectangular shape with rounded comers, a linear shape, a bone
shape, and an elliptical shape.
           4.       The method of claim 1, further comprising creating a primary capsulotomy.
           5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the primary capsulotomy defines a boundary shape
selected from the group consisting of: a circular shape, an elliptical shape, a polygonal shape, an
arcuate shape, and a linear shape.
                                                    29

1002094185
           6.       The method of claim 5, wherein creating a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies
comprises placing two or more anchoring capsulotomies at locations substantially equivalently spaced
apart about the boundary shape of the primary capsulotomy.
           7.       The method of claim 5, wherein creating a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies
comprises placing two or more anchoring capsulotomies at locations non-homogeneously spaced apart
about the boundary shape of the primary capsulotomy.
           8.      The method of claim 1, wherein creating a pattern of anchoring capsulotomies
comprises incising the lens capsule with a laser.
           9.      The method of claim 4, wherein creating a primary capsulotomy comprises incising
the lens capsule with a laser.
           10.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
           determining a roll orientation to be established between the lens capsule and the IOL; and
placing the anchoring capsulotomies in locations configured to accomplish the determined roll
orientation upon assembly of the IOL with the lens capsule.
           11.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
           determining an astigmatic axis of the eye; and
           determining the roll orientation based at least in part upon the astigmatic axis of the eye.
                                                      30

1002094185
            12.      The method of claim 1, further comprising confirming that the IOL is at the
determined roll orientation relative to the lens capsule before coupling the IOL to the lens capsule.
            13.      The method of claim 12, wherein the confirming that the IOL is at the determined
roll orientation comprises observing a roll orientation of a keyed feature of the IOL.
            14.      The method of claim 13, wherein the confirming that the IOL is at the determined
roll orientation comprises observing a roll orientation of a keyed feature of the lens capsule.
            15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the keyed feature of the IOL is the relative
positioning of the anchoring features.
            16.     The method of claim 15, wherein:
           the pattern can be bisected along a bisecting axis to result in two symmetric pattern halves;
and
           the bisecting axis is utilized as the keying feature.
           17.      The method of claim 13, wherein the keyed feature of the IOL is one or more keying
markers created in the IOL.
           18.      The method of claim 14, wherein the keyed feature of the lens capsule comprises one
or more anatomic landmarks of the lens capsule.
                                                       31

 1002094185
             19.    The method of claim 14, wherein the keyed feature of the lens capsule comprises one
 or more markers created in the lens capsule.
            20.     The method of claim 11, wherein the pattern of anchoring capsulotomies is created to
have a symmetry selected from the group consisting of: rotationally symmetric, rotationally
 asymmetric, bilaterally symmetric, and bilaterally asymmetric.
            21.     The method of claim 11, wherein the determined roll orientation correspond to a
direction of natural asymmetry of contraction of the lens capsule.
            22.     The method of claim 1, wherein the IOL, upon coupling to the lens capsule, is
located in an anterior chamber of the eye, in a capsular bag of the eye, on the anterior side of a
posterior capsule of the eye, or on the posterior side of an anterior capsule of the eye.
            23.     A method for performing a laser-assisted treatment of an eye having a lens capsule,
the method comprising:
            forming an anchoring capsulotomy in the lens capsule by using a laser to incise the lens
capsule, the anchoring capsulotomy being configured to accommodate a drug eluting member; and
            removably coupling the drug eluting member to the anchoring capsulotomy, wherein a
mechanical feature of the drug eluting member is removably fitted through the anchoring capsulotomy
to retain the drug eluting member's position relative to the lens capsule.
                                                     32

 1002094185
            24.       A system for performing a laser-assisted treatment of an eye having a lens capsule,
the system comprising:
            a laser source configured to produce a treatment beam comprising a plurality of laser pulses;
            an integrated optical system comprising an imaging assembly operatively coupled to a
treatment laser delivery assembly such that they share at least one common optical element, the
integrated optical system being configured to acquire image information pertinent to one or more
targeted tissue structures and direct the treatment beam in a three-dimensional pattern to cause
breakdown in at least one of the targeted tissue structures; and
            a controller operatively coupled with the laser source and the integrated optical system, the
controller being configured to control the system to cut an anchoring capsulotomy in the lens capsule,
the anchoring capsulotomy being configured to accommodate a drug eluting member, wherein a
mechanical feature of the drug eluting member is configured to be removably fitted through the
anchoring capsulotomy to retain the drug eluting member's position relative to the lens capsule.
                                                      33

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
