                                                      16
  Abstract
  The present invention relates to a drive (1) for a boat, in particular a sailing boat, comprising an
  electric motor (4) configured for the operation in the first quadrant and in the fourth quadrant, a
  propeller (2) connected to the electric motor (4) and a control device, wherein the control device is
5 configured to operate the electric motor (4) in the fourth quadrant in such a way that, by this motor,
  flow energy transmitted via the propeller (2) to the electric motor is regenerated into electrical
  power, and that a product of a propeller pitch of the propeller (2) and a rotational speed of the
  propeller (2) is smaller than a relative flow speed between the water and the drive.

 1/2
        1
    (31
241          2")
2        2' Fig. 1

                                                         1
                        Drive for a boat and method for operating a drive for a boat
   Technical field
   The present invention relates to a drive for a boat, in particular for a sailing boat, and a method for
 5 operating a drive for a boat.
   Technical Background
   It is known to use boat drives with electric motors for moving boats, for example for maneuvering.
   For supplying the electric drives with power, batteries are usually used which are carried in the boat
   and can be charged, for example, by means of a charger provided with a shore connection. If no
 o shore connection is available, for example, because the boat is moving, generators with a
   combustion engine can be provided in the boat in order to charge the batteries, or solar cells or
   wind generators are known, by means of which the batteries can be charged.
   Electric motors in drives of boats are usually operated in the first quadrant for providing a forward
   thrust and thus for moving forwards, and in the third quadrant for providing a reverse thrust and thus
 5 for moving backwards or for stopping. The electric motor or the control device thereof usually
   receives the respective movement commands via a remote throttle control from an operator of the
   boat.
   Summary of the invention
   Starting from the known prior art, it is an object of the present invention to provide a drive for a boat,
20 in particular a sailing boat, which provides an alternative procedure for charging the batteries.
   The object is achieved by a drive and a method according to the independent claims. Advantageous
   further embodiments are apparent from the subordinate claims, the present description and the
   drawings.
   Accordingly, a drive for a boat, in particular a sailing boat, is proposed which comprises an electric
25 motor, a propeller connected to the electric motor, and a control device. The control device is
   configured to operate the electric motor in the fourth quadrant in such a way that, by this motor, flow

                                                         2
   energy of the water surrounding the propeller and transmitted via the propeller to the electric motor
   is regenerated into electrical power.
   In this case, and in the following description, a regeneration of electrical energy from flow energy is
   an at least partial conversion of the flow energy of the water into electrical power. Thus, it is
 5 possible to charge the batteries on board the boat by the movement of the boat through the water.
   This can be implemented particularly preferably in sailing boats since here the propulsion generated
   by the sails can be partially converted into electrical power. Thus, whilst sailing, a sailing boat can
   convert energy from its travel through the water into electrical power, by means of which the
   onboard batteries can be charged again.
 o Furthermore, the control device is preferably configured to operate the electric motor in the fourth
   quadrant in such a way that a product of a propeller pitch of the propeller and a rotational speed of
   the propeller is smaller than a relative flow speed between the water and the drive. In this way an
   optimized operation can be achieved and surplus electrical energy can be provided, which can then
   be used for charging the batteries.
 5 In this case and in what follows, the term "quadrant" relates to the quadrants of a Cartesian
   coordinates system, wherein the rotational speed of the electric motor is plotted on the abscissa
   and the torque of the electric motor is plotted on the ordinate. In synchronous motors the rotational
   speed of the electric motor is also accompanied by a proportionately induced voltage. The torque is
   also characterized by the length and direction of the phase current indicator, which then describes
 o the height and direction of the torque.
   During operation in the first quadrant (so-called forward running) the torque and the direction of
   rotation are both positive and thus parallel. During operation in the second quadrant (so-called
   reverse running braking) the torque is positive and the direction of rotation is negative and thus
   antiparallel. During operation in the third quadrant (so-called reverse running) the torque and
25 direction of rotation are both negative and thus also parallel. During operation in the fourth quadrant
   (so-called regeneration or also forward running braking) the torque is positive and the direction of
   rotation is negative and thus antiparallel. Thus, in the regeneration mode in the fourth quadrant the
   direction of rotation of the propeller is positive, whereas the torque of the propeller is negative.
   Accordingly, the operation of the electric motor in the fourth quadrant takes place in such a way that
30 the product of the rotational speed and the propeller pitch, in particular the magnitude thereof, is
   smaller than the relative flow speed, in particular the magnitude thereof. The product of the
   rotational speed and the propeller pitch may be the theoretical propulsion of the propeller which can
   be achieved with the same rotational speed and propeller pitch during operation in the first

                                                           3
   quadrant. In this case and in what follows, the ratio of the product of the rotational speed and the
   propeller pitch to the relative flow speed is also designated as the gain factor. In particular, the
   amplification factor can be constant and can be less than one. In this case and in what follows, the
   propeller pitch corresponds to the geometric pitch of the propeller. In particular the propeller pitch
 5 can correspond to the distance which the propeller would travel during a revolution in a solid
   material. The propeller pitch may be a constant or an averaged progressive pitch of the propeller.
   By operation of the drive as a regenerator in the fourth quadrant it is possible to convert the flow
   energy of the water and/or the kinetic energy of the boat into electrical power for operation of the
   drive.
 o Alternatively or additionally it is possible that the boat contains a further drive which is operated, for
   example, by means of gasoline or diesel. The combination of the drive and the further drive can be
   a hybrid drive. The electrical drive can have an energy accumulator, such as for example a battery.
   The energy accumulator can serve for storage of the electrical power regenerated from the flow
   energy.
 5 Furthermore, the control device can also be configured to operate the electric motor in such a way
   that the gain factor is constant. In this way it is possible to achieve a maximum regeneration
   performance. An optimal gain, that is to say the optimal ratio of propeller pitch and rotational speed
   to the relative speed, results for example from the geometry of the propeller, in particular a propeller
   shape and a propeller diameter. With a given geometry it is possible to calculate the optimal gain
 o theoretically. The theoretically calculated value for the optimal gain can then be subjected, for
   example, to a practical verification and optimization performance during operation of the drive, for
   example using a regulating unit.
   According to a preferred embodiment the propeller is designed as a folding propeller. A folding
   propeller is particularly preferably used in a sailing boot in order during sailing to provide the lowest
25 possible resistance due to the drive, but to achieve high propulsion during use of the drive. In
   particular, the propeller can be a two-blade folding propeller.
   The control device is configured to operate the electric motor, before the operation in the fourth
   quadrant, initially in the first quadrant, that is to say in forward running, in order to fold out the
   propeller. Thus, initially the propeller is accelerated to a predetermined rotational speed by means
30 of the motor in order to enable folding out. The folding out of the folding propeller takes place on the
   basis of the centrifugal force of the propeller blades, which accordingly fold out above a specific
   rotational speed. The operation in the first quadrant can assist the opening of the propeller, since in
   motor-powered operation an action of force is produced which pushes the boat and thus also

                                                           4
   presses on the folding propeller. The operation of the propeller which is then folded out is then
   carried out in the fourth quadrant as described above.
   Particularly preferably in this case the electric motor is kept constant at a rotational speed which, on
   the one hand, enables the most efficient operation possible of the electric motor in the third
 5 quadrant but, on the other hand, simultaneously also prevents the propeller from folding back in.
   A folding propeller is characterized in that the propeller, in particular the blades or vanes thereof,
   can be folded in. This can be advantageous in the case of a drive for sailing boats, since the flow
   resistance of the propeller in sailing mode can be reduced. The propeller can be folded out for the
   use of the drive. This gives rise to the challenge that, on the basis of the centrifugal forces that
 o occur, the propeller is normally folded out only during operation in the first quadrant and possibly in
   the third quadrant, that is to say with an active forward or reverse operation of the motor. Turning of
   the folded-in propeller by the inflowing water is neither possible nor desirable in normal operation
   in fact the propeller is constructed so that without a drive it folds in reliably due to the electric motor
   in order to achieve the least possible resistance during sailing and thus with the motor switched off.
 5 However, it may definitely be necessary to assist the folding closed of the propeller by securing the
   propeller or by operating it at a very low rotational speed. In other words, not only the folding up of
   the folding propeller, but also the folding closed of the folding propeller can be achieved by a
   corresponding control of the electric motor.
   In order now to enable operation in the fourth quadrant with a folding propeller during the travel
 o through water, the electric motor can be operated, in particular temporarily, in the first quadrant. As
   a result, the propeller is folded out. If the relative flow speed is sufficiently high, in particular positive,
   it is possible to switch over to operation in the fourth quadrant and to maintain the rotation of the
   propeller due to the inflowing water, wherein the rotational speed of the propeller is controlled and
   monitored by the control unit. The direction of rotation of the propeller doesn't change due to the
25 switching over of the operation from the first quadrant to the fourth quadrant. The propeller then
   continues to be folded out, wherein flow energy is now converted into electrical power.
   Furthermore, it is possible that the propeller is configured to be operated first of all in the third
   quadrant for operation in the second quadrant.
   Particularly preferably the control device is provided in order to provide at least one minimum
30 rotational speed of the folding propeller in operation in the fourth quadrant, in order to prevent the
   propeller from folding in during operation in the fourth quadrant.

                                                         5
   According to at least one embodiment of the drive, the relative flow speed comprises a boat speed
   and/or an absolute flow speed of the water. The relative flow speed may be a difference between
   the boat speed and the absolute flow speed. Particularly preferably, the relative flow speed is an
   approach flow speed of the water with respect to the propeller. The boat speed may be the speed of
 5 the boat relative to the ground. The absolute flow speed of the water may be an approach flow
   speed of the water measured in the region of the boat relative to the ground. In particular, in the
   event of stronger flows the speed of the boat relative to the ground can deviate from the speed of
   the boat through the water. For example, it is possible that the operation takes place in the fourth
   quadrant when the boat is at anchor. In this case the boat speed is negligibly low and the relative
 o flow speed can be the absolute flow speed. Furthermore, it is possible that the boat moves through
   the water during the operation in the fourth quadrant. In the case of approximately flowless water
   such as, for example, in the case of a calm lake, the relative flow speed can be the boat speed over
   ground.
   According to at least one embodiment the drive comprises at least one sensor. The at least one
 5 sensor is configured to determine the relative flow speed. The at least one sensor may be, for
   example, a dynamic pressure pipe, a flow sensor and/or further speed sensors. The drive preferably
   comprises a plurality of sensors. It is possible that at least one of the sensors is a sensor of the
   boat, which sensor is connected to the control device.
   According to a preferred embodiment the sensor contains a GPS sensor and/or a flow sensor. In
 o this case, for example, a GPS sensor and/or a flow sensor of the boat can be used. In particular,
   the boat speed of the boat, that is to say the speed in relation to the ground, can be determined
   precisely by means of a GPS sensor. Thus, in the case of low absolute flow speeds of the water this
   results in a very precise determination of the relative flow speed.
   According to at least one embodiment of the drive the control device is configured to regulate the
25 rotational speed of the propeller depending upon the determined relative flow speed. In this case
   the control device with the sensor can form, in particular, an open loop. For example, in the event of
   an increase in the relative flow speed the rotational speed of the propeller can be increased, or vice
   versa. Alternatively or in addition it is possible that the regulation takes place in such a way that the
   rotational speed of the propeller is kept, in particular in the case of a constant relative flow speed.
30 According to at least one embodiment the drive comprises a regulating device, and a power sensor
   for determining the power output by the electric motor. The control device forms with the power
   sensor a closed loop for regulating the rotational speed of the propeller. The closed loop is
   preferably a feedback loop. By means of the loop the rotational speed of the propeller can then be

                                                        6
   adapted depending upon the determined power of the electric motor. Thus, a power regulation may
   be responsible for specifying the rotational speed.
   The regulating device is preferably configured to regulate the rotational speed of the propeller by
   means of a maximum power point tracker (MPPT). With such a method the output power is
 5 monitored, preferably continuously, by means of the power sensor. By means of the regulating
   device the rotational speed of the propeller can then be adapted depending upon the determined
   power of the electric motor. The rotational speed of the electric motor is preferably adapted by
   means of the maximum power point tracking in such a way that the transmitted output and thus the
   regeneration is at a maximum.
 o For the setting of an optimal working point of the electric motor, an open loop can preferably be
   combined with a closed loop. Thus, it is possible, first of all, to achieve a pilot control by means of
   an open loop for the rough setting of the working point. The fine optimization can then be achieved
   by means of a closed loop. The optimal working point is preferably a rotational speed of the electric
   motor or of the propeller, at which the regeneration is at a maximum. The regulation described
 5 above based upon the relative flow speed is suitable, for example as an open loop. The power
   adaptation described above can be used, in particular, for the closed loop.
   Due to a combination of an open and a closed loop it is possible, in particular, to combine the
   advantages of both methods. An advantage of the use of an open loop based upon a measurement
   of the relative flow speed lies, for example, in the relative constancy of the boat speed both through
 o the water and also over ground, so that it is possible to compensate well for hydrodynamically
   induced fluctuations of the torque of the propeller and/or of the electric motor, in particular on the
   basis of the absolute flow speed of the water. With the closed loop a precise optimization of the
   rotational speed by means of an optimization of the output power can be achieved. Through the
   combination of the open and the closed loop the gain of the closed loop can be reduced, so that the
25 system acquires a higher stability.
   According to at least one embodiment, the propeller pitch is a function of the relative flow speed.
   This is the case in propellers having an adjustable pitch, which are also known as autopropellers. In
   other words, the propeller pitch changes with a rising and/or falling relative flow speed. The control
   device is configured to regulate the rotational speed of the propeller depending upon the relative
30 flow speed and this function.
   The regulation preferably takes place by means of an open loop, in particular by means of the
   previously described open loop. Preferably for the case of the open loop, the drive can contain a
   storage unit in which the function is stored. For example, the function of the propeller pitch is stored

                                                        7
   as a look-up table in the storage unit. Alternatively or in addition, the regulation of the rotational
   speed in the case of such a speed-dependent propeller pitch can also take place by means of a
   maximum power point tracking. In this case the adaptation of the gain to the propeller pitch, which
   changes with the rotational speed, takes place adaptively as a function of the rotational speed. The
 5 tracking of the gain can also be carried out by maximum power point tracking.
   In addition to the autopropellers, propellers are also known with an externally changeable pitch.
   In the propellers with externally changeable propeller pitch, the propeller pitch can be adapted by
   the control device so that, in connection with the likewise adapted propeller speed, an optimization
   with respect to the operation in the fourth quadrant can be carried out and thus a maximum
 o regeneration power can be achieved at the respective relative flow speed.
   By taking account of the function by means of the control device it is possible to compensate for a
   change in the propeller geometry with the relative flow speed. This can be advantageous in
   particular for the case where the propeller is a folding propeller. In the case of a folding propeller it
   is possible that this gradually closes with an increasing speed of the boat in the water, and thus with
 5 an increasing relative flow speed. This can lead to a change in the propeller geometry and thus in
   the gain factor. For this case it can be advantageous to take account of a speed-dependent gain
   factor in particular using a look-up table.
   Due to the proposed regulation it is also possible to react to the changing propeller geometry with
   increasing regeneration power and/or increasing flow speed. Due to an increased regeneration
 o power and/or an increased flow speed, the folding propeller folds in to some extent at the same
   rotational speed and thus with the same centrifugal force having an opening action on the propeller
   blades, until a balance of forces is restored. Thus, the effective propeller geometry changes, which
   is taken into account by the proposed regulation during operation.
   In this connection a device for locking the propeller blades in the folded-out position can be
25 provided, which mechanically prevents folding in of the propeller blades in the regeneration
   operation and in particular with an increasing regeneration power or an increasing flow speed. The
   device for locking the propeller blades in the folded-out position is preferably also controlled by the
   control device or, on the basis of a predetermined operational model of the electric motor, can be
   transferred to the device for locking the propeller blades.
30 Furthermore, a method for operating a drive for a boat, in particular for a sailing boat, is provided.
   The method is preferably suitable for operating a drive for a boat described here. In other words, all
   features disclosed for the device are also disclosed for the method, and vice versa.

                                                          8
   According to the object of the invention set out above, in a method step of the method a drive is
   provided, wherein the drive comprises an electric motor, a propeller connected to the electric motor,
   and a control device. In a further method step the propeller is introduced into water. The water has
   a relative flow speed with respect to the drive. In a further method step the electric motor is
 5 operated by the control device in the fourth quadrant in such a way that the flow energy of the water
   transmitted by means of the propeller to the electric motor is regenerated into electrical power and
   that a product of a propeller pitch of the propeller and a rotational speed of the propeller is smaller
   than the relative flow speed.
   According to at least one embodiment of the method the electric motor is operated in the fourth
 o quadrant while the boat moves through the water. Such an operation is suitable in particular in the
   case of a sailing boat. In this case the sailing boat can be move using the sails.
   Alternatively or additionally it is possible that the boat has a further drive, for example by means of
   an internal combustion engine by means of which the boat is moved through the water. Because of
   the movement of the boat the water moves with the relative flow speed to the drive of the boat. The
 5 flow energy resulting from this can then be converted partially into electrical power by the operation
   in the fourth quadrant. Alternatively or additionally in this case it is possible that the electric motor is
   operated in the fourth quadrant while the boat is at a fixed location relative to the ground, that is to
   say for example is lying at anchor. In this case is the flow energy results primarily from the flow of
   the water around the boat. This is particularly advantageous in areas with high tides or when lying in
 o a river.
   According to at least one embodiment of the method the propeller is a folding propeller. Before the
   operation of the electric motor in the fourth quadrant the electric motor is operated in the first
   quadrant in order to fold out the propeller. Operation, in particular temporarily, in the first quadrant
   assists folding out of the electric motor and thus creates the prerequisite for an operation as
25 regenerator for regeneration of flow energy.
   The electric motor is preferably operated in the first quadrant at a somewhat higher rotational speed
   and in the fourth quadrant at a somewhat lower rotational speed than the rotational speed at which
   the product of rotational speed and pitch corresponds to the relative flow speed.
   According to at least one embodiment of the method the drive contains a regulating device and a
30 power sensor for determining the power output by the electric motor. The regulating device forms
   with the power sensor a closed loop for regulating the rotational speed of the propeller. The
   rotational speed of the propeller is then set by means of maximum power point tracking using the
   closed loop.

                                                          9
   Furthermore, a drive for a boat, in particular for a sailing boat, is proposed which comprises an
   electric motor and a propeller, which is connected to the electric motor and of which the axis of
   rotation is pivotable relative to a vertical axis of the electric motor oriented perpendicularly to the
   propeller shaft, and has a control device. According to the invention the control device is configured
 5 to pivot the axis of rotation of the propeller relative to the forward thrust operation by 1800 about the
   vertical axis and to operate the electric motor in the second quadrant in such a way that, by this
   motor flow, energy transmitted via the propeller to the electric motor is regenerated into electrical
   power.
   An arrangement of a propeller, of which the axis of rotation is pivotable with respect to the vertical
 o axis, can be achieved for example by accommodating the electric motor and the propeller in a
   nacelle pivotable below the boat about the vertical axis, or by a pivotable Saildrive or Z-Drive.
   Due to the reversal of the axis of rotation of the propeller, the propeller is oriented more or less
   opposite the direction of travel of the boat. Thus, the propeller can be set in rotation by the inflowing
   water, wherein the propeller then rotates backwards, that is to say in a direction of rotation which
 5 corresponds to a reverse thrust. A regeneration of the flow energy into electrical power can then
   take place by operation of the electric motor in the second quadrant.
   If a folding propeller is to be used here, the inflowing water acts in the folding-out direction of the
   propeller, so that short-term operation in the third quadrant can be omitted.
   The further embodiments which relate to the control and regulation of the electric motor, and are
 o described above with respect to operation in the fourth quadrant, apply analogously to operation in
   the second quadrant.
   Brief description of the drawings
   Preferred further embodiments of the invention are explained in greater detail by the following
   description of the drawings. In the drawings:
25 Figure 1          shows a schematic representation of a first embodiment of a drive described here;
                     and
   Figure 2          shows a schematic representation of a second embodiment of a drive described
                     here.

                                                         10
   Detailed description of preferred exemplary embodiments
   Preferred exemplary embodiments are described below with reference to the drawings. In this case
   elements which are the same, similar, of the same kind or act in the same way are provided with
   identical reference numerals in den different drawings. Repeated description of some of these
 5 elements is omitted in order to avoid redundancies. The drawings and the size ratios of the
   elements illustrated in the drawings elements should not be regarded as drawn to scale relative to
   one another. On the contrary, individual elements may be shown as excessively large for better
   illustration and/or to aid understanding.
   A first exemplary embodiment of a drive 1 described here is explained in greater detail with
 o reference to the schematic sketch in Figure 1. The drive 1 comprises an electric motor 4 and a
   propeller 2, which is connected to the electric motor 4 by means of a drive shaft 41. A rotary
   movement of the electric motor 4, in particular the rotational speed thereof, can be transmitted to
   the propeller 2 by means of the drive shaft 41. Moreover, the drive 1 comprises a first housing 31, a
   second housing 32 and a third housing 33. The first housing 31 serves for example for fastening of
 5 the drive 1 on a hull of a boat. The third housing 33 contains the electric motor 4. The housing 31,
   32, 33 can be designed to be watertight. In other words, devices such as for example the electric
   motor 4 located in the housings 31, 32, 33 can be protected against the water surrounding the boat
   by the respective housing 31, 32, 33.
   The drive 1 further comprises a control device (not shown in the drawings) which is connected to
 o the electric motor 4. The control device is configured to regulate the rotational speed of the electric
   motor 4 and thus also of the propeller 2. The control device can be introduced into one of the
   housings 31, 32, 33. Alternatively the control device can be mounted on board the boat.
   The exemplary embodiment shown in the Figure 1 relates to a pod drive 1 with a folding propeller 2.
   The propeller 2 can be configured to be folded in. In the folded-in position 2', 2" the propeller 2 has
25 a lesser flow resistance than in the unfolded state.
   The drive 1 can also have sensors (not shown in the drawings). A relative flow speed of the drive 1,
   and in particular of the propeller 2, in relation to the water surrounding the drive 1 can be
   determined, for example, by means of the sensors. Alternatively or in addition a power sensor can
   be connected to the electric motor 4 of the drive 1 and can determine the power output by the
30 electric motor 4. The rotational speed of the electric motor 4 - and thus also of the propeller 2 - can
   be determined using maximum power point tracking.

                                                        11
  A second exemplary embodiment of a drive 1 described here is explained in greater detail with
  reference to the schematic sketch in Figure 2. The drive 1 again comprises an electric motor 4 and
  a propeller 2. A second housing 32 of the drive 1 can be provided for fastening to a hull of a boat.
  Contrary to the representation in the drawings, the propeller 2 can also include more than two
5 propeller blades. For example, the propeller 2 can include three or more propeller blades.
  The invention is not limited to these by the description with reference to the exemplary
  embodiments. On the contrary, the invention encompasses each new feature as well as any
  combination of features, in particular including any combination of features in the claims, even if this
  feature or this combination itself is not explicitly given in the claims or the exemplary embodiments.
D

                               12
  List of reference numerals
  1         drive
  2         propeller
  2',2"    folded-in propeller
5 31       first housing
  32        second housing
  33       third housing
  4         electric motor
  41        drive shaft
D

                                                       13
   Claims
   1.     Drive (1) for a boat, in particular a sailing boat, comprising an electric motor (4), a propeller
          (2) connected to the electric motor (4), and a control device,
 5        characterized in that
          the control device is configured to operate the electric motor (4) in the fourth quadrant in
          such a way that, by this motor, a flow energy transmitted via the propeller (2) to the electric
          motor (4) is regenerated into electrical power.
 D
   2.     Drive (1) according to claim 1, characterized in that the control device is configured to
          operate the electric motor (4) in such a way that a product of a propeller pitch of the
          propeller (2) and a rotational speed of the propeller (2) is smaller than a relative flow speed
          between the water and the drive.
 5 3.     Drive according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the propeller (2) is designed as a
          folding propeller and the control device is configured to operate the electric motor (4),
          before the operation in the fourth quadrant, initially in the first quadrant, that is to say in
          forward running, in order to fold out the propeller (2), and particularly preferably to maintain
          a predetermined minimum rotational speed of the propeller (2).
 o 4.     Drive according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a sensor for
          determining the relative flow speed between the drive and the water is connected to the
          control device.
   5.     Drive according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a GPS sensor
          for determining the relative ground speed of the drive is connected to the control device.
25 6.     Drive according to any one of the two preceding claims, characterized in that the control
          device is configured to regulate the rotational speed of the propeller (2) depending upon the
          determined relative flow speed and/or the ground speed.
   7.     Drive according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a power sensor
          is provided to determine the power output by the electric motor (4) and a regulating device
30        forms with the power sensor a closed loop for regulation of the rotational speed of the
          propeller (2).

                                                    14
   8.  Drive (1) for a boat, in particular a sailing boat, comprising an electric motor (4) and a
       propeller (2) which is connected to the electric motor (4) and of which the axis of rotation is
       pivotable relative to a vertical axis arranged perpendicular thereto, and a control device,
       characterized in that
 5     the control device is configured to pivot the axis of rotation of the propeller (2) relative to the
       forward thrust operation by 1800 about the vertical axis and to operate the electric motor (4)
       in the second quadrant in such a way that, by this motor, flow energy transmitted via the
       propeller (2) to the electric motor (4) is regenerated into electrical power.
   9.  Method for operating a drive (1) for a boat, in particular for a sailing boat, comprising the
 o     following steps:
            -   providing the drive (1), comprising an electric motor (4), a propeller (2) connected to
                the electric motor, and a control device,
            -   introducing the propeller (2) into water, wherein the water has a relative flow speed
                with respect to the drive (1),
 5          -   operating the electric motor (4) in the fourth quadrant with the control device in such
                a way that, by this motor, flow energy of the water transmitted via the propeller (2)
                to the electric motor is regenerated into electrical power.
   10. Method according to claim 9, wherein the control device controls or regulates the rotational
       speed of the propeller (2) so that a product of the pitch of the propeller (2) and the rotational
20     speed of the propeller (2) is smaller than the relative flow speed.
   11. Method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the propeller (2) is designed as a folding
       propeller and the electric motor (4) is operated initially in the first quadrant before the
       operation of the electric motor (4) in the fourth quadrant, in order to fold out the propeller
       (2), and particularly preferably to maintain a predetermined minimum rotational speed of the
25     propeller (2).
   12. Method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the drive comprises a power sensor
       to determine the power output by the electric motor (4) and a regulating device forms with
       the power sensor a closed loop for regulation of the rotational speed of the propeller (2),
       wherein the rotational speed of the propeller (2) is set by means of maximum power point
30     tracking using the closes loop.

                                                   15
  13. Method for operating a drive (1) for a boat, in particular for a sailing boat, comprising the
      following steps:
           -   Providing the drive (1), comprising an electric motor (4) and a propeller (2) which is
               connected to the electric motor (4) and of which the axis of rotation is pivotable
               relative to a vertical axis oriented perpendicularly thereto, and a control device,
           -   introducing the propeller (2) into water, wherein the water has a relative flow speed
              with respect to the drive (1),
           -   pivoting the axis of rotation of the propeller about the vertical axis by 1800 relative
               to the orientation in the forward thrust operation,
o          -   operating the electric motor (4) in the second quadrant with the control device in
               such a way that, by this motor, flow energy transmitted via the propeller (2) to the
               electric motor is regenerated into electrical power.

                                                                  TOR17592DE
<removed-date>
                            1/2
                                       1
<removed-apn>                      31
                                  32
                                               2
                                                         <U+2701>
                                                             <U+2701><U+2701>
              4
                  33   41                           <U+2701><U+2701>
                                           <U+2701>
                            2                      Fig. 1

                                         TOR17592DE
<removed-date>
                  2/2
<removed-apn>
                            1
                                    32
                                2
              4
                   41
                                    Fig. 2
                        2

