Epigram Decoder Cube Abstract
While dealing with the process of inventing, be it something unique,
a mere problem solving or creation of altogether a new product,
Epigrams have been used over centuries to this end. The tradition
goes back to oracles and soothsayers who dispensed a brief
statement, compressed, insightful, yet not showing any direct
connection with the problem at hand, leading to creative and
intuitive analysis of the problem at hand. The practical question
posited for investigation is: can we rather than speculating on the
meaning of an epigram         by storytelling, device a systematic
approach to decode its essential meaning           and relate those
meanings to modern practices leading to successful inventions. That
is the premise of the invention Epigram Decoder Cube (EDC), which
results in a practical methodology to interpret seemingly hidden
meaning behind epigrams which can be used for inventing using this
Epigram Decoder.

                              Symbol Listing
                               Contradiction
                               Concordance
                            ?   Problem Mapping
                               Solution Mapping
                                Hidden Dimension
                                New Dimension
(a)                                 (b)
               -NID    E
         -- _ DIMENS10N
    (c))
              New Dimension
                     (d)
      Epigram Decoder Cube
    Symbols and Visualisation
                 Figure 1/1

     Tradestylus Pty Ltd
Epigram Decoder Cube
 Patent Specifications
             Version: 1.00
         Author: R&D Manager
              Confidential
       @ 2018 Tradestylus Pty Ltd

                                         2
Document Revision History:
April 28,      1.00       R&D Manager      Patent Specification Final
2018                                       Document
Related Documents:
      Components of Epigram Decoder Cube            April 28, 2018

                                           3
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patent Act 1990
                                Epigram Decoder Cube
                                 Complete Specification
                                   Innovation Patent
The following statement is a full description of Epigram Decoder Cube, including the
methodology to create this invention.

                                   4
Epigram Decoder Cube - A methodology for
mapping Epigram Decoding Inventive Process
[0001] While dealing with the process of inventing, be it something
unique, a mere problem resolution or creation of altogether a new
product, Epigrams have been used over centuries to this end. The
tradition goes back to oracles and soothsayers who dispensed a
brief statement, compressed, insightful, yet not showing any direct
connection to the problem at hand. The next step was the process
of decoding the meaning of the epigram, which was intended
ultimately to lead to the final ideal solution or an invention. Although
still used even though not consistent within modern day context of
objectivity and verifiability, it is not scientifically studied and a
conceptual and practical model is not yet available. One of the
results of this approach is that it can lead to wild interpretation,
speculation and the rate of success of this methodology can be
totally unpredictable. The practical question posited for investigation
is: can we rather than speculating on the meaning of an epigram by
storytelling, device a systematic approach to decode its essential
meaning and relate those meanings to modern practices leading to
successful inventions? Can we encapsulate the methodology used
over centuries to decode epigrams in a speedy manner? Can we
capture that methodology, the trajectory used to decode epigrams in
an accessible model to make it useful to a wider community to
invent? That is the premise of the invention Epigram Decoder Cube
(EDC),    which results    in a practical methodology to interpret
seemingly hidden meaning behind epigrams used for inventing.
 [0002] The invention Epigram Decoder Cube is based on the
current practice of storytelling where an epigram is chosen, a story
is woven to highlight the hidden meanings behind an epigram and
then applied to the problem at hand. Extending it further, this

                                    5
process of translating epigram should also lead to theoretical
foundations of well-established tools and methodology used by
inventors. Notable works in this direction are scattered in literature
of creativity and inventions but one work stands out: credited to
Roger von Oech (Expect the Unexpected 2001), who compiled 30
notable Heraclitus epigrams and presented them with anecdotes
and stories to highlight how these epigrams can be used to solve
problem and invent something anew. Several other works use this
method by delivering a compressed statement (an epigram),
generally witty and insightful then an experienced person tries to
analyse the story, narrates anecdotes to draw on and suggests
solution to the problem under consideration. Obviously each set of
analysis is subjective and takes its own route and provides an
interesting way to illustrate how a simple statement, an epigram can
lead to numerous new ideas. The result of this approach is that each
analysis appears to be unique, dependent on                the wit and
interpretation skill of the leader or a teacher. Because of substantive
weightage on subjective approach, the method is although popular,
it has not been used as a systematic approach to inventing.         And
that is where the invention Epigram Decoder Cube unifies the
knowledge derived from interpretations carried out over centuries
into a coherent theory culminating into a practical tool, named
Epigram Decoder Cube.
[0003] There are two important issues to address before arriving at
the design of Epigram Decoder Cube, (i) how to unify literally
thousands of stories used to analyse epigrams with their inherent
contradictions    and,     (ii) after  their compilation,    how  these
interpretations can be used as a practical tool?          If one has to
depend on subjective story telling technique to analyse each
epigram, then its effectivity will diminish and it cannot be used by
wider scientific community. Specifically, how a practitioner can
dissect the story without the help of a story-teller and reach to the

                                   6
inherent message and then relate that message to modern day
inventive tools. Epigram Decoder Cube achieves it by analysing the
body of historical stock of stories and presents a unified theoretical
framework to analyse epigrams and map the analyses to inventive
tools.
[0004] In summary the invention EDC is constructed on the
premises that recorded historical analysis of epigrams can be
categorised and using that classification, one can reach to the core
of the epigram without any recourse to subjective story-telling and
deliver this tool to individual members of the team to compile and
consolidate    their   collective   work.   This     process   is   clearly
encapsulated     into   an   analytical  framework       which  eliminates
subjective storytelling and shifts the reliance on scientific inventive
tools. This is the scope of the invention titled Epigram Decoder
Cube.
Representation of Epigram Decoder Cube - the bridge between
the concept and practical implementation
[0005] After defining a concept, a logical framework of Epigram
Decoder Cube; the focus shifts to, how this tool can be used by
inventors to solve inventive problems and seek an ideal final
solution. This invention addresses two important aspects of solution
seeking,    these    being;   (i) a   conceptual      framework    visually
represented    as the decoder tool         and   (ii) symbols     used to
communicate the concepts leading to a practical tool. Thus there are
notable and      important aspects of the tool which             must   be
encapsulated within this invention. The conceptual framework is
represented by Epigram Decoder Cube based on the analysis of
story telling techniques used over centuries The second is;
representation of the Decoder Cube by symbolic notations so that it
can be recalled naturally by inventors without any distraction of

                                   7
memorising the intricate working of the Decoder Cube.              These
unique properties result in a workable tool, which in the context of
this invention, is called a structured process of quickly analysing an
epigram, accept it or reject it for its application to a particular case,
and then finally reach to the core of the problem.
Epigram Decoder Cube Design Overview
[0006] The core component of the patent is the depiction of the
Decoder Cube, which summarises the essence of an epigram
without restoring to lengthy story telling technique to arrive at a
signal or a pathway leading to an invention.
[0007] The next step of the process is to provide a structured
outcome which represents a form which can be filled by an inventor
and lead to problem resolution. The representation using form filling
communicates effectively to a range of inventors with varying
technical background; that is to trained scientists and engineers on
one end of the spectrum and to practical problem solvers with little
formal training at the other end of the horizon.
[0008] Epigram Decoder Cube then takes this feature a step further.
It achieves a quick resolution leading to either accepting or
discarding epigrams which may not be relevant or do not directly
relate to a particular inventive context. Ultimately an inventor is the
final arbiter with inherent domain knowledge to accept or discard an
interpretation offered by Epigram Decoder.
[0009] Finally Epigram Decoder Cube transforms this theory into a
practical tool making it available to a large number of users
encouraging to use the single orthographic presentational view as a
substitute for the 'form filling process', offering more time to the
inventor to concentrate on searching for additional solutions and at

                                   8
the same time tracking the progress and sharing inventive work with
other team members.
Components of the Invention Epigram Decoder Cube
[0010] The invention Epigram Decoder Cube consists of a visual
representation to decode an epigram effectively and decide on its
applicability to a particular problem solving exercise. This process is
divided into three parts; (i) visual representation of the decoder cube
derived from storytelling techniques which have been used over
centuries; (ii) Symbolic representation of the Epigram Decoder Cube
in   three    dimensions,    segmented      to   cover    the  range   of
interpretations; (iii) an invention panel representing orthographic
projection view, called routinisation or 'form filling' process to record
insights and finding.
[0011] The invention Epigram Decoder Cube is fully exposed in the
accompanying figures. Figure 1 shows the invention Epigram
Decoder Cube with sub-diagrams (a), (b), (c) and (d), addressing
different aspects of the inventive process. Thus the key elements of
the Epigram Decoder Cube are defined by; (i) A method of
representing decoded elements by 3 dimensional view identified by
its symbolic meaning for each face of the cube; (ii) A method of
representing the symbolic components in a linear table, (iii) A
method of representing the decoder in orthographical projection
view, (iv) A method of representing hidden and new dimension of
the Epigram, (v) A method of utilising orthographic projection view to
serve for 'form filling process'.

                                  1
Epigram Decoder Cube Claims
The invention Epigram Decoder Cube has the following key claims:
   1. A     method     of  representing decoded    elements    by   3
      dimensional view identified by its symbolic meaning for each
      face of the cube;
   2. A method of representing the symbolic components in a
       linear table
   3. A method of representing the Decoder in orthographic
       projection view,
   4. A method of representing hidden and new dimension of the
       Epigram,
   5. A method of utilising orthographic projection view to serve for
       'form filling process'.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
