                                            ABSTRACT
        An EHSN communication protocol that uses a beaconing scheme to facilitate
communication between multiple low power sensor nodes. In the illustrative embodiment, the
desired sensor data flows through a series of sensor nodes from the origin sensor to a destination
node through a set of intermediate relay nodes. Transmissions from one node to another occur
using a receiver-initiated beaconing scheme, in which beacons are sent by each node when they
have harvested sufficient energy to relay data. The specific set of relay nodes is chosen
opportunistically from the total set of nodes in the network, based on which nodes have
harvested sufficient energy (and broadcasted the appropriate beacon), and which nodes are
optimally positioned to forward data to the destination node.

                                 1/3
                                                  ....                   SERVER
                                                   ......                  100
                                           ......          200..8
        200.....2
                                                  ........                200.9
                                        HARVSTIN
                                ENERG SENSRV20
             Ambient..energy
212(soar, themal,.Eg.,.tem                                        eratur
            vibrationa,
              wind'.                       SE SOR.sensor
                  RF)                         230.accelerometer
    ENERGY..ENE..GY
                   DE IC--
             DEVICE----
210    214             220                 MICO-.WIREESS.26
             Elecric                     CONROLER               TRASCIVE.
                  l .eerg.24.25
                              FIGURE...2

      A MULTI-HOP NETWORKING PROTOCOL FOR WIDE-AREA ENERGY HARVESTING
                                  SENSOR NETWORK DEPLOYMENTS
    TECHNICAL FIELD
    The present disclosure relates generally to sensor networks, and more particularly to a multi-hop
 5  networking protocol for a network of energy harvesting sensors. Energy harvesting sensor
    networks (EHSNs) can be applied in many areas, including aircraft cabin systems, manufacturing
    facilities, and the like.
    BACKGROUND
    Low power sensors currently require batteries to function. Because the batteries require periodic
 0  replacement. Due to the cost of maintenance, the low power sensors are not ideal for wide
    distribution (e.g., thousands throughout an aircraft) or inaccessible locations (e.g., such as an
    aircraft engine). Moreover, battery-powered sensor networks are inappropriate for some
    applications due to environmental concerns arising from the risk of battery leakage. Low power
    sensors with energy harvesting capabilities can be used instead of battery powered sensors, but
 5  data transmission from sensor-to-sensor may fail if one sensor in the data transmission chain
    lacks the power to continue the transmission, which occurs due to the unpredictable and random
    nature of energy sources. To avoid such data transmission failures an EHSN communication
    protocol is needed to facilitate the transmission of data between energy harvesting devices.
 .0 Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
    included in the present disclosure is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
    matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to
    the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
25  Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
    "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
    group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
    or group of elements, integers or steps.
                                                       1

    SUMMARY
    An illustrative embodiment provides an EHSN communication protocol that uses a beaconing
    scheme to facilitate communication between multiple low power sensor nodes. In the illustrative
    embodiment, the desired sensor data flows through a series of sensor nodes from the origin
 5  sensor to a destination node through a set of intermediate relay nodes. Transmissions from one
    node to another occur using a receiver-initiated beaconing scheme, in which beacons are sent by
    each node when they have harvested sufficient energy to relay data. The specific set of relay
    nodes is chosen opportunistically from the total set of nodes in the network, based on which
    nodes have harvested sufficient energy (and broadcasted the appropriate beacon), and which
 0  nodes are optimally positioned to forward data to the destination node.
    One embodiment of the present disclosure takes the form of an energy harvesting sensor
    network. The network comprises a plurality of energy harvesting sensors operating as nodes,
    wherein each of the energy harvesting sensors is configured to operate in accordance with a
    predefined communication protocol. In addition, the network includes a server configured to
 5  wirelessly communicate with the energy harvesting sensors. The predefined communication
    protocol includes a RECEIVE state in which a node transmits a ready to receive (RTR) beacon
    indicating to other nodes that it is awake and has sufficient energy to receive and retransmit a
    data packet.
    Another embodiment of the present disclosure takes the form of an energy harvesting node. The
 '0 node includes an energy harvesting device; an energy storage device; coupled to the energy
    harvesting device; a microcontroller; and a wireless transceiver coupled to the microcontroller.
    The microcontroller and wireless transceiver are powered by the energy storage device. The
    microcontroller is configured to operate the energy harvesting node in accordance with a
    predefined communication protocol in which the transceiver transmits an RTR beacon indicating
25  that the node is awake and has sufficient energy to receive a data packet from another node and
    to retransmit the data packet.
    Another embodiment of the present disclosure takes the form of a method employed by at least a
    first energy harvesting node in a network. The method includes the following steps. Nodes
    remain in a SLEEP state until a predetermined threshold of energy has been harvested. Upon
                                                      2

   harvesting the predetermined threshold of energy, the node enters a TRANSMIT state or a
   RECEIVE state based on a non-deterministic function. In the RECEIVE state, the node transmits
   an RTR beacon indicating that it is ready to receive data, and receives data from a second node.
   In the TRANSMIT state, the node waits for an RTR beacon from another node, detects whether
 5 any other node is currently transmitting data. Preferably, if no other node is currently
   transmitting data, it transmits data to sender of the RTR beacon. If another node is currently
   transmitting data, the first node delays transmission until the channel is free.
   Additional features are described below.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 0 Figure 1 schematically depicts an illustrative embodiment of a wide-area energy harvesting
   sensor network.
   Figure 2 schematically depicts an illustrative embodiment of an energy harvesting sensor.
   Figure 3 is a flow diagram of the inventive EHSN communication protocol.
   Figure 4 is an example timing diagram for two nodes.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
   In the following sections, an overview of an illustrative embodiment of an EHSN in accordance
   with the present disclosure is provided first. Next is a more detailed description of various
   aspects of the communication protocol, including a comparison with alternative approaches, an
   EHSN media access control (MAC) protocol, details of receiver and transmitter modes of
20 operation, and opportunistic relaying.
   Scheduling and routing between energy harvesting devices requires careful consideration to
   allow such devices to be networked for large-scale deployments, airplane cabins, and factory
   floor applications. A wireless sensor network refers to a collection (and potentially a large
   collection) of low-power devices each of which is capable of measuring environmental data (e.g.,
25 temperature, pressure, health, etc.) or the presence of an event (e.g., failure, proximity, etc.) and
   communicating these measurements wirelessly to a central processing server. Wireless sensors
                                                       3

   enable deployments in environments where wiring is impractical, and in size, weight, and power
   (SWAP)-constrained environments. Currently, sensor network deployment is limited by cost and
   battery life, particularly in environments where replacing nodes and batteries is infeasible or
   impractical due to the quantity or location of sensors. Energy harvesting technology to generate
 5 energy for a sensor's operation is suited to these environments.
   Harvesting energy from the sun, wind, temperature gradients, or vibrations can increase the
   lifetime of a sensor network dramatically by providing renewable energy. Communication
   protocols provide deterministic networking guarantees amidst the uncertain and variable energy
   replenishment processes. The multi-hop EHSN networking protocol solves the issue of enabling
 0 communication and networking between energy harvesting sensor nodes, which facilitates wide
   area deployments. In these environments, single-hop, infrastructure-based communication can be
   infeasible due to power requirements for long-distance transmissions and multipath fading
   profiles. However, to enable mesh networking with energy-harvesting nodes, each transmitter
   needs to know that the next receiver in the chain of communication has sufficient energy
 5 resources to receive and relay a packet without relying on centralized control or global
   synchronization. The disclosed EHSN communication protocol uses receiver-initiated beaconing
   to find relays with sufficient energy for reception and retransmission, and opportunistic relaying
   to forward packets without relying on traditional fixed routes. This disclosure uses beacons both
   for the purpose of scheduling and routing.
 0 Figure 1 schematically depicts an EHSN including a server 100 and a number of sensor nodes
   denoted by reference numerals 200-1 through 200-9. In the exemplary network of Figure 1, the
   shaded nodes (nodes 200-1, 200-4, 200-5, 200-6, and 200-7) are assumed to have sufficient
   energy for transmission and reception whereas the remaining nodes (nodes 200-2, 200-3, 200-8,
   and 200-9) are assumed not to have sufficient energy for transmission or reception. This
25 represents a snapshot in time of the energy state of the EHSN, as over time energy will be
   harvested, consumed and eventually nodes will have sufficient energy for communication. In this
   network model, the nodes are designed to convey data to the server 100. The server could be
   powered by battery or by an electric utility, but the nodes are powered by energy harvesting
   devices. The nodes transition between SLEEP and WAKE states depending on their respective
                                                      4

    energy levels. Each node requires sufficient power before it can transmit and receive data, and
    will remain idle in the WAKE state.
    In one exemplary environment, the EHSN is deployed throughout an aircraft, for purposes such,
    e.g., as ice detection on exterior surfaces, cabin pressure measurement within the interior,
 5  proximity sensing, and engine health monitoring. Possible energy sources in such an
    environment include photovoltaics (solar, interior lighting, etc.), vibrational (piezoelectric),
    temperature gradient, air pressure, mechanical (e.g., push-button), and ambient RF energy.
    The illustrative embodiment of Figure 1 employs a new EHSN communication paradigm.
    Whereas the goal in a battery-powered network is to maximize lifetime (nodes are always
 0  available but need to conserve energy), the goal of the EHSN is to maximize throughput/quality
    of-service subject to energy harvesting constraints. The low-energy networking protocols used
    for battery-powered sensor networks are not optimal for an EHSN. In an EHSN, most energy
    consumption is for communication purposes since transmission and reception of data require a
    relatively large amount of energy, and even idle listening requires energy use. When a node
 5  depletes its energy, it enters the SLEEP state and hibernates until sufficient energy has been
    harvested. A key challenge with an EHSN is that the energy harvesting process is uncontrollable
    and the timing is unknown. In other words, there is no knowledge of when a node will have
    harvested sufficient energy to re-enter the WAKE state. This in turn makes it difficult to provide
    deterministic networking guarantees.
 '0 Figure 2 is a schematic or block diagram of an energy harvesting sensor 200. The energy
    harvesting sensor 200 includes hardware elements that are well understood by those skilled in the
    art. In this embodiment, the energy harvesting sensor 200 includes an energy harvesting device
    210 that supplies electrical energy 214 to an energy storage device 220. The stored energy from
    device 220 is consumed by a low-power sensor 230, microcontroller 240, and wireless
25  transceiver 250, which transmits and receives data via antenna 260. As indicated by reference
    212, ambient energy in the form of solar, thermal, vibrational, wind, RF, etc., is harvested by
    device 210.
    This disclosure schedules and routes between energy harvesting devices suited for multi-hop
    energy harvesting networks. This disclosure configures receivers to send beacons upon
                                                       5

    harvesting sufficient energy, allowing transmitters to learn about feasible relays with minimal
    overhead.
    A mesh network provides flexibility in that when some nodes have insufficient energy to forward
    data, other nodes can be used instead to reduce packet delay.
 5  The disclosure uses opportunistic forwarding, which chooses a relay on a packet-by-packet basis
    based on which nodes have sufficient energy. This enables energy usage to be distributed across
    the network allowing the EHSN to meet application performance requirements under restrictive
    energy harvesting constraints.
    The following details the specifics of a proposed EHSN-MAC protocol. EHSN-MAC is designed
 0  for energy harvesting (EH) node-to-EH node communication as well as EH node-to-powered
    node communication. To facilitate communication with energy harvesting receivers, EHSN
    MAC uses receiver-initiated beaconing in which receivers are responsible for beaconing to alert
    neighbors that they are in the active (or WAKE) state. This has the dual effect of spreading the
    overhead evenly between transmitters and receivers, and providing information for the
 5  transmitters to make routing and forwarding decisions.
    An overview of the protocol is shown in the flow chart of Figure 3. The flowchart of Figure 3
    represents the operation of a sensor, or node, in each of the RECEIVE, TRANSMIT, and SLEEP
    states. Typically, the nodes will be configured to operate in this way via software. Thus, it will
    be understood by those skilled in the art that program code can be written so as to configure each
 '0 node to operate according to the flowchart.
    As shown, in accordance with the EHSN-MAC protocol, the nodes operate in a RECEIVE state
    300, TRANSMIT state 400, or SLEEP state 500. Nodes enter the SLEEP state 500 to harvest
    sufficient energy for communication. Nodes will remain in this state until enough energy has
    been harvested, as determined by a wakeup threshold on the battery level. In Figure 3, this is
25  indicated at reference numeral 510. Upon waking as indicated at 520, nodes will either enter the
    RECEIVE state 300 or the TRANSMIT state 400, which is determined by a (potentially non
    deterministic) function of backlog. Any function for choosing Transmit or Receive could be
    used. For example, the function could be random as in flipping a coin, or could be "enter
                                                      6

   Transmit state if the backlog is greater than a threshold". The operation of the nodes in the
   RECEIVE and TRANSMIT states is explained below.
            RECEIVE State 300
   As can be seen, the RECEIVE state 300 comprises a number of iterative constructs (branching or
 5 looping) represented by diamond-shaped blocks including blocks 320, 340, 370, 360, and 380.
   Each of these diamond-shaped blocks implements a branching or looping function, as will be
   apparent to those skilled in the art. In addition, the RECEIVE state 300 includes rectangle
   shaped blocks 310, 330, and 350. These blocks perform a specific function and the protocol then
   proceeds to the next block in the flowchart.
 0 A node in RECEIVE state 300 is responsible for sending out a beacon to alert its neighbors that
   it has entered an active state, and then listening for a neighboring transmitter to begin
   transmission of a packet. The beacon sent by the receiver is a Ready-To-Receive (RTR) message
   350. This packet is a short packet containing the address of the receiver. Optional extensions
   include adding information relating to queue length or battery state. Upon waking into the
 5 RECEIVE state 300, the node performs a clear channel assessment (CCA) 340 prior to sending
   out the RTR, to avoid collisions with ongoing packet transmissions. If the medium is clear, the
   node sends the RTR beacon 350, and enters a listening state 360. The listening state lasts either
   until a packet transmission is detected 380, or until enough time has elapsed 370, given by the
   maximum back-off interval of a transmitter. This guarantees that if a transmitter detects the RTR,
 0 it had enough time to reply to it. Upon detection of a packet, the node receives the packet 310
   and sends an acknowledgement (ACK) 330 if it was received correctly 320 and it was intended
   for that receiver.
            TRANSMIT State 400
   The TRANSMIT state 400 includes a number of diamond-shaped iterative constructs (branching
25 or looping) as well as a number of rectangle-shaped functions that take a specific action and then
   proceed to the next block. The TRANSMIT state 400 includes a pre-RTR state 420 and a post
   RTR state 430. The decision block 410 determines whether the node is in range of the server and
   branches to either the pre-RTR state 420 or the post-RTR state 430. If the node is in range of the
                                                       7

    server 100 (Figure 1), then it does not need to enter the pre-RTR state 420 and instead proceeds
    from block 410 directly to the post-RTR state 430 and block 432. On the other hand, if the node
    is not in range of the server, then it proceeds from block 410 to the pre-RTR state 420 at block
    422. In addition to block 410, the TRANSMIT state 400 includes iterative blocks 423, 425, 426,
 5  433, and 435, as well as functional blocks 422, 424, 427, 432, 434, 436, and 437.
    In the TRANSMIT state 400, the node waits until it detects that a neighboring node is awake,
    and attempts to forward a packet to that node. Upon waking, the node enters a low power
    listening state 424, and waits for an RTR beacon sent by a receiver, as indicated at reference
    numeral 425. Upon receiving an RTR beacon, if the transmitter has a packet to send to that
 0  receiver (reference numeral 426), as determined through the opportunistic relaying scheme
    described below, the transmitter waits a number of slots equal to its backoff counter (reference
    numeral 432), performs a CCA 433, and then sends the packet 434 if the channel is idle. Upon a
    successful transmission, determined by the reception of an acknowledge signal (ACK)
    immediately after transmission (reference numeral 435), the transmitter resets the backoff
 5  exponent and the backoff counter. If no ACK is received, the backoff exponent is increased, and
    the backoff counter is reset (reference numeral 436). EHSN-MAC uses a similar exponential
    backoff procedure as CSMA/CA (CSMA with Collision Avoidance). The backoff procedure is
    intended to solve contention amongst transmitters when an RTR is broadcasted and multiple
    transmitters have packets to send. By increasing the backoff exponent upon collisions, the
 .0 backoff counter adapts to the number of nodes currently contending for the channel. However,
    using the CSMA backoff procedure without RTR beaconing leads to a starvation of sensors far
    from the server.
    Figure 4 is an example timing diagram for two nodes. In this example, darker shaded boxes refer
    to transmissions and the lighter shaded boxes refer to receptions. Assume that we have two
25  nodes, node X and node Y. The bottom timeline corresponds to node X and the top timeline
    corresponds to node Y. The first thing to happen is that node Y wakes up, and this is followed by
    node X waking up and transmitting an RTR beacon. The RTR beacon from node X is received
    by node Y, and then node Y transmits a data packet. As shown, node Y delayed its transmission
    by the predefined transmit backoff time. The data packet from node Y is received by node X and
30  then node X transmits an acknowledgment (ACK) signal. After receiving the ACK signal, node
                                                       8

   Y goes back to sleep. Node X listens for other transmissions before going back to sleep, as
   shown.
            Opportunistic Relaying Protocol
   In multi-hop topologies, a routing protocol is required to address EHSN-specific challenges.
 5 Traditionally, packets are routed through a topology by calculating the shortest or least-cost fixed
   path between each source and destination. While shortest-path routing has been proposed for
   powered networks, in the sensor network environment, any fixed-path routing algorithm suffers
   from poor performance, because the energy resources are depleted over the planned route, while
   the rest of the network contains unused resources.
 0 The disclosed opportunistic relaying protocol works by opportunistically selecting a next-hop
   neighbor based on which neighbor has sufficient energy to receive a packet. As part of the EHSN
   MAC protocol, neighboring nodes send an RTR beacon when they wake from a SLEEP state.
   When a node receives the RTR beacon from a neighbor, it determines if forwarding a packet to
   that neighbor would move the packet physically closer to the destination. To utilize the protocol,
 5 it is assumed that each node is aware of the physical topology of the sensor network, a
   reasonable assumption when considering a static network deployment. Thus, based on the
   received RTR beacons, a node forwards a packet to the first node to send an RTR that is closer to
   the destination. This opportunistic relay selection prevents a node for waiting on a sleeping relay,
   while not requiring any overhead on top of the beaconing process of the EHSN MAC protocol.
 0 By opportunistically selecting the relay, less time is required to find a non-sleeping node to
   which to transmit.
   The opportunistic relaying protocol assumes a fixed transmission power, chosen according to a
   power analysis. If a node is in transmission range of the server, it should forward packets directly
   to the server, since power cannot be reduced by sending to an additional relay. However, the
25 fixed transmission range should be selected to maximize the performance. Additionally, nodes
   transmit/relay packets in the order in which they are generated, rather than the standard first-in
   first-out (FIFO) order at each queue. This allows for nodes far from the server to maintain a fair
   allocation of networking resources. For measurement applications, additional queueing
   mechanisms can be implemented to drop older measurements in favor of fresh measurements.
                                                     9

           Conclusion
   The EHSN communication protocol described herein can provide significant value in many
   domains. Sensing and health monitoring are critical components of aircraft and factory
   operations and efficiency. EHSN networking technology enables a larger application domain for
 5 sensor deployments, and provides positive value as follows.
   The EHSN networking technology provides a cost reduction through simplification of sensor
   complexity: Sensor systems no longer require power sources, which have considerations for cost,
   maintenance, spares, safety, etc. Power is a significant system operational and lifecycle element
   and logistics item that needs to be addressed. Not so with EHSN implementations.
 0 Also, the EHSN networking technology provides Sensor Deployment Scale through reduced
   SWAP: Existing sensor platforms are generally maxed out in terms of Size, Weight, and Power,
   and any SWAP savings are a big value discriminator because it creates opportunities for
   additional capabilities to be deployed if needed.
   Further, the EHSN networking technology provides Mission Endurance: Nowadays, depleted
 5 power to sensors equates to no mission capability. The ability to operate and perform the mission
   in austere environments (e.g., no power) is another significant value discriminator. For example,
   soldiers may be equipped with sensors and a typical carry kit (including all their equipment)
   would be on the order of 100 to 120 lbs., a significant portion of which include battery packs.
   EHSN technology could be used to reduce this battery requirement.
20 Different examples of the apparatuses and methods disclosed herein include a variety of
   components, features, and functionalities. It should be understood that the various examples of
   the apparatuses and methods disclosed herein may include any of the components, features, and
   functionalities of any of the other examples of the apparatuses and methods disclosed herein in
   any combination, and all of such possibilities are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the
25 present disclosure. Moreover, many modifications of the examples set forth herein will come to
   mind to one skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains having the benefit of the
   teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to
   be understood that the present disclosure is not to be limited to the specific examples presented
                                                     10

  and that modifications and other examples are intended to be included within the scope of the
  appended claims. Moreover, although the foregoing description and the associated drawings
  describe examples of the present disclosure in the context of certain illustrative combinations of
  elements and/or functions, it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements
5 and/or functions may be provided by alternative implementations without departing from the
  scope of the appended claims.
                                                  11

I claim:
1.       An energy harvesting sensor network, comprising:
         a plurality of energy harvesting sensors operating as nodes, wherein each of said energy
harvesting sensors is configured to operate in accordance with a predefined communication
protocol; and
         a server configured to wirelessly communicate with the energy harvesting sensors;
         wherein the predefined communication protocol includes a RECEIVE state in which a
node transmits a ready to receive (RTR) beacon indicating to other nodes that the node is awake
and has sufficient energy to receive and retransmit a data packet.
2.       The energy harvesting sensor network of claim 1, wherein the predefined communication
protocol further includes a SLEEP state and a TRANSMIT state.
3.       The energy harvesting sensor network of claim 2, wherein an energy harvesting sensor of
the plurality of energy harvesting sensors remains in the SLEEP state until the energy harvesting
sensor has harvested a predetermined threshold of energy.
4.       The energy harvesting sensor network of claim 3, wherein, upon harvesting the
predetermined threshold of energy, the energy harvesting sensor enters one of the TRANSMIT
state or the RECEIVE state based on a non-deterministic function of a local network state.
5.       The energy harvesting sensor network of claim 4, wherein the non-deterministic function
determines a mode of operation based on the channel state, a traffic backlog, a local topology, or
energy characteristics.
6.       The energy harvesting sensor network of any one of claims 4 or 5, wherein the energy
harvesting sensor, while in the RECEIVE state, broadcasts an RTR beacon to a plurality of
sensors indicating that the energy harvesting sensor is ready to receive the data packet; and upon
receiving data from another sensor, queues this data for transmission toward the server.
7.       The energy harvesting sensor network of claim 6, wherein the energy harvesting sensor,
while in the TRANSMIT state, waits to receive an RTR beacon from a potential relay node,
wherein potential relay nodes are determined by an opportunistic routing scheme;
                                                  12

        if the energy harvesting sensor does not detect any transmissions, it transmits the packet
to the relay node as determined by the opportunistic relay scheme; and
        if the energy harvesting sensor detects another transmission, it delays transmission until
the currently active transmissions have completed.
8.      The energy harvesting sensor network of any one of the preceding claims, wherein each
node routes packets using one or more received RTR beacons.
9.      The energy harvesting sensor network of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
predefined communication protocol comprises a media access control (MAC) protocol.
10.     An energy harvesting node, comprising:
        an energy harvesting device;
        an energy storage device coupled to the energy harvesting device;
        a microcontroller; and
        a wireless transceiver coupled to the microcontroller;
        wherein the microcontroller and wireless transceiver are powered by the energy storage
device; and
        wherein the microcontroller is configured to operate the energy harvesting node in
accordance with a predefined communication protocol in which the transceiver transmits a ready
to receive (RTR) beacon indicating that the node is awake and has sufficient energy to receive a
data packet from another node and to retransmit the data packet.
 11.    The energy harvesting node of claim 10, wherein the predefined communication protocol
further includes a SLEEP state and a TRANSMIT state.
 12.    The energy harvesting node of claim 11, wherein the energy harvesting node is
configured to remain in the SLEEP state until a predetermined threshold of energy has been
harvested.
13.     The energy harvesting node of claim 12, wherein, upon harvesting the predetermined
threshold of energy, the energy harvesting node enters one of the TRANSMIT state or a
RECEIVE state based on a non-deterministic function of a local network state.
                                                 13

14.     The energy harvesting node of claim 13, wherein the non-deterministic function
comprises one or more of a channel state, traffic backlog, local topology, or energy
characteristics.
 15,    The energy harvesting node of any one of claims 13 or 14, wherein the energy harvesting
node in the RECEIVE state broadcasts an RTR beacon to a plurality of sensors indicating that
the energy harvesting sensor is ready to receive the data packet; and upon receiving data from
another sensor, queues this data for transmission toward the server.
16.     The energy harvesting node of claim 15, wherein the energy harvesting node, while in the
TRANSMIT state, waits to receive an RTR beacon from a potential relay node determined by an
opportunistic routing scheme;
        if the energy harvesting sensor does not detect any transmissions, it transmits the packet
to the relay node as determined by the opportunistic relay scheme; and
        if the energy harvesting sensor detects another transmission, it delays transmission until
the currently active transmissions have completed.
17.     The energy harvesting node of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the energy harvesting
node routes packets using one or more received RTR beacons to infer information about the
energy status of neighboring nodes.
 18.    The energy harvesting node of any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein the predefined
communication protocol comprises a media access control (MAC) protocol.
19.     The energy harvesting node of any one of claims 10 to 18, further comprising a sensor.
20.     A method employed by a first energy harvesting node in a network including a plurality
of nodes and a server configured to wirelessly communicate with the nodes, comprising:
        remaining in a SLEEP state until a predetermined threshold of energy has been harvested;
        upon harvesting the predetermined threshold of energy, entering a TRANSMIT state or a
RECEIVE state based on a non-deterministic function;
        in the RECEIVE state,
                 transmitting a ready-to-receive (RTR) beacon indicating that the energy
        harvesting node is ready to receive data; and
                                                  14

        receiving data from a second node;
in the TRANSMIT state:
        receiving an RTR beacon from a node;
        detecting any ongoing transmissions;
        transmitting data if there are no ongoing transmissions; and
        performing a backoff mechanism if another node is transmitting to delay
transmission until a channel is free.
                                           15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
