ABSTRACT
An elevated vehicle ramp assembly including a support frame and at least a pair of ramps
provided on the support frame, each ramp having a first angled ramp portion, a first substantially
horizontal portion, a second angled ramp portion and a second substantially horizontal portion
spaced from the first substantially horizontal portion, the pair of ramps spaced apart and
substantially parallel to one another.

                                                      I
AN ELEVATED VEHICLE RAMP ASSEMBLY
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        The present invention relates generally to vehicle cleaning or service equipment and
particularly for a vehicle ramp assembly allowing a user to park a vehicle in an elevated position
safely providing accessibility to the underside of the vehicle.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]        A variety of vehicle ramps are available to allow a user to elevate some or all of a
vehicle. In a simple form, a pair of ramps are provided one for each side of the vehicle allowing
a user to drive the front r rear of the vehicle, that is either the front wheels or the rear wheels,
onto the ramps to elevate the front or rear of a vehicle.
[0003]        In a more advanced form, a larger structure can be provided in a ramp configuration
to allow a user to drive the vehicle wholly onto the ramp. This will typically elevate either the
front or rear of the vehicle to a larger extent as the vehicle is normally parked on the ramp and
held there using the vehicle brakes.
[0004]        In a further form, a substantially horizontal platform is provided with one or more
ramps to drive the vehicle up the ramp and onto the platform. This configuration allows the
vehicle to be parked in a more or less horizontal position elevated above the ground.
[0005]        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[00061        The present invention is directed to an elevated vehicle ramp assembly, which may at
least partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the
consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[00071        With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in an
elevated vehicle ramp assembly including a support frame and at least a pair of ramps provided
on the support frame, each ramp having a first angled ramp portion, a first substantially
horizontal portion, a second angled ramp portion and a second substantially horizontal portion
spaced from the first substantially horizontal portion, the pair of ramps spaced apart and

substantially parallel to one another.
[00081       In a preferred form, the elevated vehicle ramp assembly is large enough to have a
walkway on both lateral sides thereof, outside the ramps. The elevated vehicle ramp assembly of
the present invention preferably has a walkway/platform at an upper end of the ramps, extending
transversely across the support frame, typically laterally outside the ramps allowing an operator
to walk completely around the ramp assembly and any vehicle which is parked thereon.
[0009]       The elevated vehicle ramp assembly of the present invention is typically designed
such that a vehicle can be parked on the first substantially horizontal portion and the second
substantially horizontal portion of each of the ramps such that the entire vehicle is off the ground
and on the ramps. It is preferred that the vehicle will be elevated at an angle. In this position, the
vehicle can be parked on the ramps with the front wheels of the vehicle on one of the
substantially horizontal portions and the rear wheels of the vehicle on the other of the
substantially horizontal portions. This allows the vehicle to be parked in an elevated position in a
stable configuration with the front and rear wheels of the vehicle on respective horizontal
portions.
[0010]       The elevated vehicle ramp assembly is preferably sufficiently robust to carry the
entire weight of the vehicle. The elevator vehicle ramp assembly is typically manufactured of a
number of metal members. It is preferred that the position and orientation of the vehicle when
parked on the elevated vehicle ramp assembly of the present invention will allow an operator to
more easily inspect the vehicle and/or clean the vehicle.
[0011]       The elevated vehicle ramp assembly of the present invention includes a support
frame. As mentioned, the support frame will typically be manufactured from a number of
members, typically metal members attached relative to one another to form a support frame to
carry the pair of ramps and/or any walkways or platforms provided. It is preferred that the
support frame be open in order to allow access beneath the support frame if necessary.
[0012]       The support frame will normally be configured with a substantially planar base plane
with a number of members attached together to form an open base in a common plane. One or
more upright members will normally be provided relative to the planar base plane. The upright
members will normally have different heights in order to support the different portions of the
ramps and/or walkways. Normally, the uprights provided at the rear of the ramp assembly will be
taller than those provided at the forward or entry end of the ramp assembly.

                                                   -Y
[00131       In a particularly preferred configuration, the support frame will preferably be a two
tier frame with a taller, rear section and a lower, forward section.
[0014]       The lower forward section is normally at the entry side of the ramp assembly, that is,
the side from which the vehicle will enter the ramp assembly.
[0015]       The support frame will generally be formed from a pair of lateral frame assemblies,
one on either lateral side of the ramp assembly with the lateral frame assemblies connected
together using one or more internal tie members to maintain the lateral frame assemblies in a
spaced apart configuration, allow access between the frame assemblies but to also maintain the
connection between the lateral frame assemblies. Preferably, the frame assemblies will be
connected to one another at the rear end of the assembly, by the preferred walkway or platform.
[00161       Each of the lateral frame assemblies preferably supports a ramp relative thereto. Each
of the lateral frame assemblies also preferably supports a laterally extending walkway/access
portion, preferably substantially parallel to the ramps as well as supporting either end of the
preferred rear walkway or platform.
[00171       Each lateral assembly includes a rectangular rear, tall section with a lesser height,
rectangular intermediate section with angled sections linking the taller rear section with the
intermediate section and the intermediate section with the ground at a forward end of the
assembly.
[00181       Each lateral frame assembly is preferably formed from a number of upright members
extending from the open frame provided in the planar base but the upright members may be
configured differently between the outside of the lateral frame assembly and an inner side of the
lateral frame assembly. For example, the outer side of each lateral frame assembly is preferably
associated with a walkway or access portion. The inner side of each lateral frame assembly will
normally support the portions of the ramp. The ramp portions are preferably formed from a pair
of spaced apart substantially parallel in elongate side rails with one or more cross members or
assemblies between the side rails. In a preferred configuration, each of the side rails is supported
directly by an upright member of the respective lateral frame assembly.
[0019]       Typically, the stairs are provided relative to the angled section of each lateral frame
assembly. The stairs may coincide with but preferably will be offset from the angled ramp
portions. In a preferred embodiment, the intermediate section of each lateral assembly will
typically be adjacent to an angled portion of a ramp with at least one set of stairs being located

                                                   -r
adjacent to the second angled ramp portion and an upper horizontal walkway portion located
adjacent to the upper horizontal portion of each ramp.
[0020]       The upper horizontal walkway is preferably associated with the transversely
extending walkway or platform extending at the top or rear of each of the ramps. Preferably, the
upper horizontal walkway is at the same level as the transversely extending walkway platform
allowing an operator to walk around the rearward side of the ramp assembly.
[0021]       In a preferred form, an end stop assembly is provided at an upper end of the ramps in
order to separate the end of the ramps from the preferred transversely extending walkway or
platform. The end stop assembly preferably includes at least one transversely extending member.
The at least one transversely extending member is preferably provided at an elevated level above
the end of the ramp. Preferably, the at least one transversely extending member extends
substantially perpendicularly to the ramps. Preferably, a pair of substantially vertical members
are provided with the at least one transversely extending member provided at an upper end of the
vertical members. Bracing may be provided between the vertical members and/or transversely
extending member and the support frame ramps.
[0022]       Each of the walkways or platforms will preferably have a substantially planar
member such as check a plate or a great or grill or similar to allow liquid for example rain to
drain through. Preferably, each of the walkways and/or platforms will have a lateral upstand
about an outer edge of the walkway or platform to form kick plates or the like. The kick plates
may be provided relative to the stairs.
[0023]       A handrail assembly will preferably extend about the lateral side edges or perimeter
of the ramp assembly in particular, the walkway/platforms on the lateral side and the transversely
extending rear platform where provided. The orientation of the handrail will typically correspond
to the portion of the walkway or platform or stairs relative to which the handrail is provided with
the stairs having angled portion is and the platform is having substantially planar portions. The
platforms and/or walkways may be formed from a number of planar floor portions which are
located relative to the support frame. The planar floor portions may be provided in a separated
configuration or edges of the planar floor portions may abut one another.
[0024]       The elevated vehicle ramp assembly of the present invention includes at least a pair
of ramps provided on the support frame, each ramp having a first angled ramp portion, a first
substantially horizontal portion, a second angled ramp portion and a second substantially
horizontal portion spaced from the first substantially horizontal portion, the pair of ramps spaced

apart and substantially parallel to one another.
[0025]       The first substantially horizontal portion and the second substantially horizontal
portion are preferably at different heights, with the first substantially horizontal portion
preferably being positioned towards the lower, entry end of the ramp and the second substantially
horizontal portion being a higher portion positioned relative to the rear of the ramp.
[0026]       The first angled ramp portion and the second angled ramp portion may be provided at
the same angle as one another or at different angles. Typically, the first angled ramp portion will
be provided at the lower, entry end of each ramp and the second angled ramp portion will
preferably be provided between the first substantially horizontal portion and the second
substantially horizontal portion. Normally, the first angled ramp portion will be shorter than the
second angled ramp portion which will be longer.
[00271       Each of the ramps will typically be formed with a pair of spaced apart, substantially
parallel side rails and at least one cross member or assembly extending their between. The cross
member may be an open weave cross member such as a grill or grate. Alternatively, a plurality
of individual cross members can be provided spaced over the length of the side rails.
[0028]       Each side rail will typically be substantially L-shaped having a substantially
horizontal portion and a substantially vertical portion preferably at right angles to the
substantially horizontal portion. The overall shape of the ramp will preferably be defined by the
configuration of the side rails and therefore, the side rails will typically have sections which
correspond to the portions of the ramp. Each side rail can be formed from a unitary rail which is
bent to shape or alternatively, a number of rail sections can be provided which are attached
together or relative to one another.
[0029]       The first angled portion of the ramp will typically extend from ground level to the
first substantially horizontal portion. The entry end of the first angled portion will normally be
substantially coplanar with the base plane of the support frame. The entry end of the first angled
ramp portion will typically extend further forwardly then the entry side of the support frame.
[0030]       The first horizontal ramp portion will typically be a shorter length portion which
preferably starts forwardly of the forward end of the support frame and ends within the support
frame. In a preferred embodiment, a substantially vertical support frame member will be
provided approximately midway along the length of the first horizontal ramp portion, typically
directly supporting each of the side rails.

                                                    V
[00311       The second angled ramp portion will preferably extend from an inner end of the first
horizontal ramp portion to a level approximately equal to the upper deck of the ramp assembly.
The second horizontal ramp portion will typically extend a short distance rearwardly, typically
level with the upper deck of the ramp assembly.
[0032]       In a preferred embodiment, the first horizontal portion and the second horizontal
portion need only be sufficiently large to receive a vehicle wheel thereon. It is preferred that the
length of the second angled ramp portion will typically define the length of the wheelbase of
vehicles that can use the ramp. For example, if the second angled ramp portion is too short or too
long, then the vehicle's front and rear wheels will not be properly received on the respective
horizontal ramp portions. There will be some leeway in the length of the second angled ramp
portion in that it will be able to accept a range of vehicles with a wheelbase which is
approximately equal to the length of the second angled ramp portion.
[00331       Each of the ramps will typically be provided with a plurality of individual cross
members extending between the side rails. The individual cross members may have any cross
sectional shape but will typically be hollow with the length of the individual cross members
defining the width of the ramps. Normally, the individual cross members will be received
between the substantially vertical portions of the side rails with an outer portion or end of each of
the cross members resting on the substantially horizontal portions of the spaced apart side rails of
each ramp. Preferably, the cross members will be attached, typically permanently to both side
rails to form the ramp.
[0034]       The ramps are provided spaced from one another and again, the spacing between the
pair of ramps will define the overall width of the vehicle which can use the ramp assembly of the
present invention. Typically, at least one, and normally a number of internal tie members may be
provided extending between the ramps but preferably, the tie members will extend between the
lateral assemblies of the support frame with the ramps mounted securely to a respective lateral
assembly.
[00351       Normally, the members of the support frame and the tie members will be box shaped
in cross section and preferably hollow to provide the required strength but to reduce weight.
[00361       The ramp assembly of the present invention can be fixed in place but will normally
have a significant weight and therefore, may not require fixing provided is provided on a level
surface.

[00371        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[00381        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00391        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0040]        Figure 1 is an isometric view of an elevated vehicle ramp assembly according to a
preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0041]        Figure 2 is an isometric view of the elevated vehicle ramp assembly illustrated in
Figure 1 from the reverse side.
[0042]        Figure 3 is a photograph showing the elevated vehicle ramp assembly of a preferred
embodiment with a vehicle located thereon.
[00431        Figure 4 is an alternate view of the configuration illustrated in Figure 3.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0044]        According to a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, an
elevated vehicle ramp assembly 10 is provided.
[0045]        The elevated vehicle ramp assembly 10 illustrated in the Figures includes a support
frame 11 and at least a pair of ramps A and B provided on the support frame 11, each ramp
having a first angled ramp portion 12, a first substantially horizontal portion 13, a second angled
ramp portion 14 and a second substantially horizontal portion 15 spaced from the first
substantially horizontal portion 13, the pair of ramps spaced apart and substantially parallel to
one another.
[0046]        In the accompanying Figures, the following Reference Letters are used:

A                  Left wheel ramp
B                  Right wheel ramp
C                  Internal Platform section
D-F                Internal ties
GR1 - GR7          Grates
[0047]       As illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, the elevated vehicle ramp assembly 10 is large
enough to have a walkway on both lateral sides thereof, outside the ramps A, B. The elevated
vehicle ramp assembly 10 illustrated has a transversely extending walkway/platform 16 at an
upper end of the ramps A, B, extending transversely across the support frame 11, typically
laterally outside the ramps A, B, allowing an operator to walk completely around the ramp
assembly 10 and any vehicle which is parked thereon, as shown in Figures 3 and 4.
[0048]       The elevated vehicle ramp assembly of the present invention is typically designed
such that a vehicle can be parked on the first substantially horizontal portion and the second
substantially horizontal portion of each of the ramps such that the entire vehicle is off the ground
and on the ramps. It is preferred that the vehicle will be elevated at an angle. In this position, the
vehicle is preferably parked on the ramps with the front wheels of the vehicle on one of the
substantially horizontal portions and the rear wheels of the vehicle on the other of the
substantially horizontal portions. This allows the vehicle to be parked in an elevated position in a
stable configuration with the front and rear wheels of the vehicle on respective horizontal
portions. This is illustrated in Figures 3 and 4
[0049]       The support frame 11 of the illustrated embodiment is manufactured from a number
of members, typically metal members attached relative to one another to form a support frame to
carry the pair of ramps A, B, and/or any walkways or platform is provided. It is preferred that the
support frame 11 be open in order to allow access beneath the support frame 11 if necessary.
[0050]       The support frame 11 is configured with a substantially planar base plane with a
number of members attached together to form an open base in a common plane. One or more
upright members will normally be provided relative to the planar base plane. The upright
members will normally have different heights in order to support the different portions of the
ramps and/or walkways. As illustrated, the rear uprights provided at the rear of the ramp

assembly are taller than those provided at the forward or entry end of the ramp assembly 10.
[0051]        In the preferred configuration illustrated, the support frame 11 is a two-tier frame
with a taller, rear section and a lower, forward section. The lower forward section is normally at
the entry side of the ramp assembly, that is, the side from which the vehicle will enter the ramp
assembly. The entry end of the assembly 10 is illustrated with the large arrow.
[0052]        The support frame 11 is formed from a pair of lateral frame assemblies 17, one on
either lateral side of the ramp assembly with the lateral frame assemblies connected together
using one or more internal tie members D, E, F to maintain the lateral frame assemblies 17 in a
spaced apart configuration, allow access between the frame assemblies 17 but to also maintain
the connection between the lateral frame assemblies 17. Preferably, the frame assemblies 17 will
be connected to one another at the rear end of the assembly, by the preferred walkway or
platform 16.
[00531        Each of the lateral frame assemblies 17 preferably supports a ramp A, B relative
thereto. Each of the lateral frame assemblies 17 also preferably supports a laterally extending
walkway/access portion 19 as well as supporting either end of the preferred transverse rear
walkway or platform 16.
[0054]        Each lateral assembly 17 includes a rectangular rear, tall section 20 with a lesser
height, rectangular intermediate section 21 with angled sections 22 linking the taller rear section
20 with the intermediate section 21 and the intermediate section 21 with the ground at a forward
end of the assembly 10.
[0055]        Each lateral frame assembly 17 is formed from a number of upright members
extending from the open frame provided in the planar base but the upright members may be
configured differently between the outside of the lateral frame assembly 17 and an inner side of
the lateral frame assembly 17. For example, the outer side of each lateral frame assembly 17 is
preferably associated with a walkway or access portion 19. The inner side of each lateral frame
assembly 17 supports the portions of the ramps A, B. The ramp portions are preferably formed
from a pair of spaced apart substantially parallel in elongate side rails 23 with a plurality of cross
members 24 between the side rails 23. In the illustrated preferred configuration, each of the side
rails 23 is supported directly by an upright member of the respective lateral frame assembly 17.
[0056]        Typically, stairs are provided relative to the angled section 22 of each lateral frame
assembly 17. The stairs may coincide with but preferably will be offset from the angled ramp

                                                   IU
portions. In a preferred embodiment, the intermediate section GR6, GR7 of each lateral assembly
is adjacent to an angled portion of a ramp with a set of stairs being located adjacent to the second
angled ramp portion and an upper horizontal walkway portion GR2, GR3 located adjacent to the
upper horizontal portion of each ramp A, B.
[00571        The upper horizontal walkway GR2, GR3 is associated with the transversely
extending walkway or platform 16 extending at the top or rear of each of the ramps A, B.
Preferably, the upper horizontal walkway GR2, GR3 is at the same level as the transversely
extending walkway platform 16 allowing an operator to walk around the rearward side of the
ramp assembly 10.
[00581        In a preferred form, an end stop assembly G including a transversely extending
member 25 is provided at an upper end of the ramps A, B in order to separate the end of the
ramps A, B from the transversely extending walkway or platform 16. The transversely extending
member 25 is provided at an elevated level above the end of the ramps A, B and extends
substantially perpendicularly to the ramps. Preferably, a pair of substantially vertical members 26
are provided with the transversely extending member 25 provided at an upper end of the vertical
members 26. Bracing is provided between the vertical members 26 and/or transversely extending
member 25 and the ramps A, B.
[0059]        Each of the walkways or platforms will preferably have a substantially planar
member such as checkerplate or a grate or grill or similar to allow liquid for example, rain to
drain through. Preferably, each of the walkways and/or platforms has a lateral upstand about an
outer edge of the walkway or platform to form a kickplate. A kickplate may be provided relative
to the stairs as well.
[0060]        A handrail assembly 27 extends about the lateral side edges or perimeter of the ramp
assembly 10 in particular, the walkway/platforms 19 on the lateral side and the transversely
extending rear platform 16. The orientation of the handrail 27 will typically correspond to the
portion of the walkway or platform or stairs relative to which the handrail is provided with the
stairs having angled portions of handrail and the platforms having substantially planar portions of
handrail. The platforms and/or walkways may be formed from a number of planar floor portions
which are located relative to the support frame 11. The planar floor portions may be provided in
a separated configuration or edges of the planar floor portions may abut one another.
[0061]        The first substantially horizontal portion 13 and the second substantially horizontal
portion 15 are provided at different heights, with the first substantially horizontal portion 13

                                                   I I
being positioned towards the lower, entry end of the ramp and the second substantially horizontal
portion 15 being a higher portion positioned relative to the rear of the ramps A, B.
[0062]       The first angled ramp portion 12 and the second angled ramp portion 14 are provided
at the same angle as one another in Figures 1 and 2 or at different angles, such as is illustrated in
Figures 3 and 4. Typically, the first angled ramp portion 12 is provided at the lower, entry end of
each ramp and the second angled ramp portion 14 is provided between the first substantially
horizontal portion 13 and the second substantially horizontal portion 14. Normally, the first
angled ramp portion 12 will be shorter than the second angled ramp portion 14 which will be
longer.
[0063]       Each of the ramps A, B are formed with a pair of spaced apart, substantially parallel
side rails 23 and a plurality of individual cross members 24 provided spaced over the length of
the side rails 23.
[0064]       Each side rail 23 is substantially L-shaped having a substantially horizontal portion
and a substantially vertical portion at right angles to the substantially horizontal portion. The
overall shape of the ramps A, B is defined by the configuration of the side rails 23 and therefore,
the side rails 23 will typically have sections which correspond to the portions of the ramp. Each
side rail 23 can be formed from a unitary rail which is bent to shape or alternatively, a number of
rail sections can be provided which are attached together or relative to one another.
[0065]       The first angled portion 12 of the ramp extends from ground level to the first
substantially horizontal portion 13. The entry end of the first angled portion 12 is substantially
coplanar with the base plane of the support frame 11. The entry end of the first angled ramp
portion 12 will typically extend further forwardly than the entry side of the support frame 11 as
shown in Figure 1 in particular.
[0066]       The first horizontal ramp portion 13 is a shorter length portion which preferably
starts forwardly of the forward end of the support frame 11 and ends within the support frame 11.
In a preferred embodiment, a substantially vertical support frame member is provided
approximately midway along the length of the first horizontal ramp portion 13, typically directly
supporting each of the side rails 23 (as shown in Figure 1 connected by internal tie F).
[00671       The second angled ramp portion 14 will preferably extend from an inner end of the
first horizontal ramp portion 13 to a level approximately equal to the upper deck of the ramp
assembly. The second horizontal ramp portion 15 extends a short distance rearwardly, typically

                                                   I /
level with the upper deck GR4, GR5 of the ramp assembly 10.
[00681       In a preferred embodiment, the first horizontal portion 13 and the second horizontal
portion 15 need only be sufficiently large to receive a vehicle wheel thereon. It is preferred that
the length of the second angled ramp portion 14 will typically define the length of the wheelbase
of vehicles that can use the ramp assembly 10. For example, if the second angled ramp portion 14
is too short or too long, then the vehicle's front and rear wheels will not be properly received on
the respective horizontal ramp portions. There will be some leeway in the length of the second
angled ramp portion 14 in that it will be able to accept a range of vehicles with a wheelbase
which is approximately equal to the length of the second angled ramp portion 14.
[00691       Each of the ramps A, B is provided with a plurality of individual cross members 24
extending between the side rails 23. The individual cross members 24 will typically be hollow
with the length of the individual cross members 24 defining the width of the ramps A, B.
Normally, the individual cross members 24 are received between the substantially vertical
portions of the side rails 23 with an outer portion or end of each of the cross members 24 resting
on the substantially horizontal portions of the spaced apart side rails 23 of each ramp. Preferably,
the cross members 24 are attached, typically permanently, to both side rails 23 to form the ramp.
[00701       The pair of ramps A, B are provided spaced from one another and again, the spacing
between the pair of ramps A, B will define the overall width of the vehicle which can use the
ramp assembly 10. Typically, at least one, and normally a number of internal tie members D, E, F
are provided extending between the ramps but preferably, the tie members will extend between
the lateral assemblies 17 of the support frame 11 with the ramps A, B mounted securely to a
respective lateral assembly 17.
[00711       Normally, the members of the support frame and the tie members will be box shaped
in cross section and preferably hollow to provide the required strength but to reduce weight.
[0072]       The ramp assembly of the present invention can be fixed in place but will normally
have a significant weight and therefore, may not require fixing provided is provided on a level
surface.
[0073]       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0074]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'

means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00751       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of
its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1. An elevated vehicle ramp assembly including a support frame and at least a pair of ramps
   provided on the support frame, each ramp having a first angled ramp portion, a first
   substantially horizontal portion, a second angled ramp portion and a second substantially
   horizontal portion spaced from the first substantially horizontal portion, the pair of ramps
   spaced apart and substantially parallel to one another.

                                              <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                    26
                                                                          10
                                                      25
                                                                    27
                                                                     26
                              15
                                                                     16
                                                                               1/3
                                                                     11
               14
                                                           20
          13
     23                                          22
12                                      21
               19        22        Figure 1

           <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
             23   B
      24
                        23
                                      A
                                           2/3
17   26

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                3/3
 3
       Figure 4

