ABSTRACT
By designing an automated system whereby, the livestock will regularly walk through
a controlled gated system where an automatic spray of buffalo fly solution is applied
on entry, the livestock will have regular controls applied at the required rates. Test
units have proven that after regular use the livestock become accustomed to the
system and walk through at their own leisure when transiting between feed lot areas.
The system is activated by an infrared beam triggered by the livestock entering the
designed gated system and is turned off automatically once the livestock has exited
the system.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

16/11/2017
IP Application Number <removed-apn>
RESPONSE TO A FORMALITIES DIRECTION
TITLE
Buffalo Fly Automated Control
TECHNICAL FIELD
Agricultural Livestock Implement
BACKGROUND
It was identified that there was an opportunity to reduce manual labour when farmers had a need to
control buffalo fly insects on cattle. Without controlling these insect's cattle are subject to potential
loss in health as the fly attacks the animal.
SUMMARY
To address the problem that the buffalo fly presents to livestock and to eliminate the need to use
ear tags that are expensive and need to be manually attached to the ear of the livestock
approximately every 3 months an automated system has been designed. This will also eliminate the
continual need to yard cattle to manually spray a solution or attach the ear tags.
By designing an automated system whereby, the livestock will regularly walk through a controlled
gated system where an automatic spray of buffalo fly solution is applied on entry, the livestock will
have regular controls applied at the required rates. Test units have proven that after regular use the
livestock become accustomed to the system and walk through at their own leisure when transiting
between feed lot areas. The system is activated by an infrared beam triggered by the livestock
entering the designed gated system and is turned off automatically once the livestock has exited the
system.
The advantageous effects of the invention are a reduction in manual labour and the need to
regularly yard cattle which adds stress to the livestock and the loss of condition. There is also a
significant cost reduction in the procurement of ear tags that are prone to falling off the livestock
ear. And there is also a significant reduction in the exposure of the chemical application to the user if
they were to do it using a manual spray gun operated by themselves. The unit is lightweight and
easily transportable between areas.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
The buffalo fly automated control is manufactured as the primary version utilising a set of infrared
beams that when broken activate a switch that in turn activates a 12V self-primed pump that pumps
a designated buffalo fly control agent (chemical or organic) via a system of plumbed pipes to a
1,2,3,4 to unlimited number of dispersant spray nozzles for application to the livestock.
The main cage is constructed from galvanised steel with a variety of braces, brackets and clip used to
attach the electronics, pump and plumbed hardware. A mesh roof utilising a shade cloth material
which could also be a canvas or plastic variety is then attached over the sides and roof of the caged
gated system.

The length, width and height of the cage can be varied for differing applications and based on the
needs of the end user that the manufacture process can incorporate.
Parts of the entire system embodiment can be broken down to be used in partial situations where
permanent livestock yard structures and mobile livestock yard structures already exits, again at the
direction of the end user.
The main inherent design feature embodiment that the invention is based on, revolves around the
automated dispersion of a buffalo fly control product. It is based on the livestock traversing the
automated setup at their own will or as forced through by normal livestock droving procedures.

                   Editorial Note
<removed-date>
16
                    <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> 16
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn> 16
           <removed-date>

   <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                  16
             VI
Ir.V   Wi
       41,If/I'
                    /I 44

