Abstract
The invention provides, in various embodiments, systems, devices and methods relating to ex
vivo organ care. In certain embodiments, the invention relates to maintaining an organ ex-vivo
at near-physiologic conditions.

                                                   -1
                            Systems and Methods for Ex-Vivo Organ Care
   Reference to Related Applications
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
   No. <removed-apn> , which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5 Field of the Invention
           The invention generally relates to systems, methods, and devices for ex-vivo organ care.
   More particularly, in various embodiments, the invention relates to caring for an organ ex-vivo
   at physiologic or near-physiologic conditions.
   Background of the Invention
 0         Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
   general knowledge in the field.
           Current organ preservation techniques typically involve hypothermic storage of the
   organ in a chemical perfusate solution on ice. In the case of a heart, it is typically arrested, and
 5 cooled with the storage/cardioplegic solution in a hypothermic, non-functioning state. These
   techniques utilize a variety of cardioplegic solutions, none of which sufficiently protect the
   heart from myocardial damage resulting from ischemia. Such injuries are particularly
   undesirable when an organ, such as a heart, is intended to be transplanted from a donor into a
   recipient. In addition to myocardial damage resulting from ischemia, reperfusion of a heart may
20 exacerbate the myocardial injury and may cause coronary vascular endothelial and smooth
   muscle injury, which may lead to coronary vasomotor dysfunction.
           Using conventional approaches, such injuries increase as a function of the length of time
   an organ is maintained ex-vivo. For example, in the case of a heart, typically it may be
   maintained ex-vivo for only a few hours before it becomes unusable for transplantation. This
25 relatively brief time period limits the number of recipients who can be reached from a given
   donor site, thereby restricting the recipient pool for a harvested heart. Even within the few hour
   time limit, the heart may nevertheless be significantly damaged. A significant issue is that there
   may not be any apparent indication of the damage. Because of this, less-than-optimal organs

                                               - la
may be transplanted, resulting in post-transplant organ dysfunction or other injuries. Thus, it
would be desirable to develop techniques that can

        extend the time during which an organ can be preserved in a healthy state ex-vivo. Such
        techniques would reduce the risk of transplantation failure and enlarge potential donor and
       recipient pools.
                Effective preservation of an ex-vivo organ would also provide numerous other
   5   benefits. For instance, prolonged ex-vivo preservation would pennit more careful
       monitoring and functional testing of the harvested organ. This would in turn allow earlier
       detection and potential repair of defects in the harvested organ, further reducing the
       likelihood of transplantation failure. The ability to perform simple repairs on the organ
       would also allow many organs with minor defects to be saved, whereas current
  10   transplantation techniques require them to be discarded.
               In addition, more effective matching between the organ and a particular recipient
      may be achieved, further reducing the likelihood of eventual organ rejection. Current
      transplantation techniques rely mainly on matching donor and recipient blood types,
      which by itself is a relatively unreliable indicator of whether or not the organ will be
 15   rejected by the recipient. A more preferred test for organ compatibility is a Human
      Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) matching test, but current cold ischemic organ preservation
      approaches preclude the use of this test, which can often require 12 hours or more to
      complete.
              Prolonged and reliable ex-vivo organ care would also provide benefits outside the
20    context of organ transplantation. For example, a patient's body, as a whole, can typically
     tolerate much lower levels of chemo-, bio- and radiation therapy than many particular
     organs. An ex-vivo organ care system would permit an organ to be removed from the
     body and treated in isolation, reducing the risk of damage to other parts of the body.
              In view of the foregoing, improved systems, methods, and devices for caring for an
25   organ ex-vivo are needed.
     Summary of the Invention
              The invention addresses the deficiencies in the prior art by, in various
     embodiments, providing improved systems, methods and devices relating to portable ex
     vivo organ care. More particularly, according to various aspects, the invention provides
30   systems, methods and devices relating to portable ex-vivo heart care. According to one
     advancement, the heart care system of the invention maintains the heart in a beating state
     at, or near, normal physiological conditions. To this end, the system circulates an
                                                    -2-

     oxygenated, nutrient enriched perfusion fluid to the heart at or near physiological
     temperature, pressure and flow rate. According to one implementation, the system
     employs a blood product-based perlfusion fluid to more accurately mimic normal
     physiologic conditions. In alternative embodiments, the system uses a synthetic blood
  5  substitute solution, while in other embodiments, the solution may contain a blood product
     in combination with a blood substitute product.
             According to another advancement, the system of the invention can maintain a
    harvested heart in two modes of operation; a normal aortic flow mode (also referred to as
    "normal flow mode"), and a retrograde aortic flow mode (also referred to as a "retrograde
10  flow mode"). Generally, in the normal flow mode, the system circulates the perfusion
    fluid to the heart in the same manner as blood would circulate in the human body. More
    particularly, the perfusion fluid enters the heart via the left atrium and is flowed away from
    the heart via the right and left ventricles. In normal flow mode, the system pumps the
    perfusion fluid to the heart at a rate of between about 1 liter/min and about 5 liters/minute.
15  This mode is useful, for example, for performing functional testing to verify that the heart
    is defect free, both prior and subsequent to transportation to a donor location.
    Alternatively, in retrograde flow mode, the system flows the perfusion fluid into the heart
    via the aorta, through the coronary sinus, and then out of the heart via the right ventricle.
    In this mode of operation, the system reduces the flow rate of the perfusion fluid to
20  between about 300 milliliters/min and about 1 liter/min. The inventors have found that the
    retrograde flow path, along with the reduced flow rate, reduces damage to the heart during
    extended periods of ex-vivo care. Thus, according to one feature of the invention, the
    heart is transported to a donor site in retrograde flow mode.
             According to various aspects, the systems and/or devices of the invention include,
25  and/or the methods of the invention employ, one or more of: an organ chamber assembly
    for containing a heart during ex-vivo care; a reservoir for containing and optionally,
    defoaming and/or filtering a volume of perfusion fluid; a perfusion fluid pump for
    pumping/circulating perfusion fluid to and from the harvested heart; a heater assembly for
    maintaining the temperature of the perfusion fluid at or near physiological temperatures; a
30  flow mode selector valve for switching between normal and retrograde flow modes; an
    oxygenator for re-oxygenating the perfusion fluid subsequent to it being expelled by the
    heart; a nutritional subsystem for replenishing nutrients in the perfusion fluid as they are
    metabolized by the heart and for providing preservatives to the perfusion fluid to reduce,
                                                   -3-

      for example, ischemia and/or other reperfusion related injuries to the heart; a sensor
      subsystem for monitoring, for example, temperature, pressure, flow rate and/or
     oxygenation of the perfusion fluid, and/or electrical signals from the heart and/or the
     various components employed to maintain suitable flow conditions to and from the heart;
  5  an operator interface for assisting an operator in monitoring system operation and/or the
     condition of the heart, and/or for enabling the operator to set various operating parameters;
     a power subsystem for providing fault tolerant power to the organ care system; and a
     control subsystem for controlling operation of the organ care system.
              Operationally, in one practice, a heart is harvested from a donor and affixed to the
 10  organ chamber assembly by a process of cannulation. The perfusion fluid pump pumps
     perfusion fluid from a reservoir to the heater assembly. The heater assembly heats the
     perfusion fluid to or near a nornal physiological temperature. According to one
     embodiment, the heater assembly heats the perfusion fluid to between about 32" C and
     about 37* C. From the heater assembly, the perfusion fluid flows to the flow mode
15   selector valve. Initially, the flow mode selector valve is positioned for retrograde flow
    mbde to direct the perfusion fluid from the heater assembly to a first interface on the organ
     chamber assembly. Also referred to as an aorta interface or the left ventricle interface, the
    first interface is cannulated to vascular tissue of the left ventricle (e.g., an aorta stub) via a
     conduit located within the organ chamber assembly. The heart then pumps the perfusion
20  fluid out of the heart through the right ventricle via a second interface on the organ
    chamber assembly. The second interface, also referred to as a pulmonary artery interface
    or right ventricle interface, is cannulated to vascular tissue of the right ventricle (e.g., a
    pulmonary artery stub) via a conduit located within the organ chamber assembly. In
    retrograde flow mode, fluid is not pumped into or out of the left side of the heart other than
25  in the form of a small triclde of perfusion fluid, which is delivered to moisten the left
    atrium. In response to the flow mode selector valve being in the normal flow mode
    position, it directs the perfusion fluid into the left atrium of the heart via a third interface
    on the organ chamber assembly. The third interface, also referred to as a pulmonary vein
    interface or left atrium interface, is cannulated to the vascular tissue of the left atrium (e.g.,
30  a pulmonary vein stub) via a conduit located within the organ chamber assembly. The
    heart then expels the perfusion fluid through the left ventricle via the aorta interface, and
    through the right ventricle via the pulmonary artery interface.
                                                    -4-

             In both modes of operation, from the pulmonary artery interface, the perfusion
    fluid flows into the oxygenator. The oxygenator receives oxygen from an external or
    onboard gas source and applies gas (e.g., oxygen) to the perfusion fluid prior to returning it
    to the reservoir. The system may include one or more oxygen saturation sensors to
  5 measure the oxygen saturation level of the perfusion fluid to ensure that the perfusion fluid
    is maintained a't physiological oxygen levels. In the embodiments where the perfusion
    fluid is blood-product based, it contains red blood cells (i.e., oxygen carrying cells).
    Optionally, the oxygen sensors also provide a hematocrit measurement of the
    concentration of red blood cells in the perfusion fluid.
10           In both normal and retrograde flow modes, the nutritional subsystem infuses the
    perfusion fluid with a supply of maintenance solutions as the perfusion fluid flows through
    the system, and in some embodiments, while it is in the reservoir According to one
    feature, the maintenance solutions include nutrients, such as glucose. According to
    another feature, the maintenance solutions include a supply of therapeutics and/or
15  preservatives (e.g., cardio stimulants, insulin, amino acids, etc.) for reducing ischemia
    and/or other reperfusion related injuries to the heart.
             According to another practice, the perfusion fluid includes blood removed from the
    donor through a process of exsanguination during harvesting of the heart. Initially, the
    blood from the donor is loaded into the reservoir and the cannulation locations in the organ
20  chamber assembly are bypassed with a bypass conduit to enable normal mode flow of
    perfusion fluid through the system without a heart being present. Prior to cannulating the
    harvested heart, the system may be primed by circulating the exsanguinated donor blood
    through the system to heat, oxygenate and/or filter it. Nutrients, preservatives, and/or
    other therapeutics may also be provided during priming via the infusion pump of the
25  nutritional subsystem. During priming, various parameters may also be initialized and
    calibrated via the operator interface during priming. Once primed and running
    appropriately, the pump flow is reduced or cycled off, the bypass conduit is removed from
    the organ chamber assembly, and the heart is cannulated into the organ chamber assembly.
    The pump flow is then restored or increased, as the case may be. According to one
30  feature, the operator interface may be plugged into the system via a hard wired connection,
    or may be unplugged and used to wirelessly communicate with the system of the
    invention.
                                                  -5-

             According to one feature, the system includes a plurality of compliance chambers.
     The compliance chambers are essentially small inline fluid accumulators with flexible,
     resilient walls for simulating the human body's vascular compliance by aiding the system
     in more accurately mimicking blood flow in the human body, for example, by providing
  5  flow back-pressure and7or by filtering/reducing fluid pressure spikes due, for example, to
     flow rate changes. In one configuration, compliance chambers are located on either side of
     the flow mode selector valve and on the output of the perfusion fluid pump. According to
     one feature, a compliance chamber is located next to a clamp used for regulating back
     pressure seen by the aorta during normal flow mode operation.
 10          According to one implementation, the sensor subsystem includes an
     electrocardiogram (ECG) sensor for monitoring electrical signals from the heart.
     According to one embodiment, the control subsystem synronizes theof                  the
    perfusion fluid to the heart with the ECG signals. According to one feature, the ECG
     signals include an r-wave, and the control subsystem uses the r-wave to synchronize the
 15 fluid pumping with a diastolic state of the heart. According to another feature, the control
     subsystem adjusts pump stroke volume and/or pump rate in dependence on the ECG
    signals. For example, in one embodiment, the control subsystem reduces the pump stroke
    volume as heart rate increases in order to maintain blood flow. In another embodiment,
    the system reduces the pump stroke volume in response to detecting an irregular heart rate.
20  In both cases, the result is to reduce fluid volume pumped to the heart, which in turn
    reduces the likelihood of causing damage to the heart. In various embodiments, the
    sensors include perfusion fluid flow rate and/or flow pressure sensors, which provide
    feedback for controlling the perfusion fluid pump. According to one embodiment, to more
    accurately simulate normal circulation through the body, the pump of the system is a
25  pulsatile pump.
             According to one aspect of the invention, the organ chamber assembly includes a
    plurality of improved features. More particularly, in one configuration, the organ chamber
    assembly of the invention includes a housing, an outer lid and an intermediate lid. The
    housing includes a bottom and one or more walls for containing the organ. The
30  intermediate lid covers an opening to the housing for substantially enclosing the organ
    within the housing, and includes a frame and a flexible membrane suspended within the
    frame. The flexible membrane, preferably, is transparent but may be opaque, translucent,
    or substantially transparent. According to one feature, the flexible membrane includes
                                                  -6-

    sufficient excess membrane material to contact an organ contained within the chamber.
    This feature enables a medical operator to touch/examine the organ indirectly through the
   membrane while still maintaining sterility of the system and the organ. The outer lid
    opens and closes over the intermediate lid independently from the intermediate lid.
 5 Preferably, the outer lid is rigid enough to protect the organ from physical contact, indirect
    or direct,
            According to one implementation, the intermediate lid is hinged to the housing.
   The intermediate lid may also include a latch for securing the intermediate lid closed over
   the opening of the organ chamber. The outer lid may be similarly hinged and latched. In
10 some configurations, gaskets are provided for forming a fluid seal between the
   intermediate lid frame and the one or more organ chamber walls, and/or for forming a fluid
   seal between the periphery of the outer lid and the frame of the intermediate lid.
            Optionally, the organ chamber assembly includes a pad or a sac assembly sized and
   shaped for interfitting within a bottom of the housing. Preferably, the pad assembly
15 includes a pad formed from a material resilient enough to cushion the organ from
   mechanical vibrations and shocks during transport. In the case of the organ chamber
   assembly being configured to receive a heart, according to one feature, the pad of the
   invention includes a mechanism for receiving at least one electrode. The mechanism may
   include, without limitation, one or more slots, indentations, protrusions, through apertures,
20 partially through apertures, hooks, eyelets, snaps, adhesive patches, or the like. According
   to one advantage, the mechanism allows for adjustable placement of the at least one
   electrode on or in the pad to accommodate differently sized and shaped hearts. According
   to one embodiment, the pad includes a through-aperture through which an electrical lead
   of the at least one electrode may pass.
25          According to one embodiment, the pad assembly includes at least one electrode
   adjustably positioned at a location on or in the pad in such a way as to facilitate contact
   with a heart placed on the pad in the organ chamber assembly. According to one
   configuration, the at least one electrode rests on the surface of the pad and is held in place
   by the weight of the heart. In another configuration, the at least one electrode is glued to
30 the surface of the pad. The at least one electrode includes one or more sensors for
   monitoring one or more electrical signals from the heart. It may also include one or more
   defibrillator contacts for providing an electrical signal to the heart. One advantage of the
   pad/electrode configuration of the invention is that it does not require the at least one
                                                 -7-

      electrode to be permanently or temporarily sutured or otherwise mechanically connected to
     the heart. Instead, electrical connection is made by placing the heart on the one or more
      electrodes. In one configuration, the at least one electrode includes an integrated sensor
      and defibrillation contact that allows the user to monitor electrical signals from the heart
  5  and provide an electrical signal to the heart through a common electrical interface
     connection to the organ chamber assembly. According to another feature, the common
     electrical interface includes one or more electrical ports on the organ chamber assembly
     for transferring electrical signals between the at least one electrode within the chamber and
     instrumentation located external to the housing. By way of example, the ports may
 10  provide the ECG signals to an external processor and/or display, and/or may provide
     defibrillation power to the electrodes.
             Optionally, the organ chamber housing also includes a base for angling the housing
     for optimal heart function. According to one feature, the base maintains a heart contained
     within the organ chamber at an angle of between about 30" and about 600 relative to
15  horizontal.
             According to another aspect, the perfusion fluid heater assembly of the invention
    includes a plurality of improved features relating to providing a compact, solid state
    mechanism for heating the perfusion fluid. Some features of the heater assembly make it
    particularly suitable for heating blood-product based embodiments of the perfusion fluid.'
20  In one embodiment, the heater assembly of the invention includes an inlet, an outlet a
    flow channel, first and second flow channel plates and a first heater. The flow channel is
    formed between the first and second flow channel plates. The inlet flows the perfusion
    fluid into the flow channel and the outlet flows the perfusion fluid out of the heater. The
    first and second flow channel plates have substantially bioinert perfusion fluid contacting
25  surfaces for providing direct contact with the perfusion fluid flowing through the channel.
    The perfusion fluid contacting surfaces may be formed, for example, from a treatment or
    coating on a substrate or may be the substrate surface itself. The first heater is thennally
    coupled to the first flow channel plate for heating the first flow channel plate. In one
    configuration, the first heater is located on a nonperfusion fluid contacting side of the first
30  flow channel plate. According to a further embodiment, the heater assembly of the
    invention also includes a second heater thermally coupled to the second flow channel plate
    for heating the second flow channel plate to provide a more uniform temperature
    distribution in the flow channel.
                                                   -8-.

            According to one configuration, the heater assembly includes a first heater plate
    disposed between the first heater and the first flow channel plate for thermally coupling
    heat from the first heater to the first flow channel plate. According to one feature, the first
    heater plate is formed from a material, such as aluminum, that conducts and distributes
 5  heat from the heater relatively uniformly. The uniformly distributed heat of the heater
   plate is then coupled to the first channel plate, which preferably is fonned from a bioinert
    material, such as titanium, which does not necessarily provide sufficiently uniform heat
    distribution if put in direct contact with the heater. The heater assembly may also include
    a second heater plate disposed between the second heater and the second flow channel
10 plate for coupling heat from the second heater to the second flow channel plate.
            According to one embodiment, the first and/or second heaters of the invention are
   resistive heaters.   Lii one configuration, they each include a resistive heating element
   formed on a polyimide substrate. According to a further configuration, the resistive
   heating elements have a resistance of about 5 ohms. In other configurations, the resistance
15 of the heating elements ranges from about 3 ohms to about 10 ohms.
            Optionally, the heater assembly of the invention includes one or more temperature
   sensors. For example, the heater assembly may include a temperature sensor at its outlet
   for reporting the temperature of the perfusion fluid exiting the heater to the control
   subsystem. The signal from this sensor may be employed in a feedback loop to control
20 drive signals to the first and second heaters to control the temperature of the heater plates.
   Additionally, to ensure that the perfusion fluid contacting surfaces of the heater plates do
   not reach a temperature that might damage the perfusion fluid, the heater assembly may
   also include temperature sensors for reporting the temperature of the first and/or second
   heaters to the control subsystem. The signals from these sensors may also be employed in
25 a feedback loop to further control the drive signals to the first and/or second heaters to
   limit the maximum temperature of the heater plates. According to a variation of this
   embodiment, the heater assembly may include temperature sensors for reporting the
   temperature of the first and/or second heaters to the control subsystem.
            To provide improved contact between the first and/or second heaters and their
30 respective heater plates, and also between the first and/or second heater plates and their
   respective flow channel plates, the heater assembly may also include first and second
   resilient pads disposed on the respective heaters for maintaining the first heater in contact
   with the first heater plate and the second heater in contact with the second heater plate in
                                                   -9-

     response to compressive force. The compressive force may be provided, for example, by
     way of one or more heater assembly housing components. According to one feature, the
     heater assembly includes housing components formed from a polycarbonate, and weighs
     less than about 5 lb, while in other embodiments the heater assembly may weigh less than
  5  about 4 1b, less than about 3 lb, less than about 2 1b, or even less than about I lb.
    According to another feature, the heater assembly is about 6.75 inches long, about 2.75
     inches wide, and about 2.5 inches thick, all exclusive of inlet and outlet ports and
    temperature sensor assemblies. According to another feature, the heater assembly is a
    single use disposable assembly.
 10          According to one embodiment, in operation, the heater assembly uses between
    about 1 Watt and about 200 Watts of power. According to a further embodiment, the
    heater assembly of the invention is sized and shaped to transition about 2.5 liters of
    perfusion fluid flowing through the channel at a rate of between about 300 m/min and
    about 5 L/min from a temperature of less than about 30 'C to a temperature of about 37 *C
15  in less than about 25 minutes, less than about 20 minutes, less than about 15 minutes or
    even less than about 10 minutes, without causing substantial hemolysis to the blood cells
    or denaturation of any proteins that may be contained in the perfusion fluid.
             According to a further embodiment, the power subsystem of the invention provides
    a fault tolerant battery arrangement. More particularly, a plurality of batteries are
20  interlocked such that all of them may not be removed from the system at any particular
    time while the system is operating to maintain an organ. According to one feature, the
    power subsystem can switch between external power and onboard battery backup, without
    interruption of system operation. According to another feature, the power subsystem
    automatically allocates externally supplied power between powering the system, charging
25  the batteries, and charging internal batteries of the wireless operator interface.
             According to another aspect, the invention segments various subsystems and
    components of the portable organ care system into two modules; a portable multiple use
    module and a single use disposable module. According to one segmentation, the system of
    the invention generally assigns perfusion fluid contacting (and thus, blood product
30  contacting in embodiments employing a blood product perfusion fluid) components to the
    disposable module, and non perfusion-fluid-contacting (and thus, non-blood product
    contacting components) to the multiple use module. However, the disposable unit may
    also include non-blood contacting components. According to one feature, the perfusion
                                                  -10-

      fluid contacting components may be coated or bonded with heparin or other anticoagulant
      or biocompatible material to reduce the inflammatory response that may otherwise arise
     when the perfusion fluid contacts the surfaces of the components. Heparin may also be
     added to the maintenance solutions for circulation within the system.
  5           In one embodiment, the portable multiple use module includes a portable housing
     constricted on a portable chassis, and the single use disposable module includes a
     disposable chassis. To reduce weight, in one configuration, the single use module chassis
     is fonned from molded plastic such as polycarbonate, and the multiple use module chassis
     is formed from molded materials such as polycarbonate or carbon fiber composites.
10   According to one feature, the single use chassis unloaded with components weighs less
     than about 12 pounds and the loaded single use module weighs less than about 18 pounds.
     According to another feature, the multiple use housing and chassis unloaded with            .
     components weighs less than about 50 pounds, and when loaded with a multiple use
    module, batteries, gas, maintenance solutions, perfUsion fluid and a heart, weighs about 85
15  pounds or less. According to another advantage, the system of the invention including
    both single and multiple use modules, exclusive of any perfusion, nutrient, preservative or
     other fluids, batteries and oxygen supply, weighs less than about 65 pounds.
             The single use disposable chassis is sized and shaped for interlocking with the
    portable chassis of the multiple use module for electrical, mechanical, gas and fluid
20  interoperation with the multiple use module. According to one feature, the multiple and
    single use modules communicate with each other via an optical interface, which comes.
    into optical alignment automatically upon the single use disposable module being installed
    into the portable multiple use module. According to another feature, the portable multiple
    use module provides power to the single use disposable module via spring loaded
25  connections, which also automatically connect upon the single use disposable module
    being installed into the portable multiple use module. According to one feature, the optical
    interface and spring loaded connections ensure that connection between the single and
    multiple modules is not lost due to jostling, for example, during transport over rough
    terrain.
30           In various embodiments, the organ chamber assembly and the pump interface
    assembly both mount to the disposable chassis. The pump interface assembly is aligned to
    receive a pumping force from the pump driver of the perfusion fluid pump, and the
    interface assembly then translates the pumping force to the perfusion fluid to circulate the
                                                 -11--

      perfusion fluid to the organ chamber assembly. According to one embodiment, the
     perfusion fluid pumnp is a pulsatile pump and the pump interface assembly includes a
      housing, a first deformable membrane, a fluid inlet, and a fluid outlet. The housing of the
     pump interface assembly includes an interior side and an exterior side. The first
  5   defomable membrane mounts in fluid tight interconnection with the interior side of the
     housing to form a chamber between an interior side of the first deformable membrane and
     the interior side of the housing. The fluid inlet receives perfusion fluid, for example, from
     the reservoir, and provides the fluid into the chamber in response to the pump driver
     moving in a direction away from the interior side of the housing, and thus deforming the
 10  first deformable membrane in the same direction. The outlet expels the perfusion fluid out
     of the chamber, for example, to the heater assembly, in response to the pump driver
     moving in a direction toward the interior side of the housing.
              According to one configuration, the pump interface assembly includes a bracket for
     fitting over a periphery of the first deformable membrane to form the fluid fight seal
15  between the periphery of the interior side of the deformable membrane and a periphery of
     the interior side of the housing. According to a further configuration, the pump interface
     assembly includes a gasket for providing a fluid tight seal between the perfusion fluid
    pump driver and the pump interface housing.
             According to one implementation, the system also includes a flow valve positioned
20  on the input to the fluid inlet. The flow valve includes a ball valve assembly oriented to
    open and pass the perfusion fluid into the chamber through the bidirectional fluid inlet in
    response to the pump driver moving in the direction away from the interior side of the
    housing, and oriented to close and stop perfusion fluid passing back out of the chamber
    through the fluid inlet in response to the pump driver moving in the direction toward the
25  interior surface of the housing. In a further implementation, the fluid outlet also includes a
    ball valve assembly oriented to close in response to the pump driver moving in the
    direction away from the interior surface of the housing, and to open to expel the organ
    perfusion fluid through the fluid outlet in response to the pump driver moving in the
    direction toward the interior side of the housing.
30           Optionally, the perfusion fluid pump rigidly mounts to the portable multiple use
    chassis, the pump interface assembly rigidly mounts to the disposable single use chassis,
    and the system includes features for automatically forcing a fluid tight seal between the
    perfusion pump driver and the pump interface assembly in response to the single use
                                                  -12-

     disposable module being interfitted with the portable multiple use module. More
     particularly, the pump interface assembly may include one or more projections out of the
     exterior side of the interface assembly housing, sized and shaped for engaging with and
     abutting one or more surfaces on the portable multiple-use module to force/draw the
  5  interior side of the pump interface assembly housing in a direction toward the pump driver
     of the perfusion pump.
             According to one feature, the pump interface assembly includes a second
     defonnable membrane mounted adjacent to the first deformable membrane for providing a
    fault tolerant seal in case the first deformable membrane tears. According to another
10  feature, the pump interface assembly is formed at least in part from a polycarbonate or
    other molded plastic material, to reduce the weight of the single use disposable module.
             In one embodiment, the perfusion fluid reservoir mounts to the single use
    disposable chassis and is in fluid communication with the organ chamber. According to a
    further embodiment, the flow mode selector valve mounts to the disposable chassis. In
15  other embodiments, the solid state perfusion heater of the invention mounts to the
    disposable chassis. The oxygenator is preferably provided with the multiple-use module,
    but in certain embodiments may alternatively be part of the disposable module. The
    oxygen source feeding the oxygenator may be included on the multiple use portable
    chassis, may be part of the multiple-use module, or may be external to the system.
20           In one configuration, the various sensors associated with the heater assembly, the
    oxygenator and/or the perfusion fluid pump are included on the disposable single use
    module. However, this need not be the case, for example, with regard to non-perfusion
    fluid contacting sensors. According to one embodiment, the single use disposable module
    employs an oxygen sensor including in-line cuvette through which the perfusion fluid
25  passes, an optical source for directing light at the perfusion fluid passing through the
    cuvette, and an optical sensor for measuring an optical quality of the perfusion fluid
    passing through the cuvette. Preferably, the in-line cuvette seamlessly or substantially
    seaniessly attaches to a perfusion fluid flow conduit to reduce turbulence in the perfUsion
    fluid and provide one or more accurate measurements. The seamless or substantially
30  seamless configuration also reduces damage to any blood based components of the
    perfusion fluid.
             According to a further configuration, the disposable single-use module includes the
    above-mentioned plurality of inline compliance chambers located, for example, at the
                                                  -13-

      outlet of the perfusion fluid pump, and on either side of the mode select valve between the
      organ chamber and the mode select valve. In a further embodiment, the disposable single
      use module includes a plurality of ports for sampling fluids from the organ chamber
      assembly. According to one feature, the ports are interlocked such that sampling fluid
  5  from a first of the plurality of ports prohibits simultaneously sampling fluids from a second
     port of the plurality. This safety feature reduces the likelihood of mixing fluid samples
     and inadvertently opening the ports. In one embodiment, the organ chamber assembly
     includes ports for fluid interconnection with one or more of the pulmonary artery, aorta,
     and left atrium interfaces.
 10           In another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of preserving a heart ex
     vivo. The method includes placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ care
     system, pumping a perfusion fluid to the heart, the perfusion fluid being at a temperature
     of between about 25* C and about 37" C, and at a volume of between about 200 m/min
     and about 5 L/min, monitoring one or more physiologic characteristics of the heart while it
 15  is beating in the protective chamber, and adjusting a pumping characteristic based at least
     in part on the electrical characteristics to preserve the heart ex vivo.
             According to another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of preserving a
    heart ex vivo, the method including the steps of placing a heart on one or more electrodes
    in a protective chamber of a portable organ care system, pumping a perfusion fluid to the
20  heart, the perfusion fluid being at a temperature of between about 25* C and about 370 C,
    and at a volume of between about 200 m/min and about 5 L/min, and-monitoring
    electrical signals from the electrodes while pumping the perfusion fluid to the heart to
    preserve the heart ex vivo,
             In a further aspect, the invention is directed to a method of transporting a heart ex
25  vivo, including the steps of placing a heart for transplantation in a protective chamber of a
    portable organ care system, pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via an aorta of the
    heart, providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right ventricle of
    the heart, and transporting the heart in the portable organ care system from a donor site to
    a recipient site while pumping the perfusion fluid into the heart via the aorta and providing
30  the flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via the right ventricle.
             According to an additional aspect, the invention is directed to a method of
    evaluating a heart for transplantation, including the steps of placing a heart in a protective
    chamber of a portable organ care system, pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via a left
                                                    -14-

   ventricle of the heart, providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a
   right ventricle of the heart, transporting the heart via the portable organ care system from a
   donor site to a recipient site while pumping the perfusion fluid into the heart via the left
   ventricle and providing the flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via the right
 5 ventricle; prior to transplanting the heart into a recipient, operating a flow control external
   to the protective chamber to alter a flow of the perfusion fluid such that the perfusion fluid
   is pumped into the heart via a left atrium of the heart and is flowed away from the heart via
   the right ventricle and the left ventricle of the heart; and performing an evaluation of the
   heart. In certain embodiments the evaluation includes performing an HLA test on the heart
10 while the perfusion fluid is pumping.
           In another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of providing therapy to a
   heart. The method includes placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ
   care system, pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via a left ventricle of the heart,
   providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right ventricle of the
15 heart, operating a flow control external to the protective chamber to alter a flow of the
   perfusion fluid such that the perfusion fluid is pumped into the heart via a left atrium of the
   heart and is flowed away from the heart via the right ventricle and the left ventricle of the
   heart, and administering a therapeutic treatment to the heart. The treatments may include,
   for example, administering one or more of immunosuppressive treatment, chemotherapy,
20 gene therapy and irradiation therapy to the heart.
           According to another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of transplanting
   a heart. The method includes arresting a heart of a donor, explanting the heart from the
   donor, transferring the heart to an organ care system, and pumping a perfusion fluid to the
   heart in less than 30 minutes after explanting the heart from the donor (so as to reduce the
25 heart's explantation cold ischemia time), the perfusion fluid being at a temperature of
   between about 32* C and about 374 C. In certain embodiments the heart is brought to a
   temperature of between about 35* C and about 370 C in less than 10 minutes after
   transferring the heart to the organ care system.
           These and other features and advantages of the invention are described in further
30 detail below with regard to illustrative embodiments of the invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
           The following figures depict illustrative embodiments of the invention in which
   like reference numerals refer to like elements. These depicted embodiments may not be
                                                  -15-

     drawn to scale and are to be understood as illustrative of the invention and not as limiting,
     the scope of the invention instead being defined by the appended claims.
              Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a portable organ care system according to an
     illustrative embodiment of the invention.
  5           Figure 2 is a diagram depicting a harvested heart.
              Figure 3 is a conceptual diagram depicting the harvested heart of Figure 2
     interconnected with the organ care system of Figure 1 in a normal flow mode
     configuration according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
              Figure 4 is a conceptual diagram depicting the harvested heart of Figure 2
10  interconnected with the organ care system of Figure 1 in a retrograde flow mode
    configuration according to an illustrative embodiment of fhe invention.
              Figures 5A-5F show various views of an organ chamber assembly of the type
    employed in the organ care system of Figure 1 according to an illustrative embodiment of
    the invention.
15            Figures 6A-6F show various views of a perfusion heater assembly of the type
    employed in the organ care system of Figure 1 according to an illustrative embodiment of
    the invention.
              Figure 7 shows a more detailed view of an exemplary resistive heater element of
    the type employed in the heater assembly of Figures 6A-6F.
20            Figures SA-8C show various views of a perfusion fluid pump interface assembly
    according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
              Figure 9 shows a perspective view of a pump driver side of a perfusion fluid pump
    assembly of the type depicted in Figure 1, along with a bracket for mounting with the
    perfusion pump interface assembly.
25            Figure 10 shows a side view of the perfusion fluid pump interface assembly of
    Figures 8A-8C mated with the pump driver side of the perfusion fluid pump assembly of
    Figure 9.
             Figure II depicts a block diagram of an illustrative control scheme for controlling
    operation of the organ care system of Figure 1.
                                                 -16-

             Figure 12 is a block diagram of an exemplary data acquisition subsystem of the
     type that may be employed with an the illustrative organ care system of Figure 1.
             Figure 13 is a block diagram of an exemplary heating control subsystem of the type
     that may be employed for maintaining perfusion fluid temperature in the illustrative organ
  5  care system of Figure 1.
             Figure 14 is a block diagram of an exemplary power management subsystem of the
    type that may be employed in the illustrative organ care system of Figure 1.
             Figure 15 is a block diagram of an exemplary pumping control subsystem of the
    type that may be employed for controlling operation of a perfusion fluid pump assembly in
10  the illustrative organ care system of Figure 1.
             Figure 16 is a graph depicting an r-wave with which the pumping control
    subsystem of Figure 15 synchronizes according to an illustrative embodiment of the
    invention.
             Figure 17A-17J depict exemplary display screens of the type that may be employed
15  with an operator interface according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
            Figures 18A and18B show an exemplary implementation of the system of Figure 1
    according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
            Figures 19A-19C show various views of the system of Figures 18A and 18B with
    its top off and front panel open according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
20          Figure 20A is a front perspective view of the system of Figures 18A and 18 B with
    the top removed, the front panel open and the single use disposable module removed
    according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
            Figure 20B is a side view of a slot formed in a basin of the multiple use module of
    Figure 20A for engaging with a corresponding projection in the single use disposable
25  module.
            Figure 21A shows a mounting bracket for receiving and locking into place the
    single use disposable module within the multiple use module of Figure 20A.
            Figures 21B and 21C show installation of the single use disposable module into the
    multiple use module using the mounting bracket of Figure 21A according to an illustrative
30  embodiment of the invention.
                                                 -17-

              Figures 22A-22C show exemplary mechanisms for automatically making electro
     optical interconnections between the single use disposable module and the multiple use
     module during the installation of Figures 21B and 21C.
              Figures 23A-23 C show various views of the system of Figures ISA and 18B with
  5  all of the external walls removed according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
              Figure 23D is a conceptual diagram showing interconnections between the circuit
     boards of Figures 23A-23C according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
              Figures 24A-24E show various top perspective views of a single use disposable
    module according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
 10           Figures 25A-25C show various bottom perspective views of the illustrative single
    use disposable module of Figures 24A-24D.
              Figures 26A and 26B depict the operation of a flow mode selector valve according
    to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
              Figures 27A and 27B show various top views of the single use disposable module
15  of Figures 19A- 19C with the top off of illustrative organ chamber.
              Figures 28A - 28C show various views of an exemplary hematocrit and oxygen
    saturation sensor of the type employed in the illustrative single use disposable module of
    Figures 19A-19C.
             Figure 29A is a flow diagram depicting a donor-side process for removing an organ
20  from a donor and placing it into the organ care system of Figure I according to an
    illustrative embodiment of the invention.
             Figure 29B'is a diagram depicting a harvested heart with suture and cannulation
    sites according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention,
             Figure 30 is a flow diagram depicting a recipient-side process for removing an
25  organ from the organ care system of Figure 1 and transplanting it into a recipient according
    to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
             Figure 31 depicts a chart demonstrating electrolyte stability for an organ under
    going perfusion in forward mode according to an embodiment of the invention.
             Figure 32 depicts a chart demonstrating electrolyte stability for an organ under
30  going perfusion in retrograde mode according to another an embodiment of the invention.
                                                -18-

             Figure 33 depicts a chart demonstrating the arterial blood gas profile for an organ
     under going perfusion according to an embodiment of the invention.
     Illustrative Description
             As described above in summary, the invention generally provides improved
  5  approaches to ex-vivo organ care. More particularly, in various embodiments, the
     invention is directed to improved systems, methods and devices relating to maintaining an
     organ in an ex-vivo portable environment. According to one improvement, the organ
     preservation system of the invention maintains a heart beating at or near nonnal
     physiological conditions. To this end, the system circulates an oxygenated, nutrient
 10  enriched perfusion fluid to the heart at near physiological temperature, pressure and flow
     rate. According to one implementation, the system employs a perfusion fluid solution that
    more accurately mimics normal physiologic conditions. In one embodiment, the
    perfusion fluid is blood-product based. In alternative embodiments, the solution is
     synthetic blood substitute based. In other embodiments the solution may contain a blood
is  product in combination with a blood substitute product.
             According to various illustrative embodiments, the improvements of the invention
    enable an organ, such as a heart, to be maintained ex-vivo for extended periods of time, for
    example, exceeding 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24 or more hours. Such
    extended ex-vivo maintenance times expand the pool of potential recipients for donor
20  organs, making geographical distance between donors and recipients less important.
    Extended ex-vivo maintenance times of the invention also provide the time needed for
    better genetic and HLA matching between donor organs and organ recipients, increasing
    the likelihood of a favorable outcome. The ability to maintain the organ in a near
    physiologic functioning condition also enables a clini6ian to evaluate the organ's function
25  ex-vivo, further increasing the likelihood of transplantation success. In some instances, the
    extended maintenance time enables medical operators to perform repairs on donor organs
    with minor defects. According to another advantage, the increased ex-vivo organ
    maintenance times of the invention enable an organ to be removed from a patient, treated
    in isolation ex-vivo, and then put back into the body of a patient. Such treatment may
30  include, without limitation, surgical treatments, chemo-, bio-, gene and/or radiation
    therapies.
                                                  -19-

              The illustrative systems, methods and devices of the invention are described below
      in the following order. First, the components of an illustrative organ care system 100 are
      described. Second, illustrative operation of the system 100 is discussed. Third, a subset of
     the components of the system 100 are described in further detail. Fourth, illustrative
  5  control systems and methods for the system 100 are discussed. Fifth, an illustrative user
     interface is described. Sixth, mechanical features of the system 100 are discussed in
     father detail with regard to an exemplary implementation. Seventh, exemplary methods
     for employing the system 100 during an organ harvest, transport, and transplantation
     procedure are described. Eighth, illustrative perfusion, nutritional and preservative
 10  solutions suitable for use with the system 100 are presented.
              Turning to the illustrative embodiments, Figure 1 depicts a schematic diagram of a
    portable organ care system 100 according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention.
    Figure 2 shows a conceptual drawing of a heart 102, which may be preserved/maintained
     ex-vivo by the organ care system 100 of the invention. Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the
15  illustrative system 100 includes an organ chamber assembly 104 for containing the heart
     102 during ex-vivo maintenance, a reservoir 160 for holding, defoaming and filtering the
    perfusion fluid 108, portal 774 for loading perfusion fluid 108 into the reservoir 160 and a
    portal 762 for applying therapeutics to the fluid 108 contained in the reservoir 160, a
    perfusion fluid pump 106 for pumping/circulating perfusion fluid 108 to and from the
20  harvested heart 102; a heater assembly 110 for maintaining the temperature of the
    perfusion fluid 108 at oi near physiological temperatures; a flow mode selector valve 112
    for switching between normal and retrograde aortic flow modes (also referred to as
    "normal flow mode" and "retrograde flow mode," respectively); an oxygenator 114 for re
    oxygenating the perfusion fluid 108 subsequent to it being expelled by the heart 102; a
25  nutritional subsystem 115 for replenishing nutrients 116 in the perfusion fluid 108 as they
    are metabolized by the heart 102 and for providing additional preservatives 118 to the
    perfusion fluid to reduce, for example, ischemia and/or other re-perfusion related injuries
    to the heart 102. The illustrative system 100 also includes a plurality of sensors, including
    without limitation: temperature sensors 120, 122 and 124; pressure sensors 126, 128, 130
30  and 132; perfusion flow rate sensors 134, 136 and 138; a perfusion fluid oxygenation
    sensor 140; and sensor electrodes 142 and 144, and defibrillation source 143. The system
    100 further includes: various components employed for maintaining suitable flow
    conditions to and from the heart 102; an operator interface 146 for assisting an operator in
                                                 -20-

    monitoring operation of the system 100, and the condition of the heart 102, and for
    enabling the operator to select various operating parameters; a power subsystem 148 for
    providing fault tolerant power to the system 100; and a controller 150 for controlling
    operation of the organ care system 100.
 5          Referring also to Figures 3 and 4, according to the illustrative embodiment, the
    system 100 can maintain the heart 102 in two modes of operation -- a normal flow mode,
    shown in Figure 3, and a retrograde flow mode shown in Figure 4. Generally, in the
   normal flow mode of Figure 3, the system 100 circulates the perfusion fluid 108 to the
   heart 102 in the same manner as blood would circulate in the human body. More
10 particularly, referring to Figures 1-3, the perfusion fluid enters the left atrium 152 of the
   heart 102 via the pulmonary vein 168. The perfusion fluid 108 is flowed away from the
   right ventricle 154 via the pulmonary artery 164 nd.away from the left 156 ventricle via
   the aorta 158. In normal flow mode, the system 100 pumps the perfusion fluid to the heart
    102 at a near physiological rate of between about I liter/min and about 5 liters/minute.
15 This mode is useful, for example, for performing functional testing to verify that the heart
    102 is defect free, both prior and subsequent to transportation to a donor location.
            Alternatively, in retrograde flow mode, shown in Figure 4, the system 100 flows
   the perfusion fluid 108 into the heart 102 via the aorta 158, through the coronary sinus 155
   and other coronary vasculature of the heart, and out of the right ventricle 154 of the heart
20  102 via the pulmonary artery 164. As discussed in further detail below with regard to
   Figures 24A and 24B, the system 100 also provides a tricde flow 769 to the left atrium
    152 through trickle valve 768. The trickle flow is provided in an amount sufficient to
   moisten the left atrium 152 and left ventricle 156. In certain applications the triclde flow is
   less than about 5 mI/min, less than about 1 mi/min, or less than about 0.1 mI/min. In this
25 mode of operation, the system 100 reduces the flow rate of the perfusion fluid 108 to
   between about 300 milliliters/minute and about 1 liter/minute. The inventors have found
   that the retrograde flow path of Figure 4, along with the reduced flow rate, reduces damage
   to the heart 102 during extended periods of ex-vivo maintenance. Thus, according to one
   feature of the invention, the heart 102 is transported to a donor site in retrograde flow
30 mode.
            Having briefly described the normal and retrograde flow modes, the system 100
   will next be described in further detail operationally. Referring once again to Figures 1-4,
   in one practice, the heart 102 is harvested from a donor and cannulated into the organ
                                                 -21-

       chamber assembly 104. The perfusion fluid 108 is prepared for use within system 100 by
       being loaded into the reservoir 160 via portal 774 and, optionally, being treated with
       therapeutics via portal 762. The pump 106 pumps the loaded perfusion fluid 108 from a
       reservoir 160 to the heater assembly 110. The heater assembly 110 heats the perfusion
   5   fluid 108 to or near a normal physiological temperature. According to one embodiment,
      the heater assembly 110 heats the perfusion fluid to between about 320 C and about 37* C.
       The heater assembly 110 has an internal flow channel with a cross-sectional flow area that
      is approximately equal to the inside cross-sectional area of fluid conduits that carry the
      perfusion fluid 108 into and/or away from the heater assembly 110, so as to minimize
 10   disturbance of fluid flow. From the heater assembly 110, the perfusion fluid 108 flows to
      the flow mode selector valve 112.,
               Initially, the flow mode selector valve 112 is positioned in retrograde mode to
      direct the perfusion fluid 108 from the heater assembly 110 into the organ chamber
      assembly 104 via a first interface 162. Also referred to as an aorta interface or left
 15   ventricle interface, the interface 162 includes cannulation to vascular tissue of the left
      ventricle via an aperture 228b located on the organ chamber assembly 104 (as shown in
     Figures SA - 5B). As the heart 102 warms, it begins to beat which causes the heart 102 to
     pump the perfusion fluid 108 through the coronary vasculature 155 and out of the heart
      102 through the right ventricle 154 via a second interface 166. The second interface 166,
20   also referred to as a pulmonary artery interface or a right ventricle interface, includes
     cannulation to vascular tissue of the right ventricle via an aperture 228c located on the
     organ chamber assembly 104 (as shown in Figures 5A - 5B). As mentioned above, in
     retrograde flow mode, fluid is not actively pumped into or out of the left side of the heart,
     except for a relatively small trickle 769 of perfusion fluid, which is delivered to moisten
25   the left atrium 152 and left ventricle 156, as described below in reference to Figures 24A
     24E.
              In response to the flow mode selector valve 112 being placed in the normal mode
     position, it directs the perfusion fluid 108 into the left atrium 152 of the heart 102 via a
     third interface 170. The third interface 170, also referred to as a pulmonary vein interface
30   or left atrium interface, includes cannulation to vascular tissue of the left atrium 152 via an
     aperture 228a located on the organ chamber assembly 104 (as shown in Figures 5A - 5B).
     The heart 102 then expels the perfusion fluid 108 through the left ventricle 156 via the
                                                    -22-

   aorta interface 162 and through the right ventricle 154 via the pulmonary artery interface
   166.
            Each of the interfaces 162, 166 and 170 may be cannulated to the heart 102 by
   pulling vascular tissue (e.g., an aorta stub) over the end of the interface, then tying or
 5 otherwise securing the tissue to the interface. The vascular tissue is preferably a short
   segment of a blood vessel (e.g., an aorta stub 158) that remains connected to the heart 102
   after the heart 102 is severed and explanted from the donor. For example, the aorta
   interface 162 is cannulated to a small segment of the severed aorta 158 which has been
   formed by severing the aorta 158 in a location down-stream from the coronary sinus 155.
10 In certain applications, the short vessel segments may be about 5 to about 10 inches in
   length or longer. The segments may also be shorter than about 5 inches. The segments
   may be about 2 to about 4 inches in length, or about 1 to about 2 inches in length; in other
   applications the segments may be less than about '/ inch, or less than about 1/4 inch.
            Alternatively, the cannulation may occur by affixing the interface directly to the
15 applicable atrium or ventricle, as may be preferred in applications where the heart 102 is
   prepared for explantation by severing an entire blood vessel without leaving any stub
   portion of the vessel connected to the heart 102. For example, a left atrium 152
   cannulation can be formed by inserting the interface 170 directly into the left atrium 152
   and clamping the interface 170 in place, without the need to tie to any pulmonary vein 168
20 tissue.
            With continued reference to Figure 1, in both flow modes the perfusion fluid 108
   flows from the pulmonary artery interface 166 into the oxygenator 114. The oxygenator
    114 receives gas from an external or onboard source 172 through a gas regulator 174 and a
   gas flow chamber 176, which can be a pulse-width modulated solenoid valve that controls
25 gas flow, or any other gas control device that allows for precise control of gas flow rate. A
   gas pressure gauge 178 provides a visual indication of how fall the gas supply 172 is. The
   transducer 132 provides similar information to the controller 150. The controller 150 can
   regulate automatically the gas flow into the oxygenator 114 in dependence, for example,
    on the perfusion fluid oxygen content measured at the sensor 140. According to various
30 illustrative embodiments, the oxygenator 114 is a standard membrane oxygenator, such as
   the Liliput 2 manufactured by Dideco, a division of Sorin Biomedical, or the MINIMAX
   PLUSTM manufactured by Medtronic, Inc. In the illustrative embodiment, the gas includes
    an oxygen and carbon dioxide mixture. An exemplary composition of such a mixture
                                                  -23-

      contains about 85% 02, about 1% CO 2 , with the balance being N2 . Subsequent to re
      oxygenation, the oxygenator 114 returns the perfusion fluid 108 to the reservoir 160.
     According to the illustrative embodiment, the sensor 140 measures the amount of light
     absorbed or reflected by the perfusion fluid 108 when applied at a multi-wavelength to
  5  provide an optical-based measurement of oxygen saturation. Since the perfusion fluid 108
     is blood product based in certain embodiments, it may contain red blood cells (i.e., oxygen
     carrying cells). Accordingly, the sensor 140 also provides a signal 145 indicative of a
     hematocrit measurement of the perfusion fluid 108. In alternative embodiments the
     solution 108 is formed of a synthetic blood substitute, while in other embodiments, the
 10  solution 108 may contain a blood product in combination with a blood substitute product.
             Also, in both flow modes, the nutritional subsystem 115, including a supply of
     maintenance solutions 116/118 and an infusion pump 18 2, infuses the perfusion fluid 108
     with nutrients 116, such as glucose, as the perfusion 108 solution flows through the'system
     100, and in some embodiments, while it is in the reservoir 160. The maintenance solutions
15   116/118 also include a supply of therapeutics and preservatives 118 for reducing ischemia
     and other re-perfusion related injuries to the heart 102.
             Both normal and retrograde flow modes are described in further detail below with
    reference to Figures 24A-26B.
             According to the illustrative embodiment, the system 100 is primed prior to
20  introducing an organ into the organ chamber assembly 104. During priming, a priming
     solution (described below) is inserted into the organ chamber 160 and pumped through the
     system 100. In one exemplar application, the priming occurs for a period of between about
     5 and about 20 minutes. The cannulation interfaces 162, 166 and 170 in the organ
    chamber assembly 104 are bypassed to enable nonnal mode flow of perfusion fluid 108
25  through the system 100, without the donor heart 102 being present. Blood (or a synthetic
    blood substitute) is then loaded into the reservoir 160. The blood may be the blood
    exsanguinated from the donor during harvesting of the heart 102 or obtained from typed
    and cross-matched banked blood. The system 100 then circulates the blood (or blood
    substitute) through the system 100 to heat, oxygenate, and filter it. Nutrients, preservatives
30  and/or other therapeutics are provided via the infusion pump 182 of the nutritional
    subsystem 115. Various parameters may also be initialized and calibrated via the operator
    interface 146 during priming. Once the system 100 is running appropriately, the pump rate
    can be decreased or brought to zero, and the heart 102 can be cannulated into the organ
                                                  -24-

       chamber assembly 104. The pump rate can then be increased. Priming of the system 100
       is described in further detail below with reference to the flow diagram of Figure 29A.
               As shown in Figure 1, the system 100 also includes a plurality of compliance
       chambers 184, 186 and 188. The compliance chambers 184, 186 and 188 are essentially
   5   small inline fluid accumulators with flexible, resilient walls designed to simulate the
      human body's vascular compliance by aiding the system in more accurately mimicking
      blood flow in the human body, for example, by providing flow back-pressure and/or by
      filtering/reducing fluid pressure spikes due, for example, to flow rate changes and/or the
      pumping of the pump 106. According to the illustrative embodiment, the compliance
 10   chamber 184 is located between an output 112a of the mode valve 112 and the reservoir
      160 and operates in combination with an adjustable clamp 190 during normal flow mode
      to provide back pressure to the aorta 158 t o cause efsion fluid to flow into the coronary
      sinus 155 to feed the heart 102. In the illustrative embodiment, the fluid back-pressure
     provided to the aorta 158 is between about 55 mmHg and about 85 mmHg, which is within
 15  an acceptable near-physiologic range of mean aortic blood pressure (which is typically
     between about 80 mmHg and about 100 mmHg). The back pressure to the aorta 158 aids
     the system 100 in simulating normal physiologic conditions. The compliance chamber 186
     is located between an output 112b of the mode valve 112 and the pulmonary vein
     cannulation interface 170 of the organ chamber assembly 104. The primary function of the
20   compliance chamber 186 is to provide back-pressure to the left atrium 152 and to smooth
     pressure/flow spikes caused from the pumping action of the perfusion fluid pump 106,
     which delivers blood to the heart without causing substantial fluid pressure spikes. In the
     illustrative embodiment, the fluid back-pressure provided to the left atrium 152 is between
     about 0 nunHg to about 14 mmHg, which is approximately the same as the left atrial
25   pressure under normal physiologic conditions. . The compliance chamber 188 is located
     between an output of a one way valve 310 and an inlet 11 Oa of the heater 110. The
     primary function of the compliance chamber 188 is also to smooth pressure/flow spikes
     caused by the pumping action of the perfusion fluid pump 106 and to provide fluid back
     pressure to the pulmonary artery 164. In the illustrative embodiment, the fluid back
30   pressure provided to the pulmonary artery 164 is between about 0 mm-g and about 25
     nmUnHg, which is within an acceptable near-physiologic range of mean arterial blood
     pressure (between about 0 mmHg and about 12 mmHg).
                                                   -25-

                  The compliance chambers 184, 186 and 188 provide the benefits described above
        through their size and shape and the materials used in their design. The chambers 184, 186
        and 188 are sized to contain about 20 ml to about 100 ml of fluid 108, and they are shaped
        in an oval configuration to allow them to receive fluid 108 and expand to dampen pressure
   5    spikes and to provide back-pressure to the heart 102. In certain applications, the material
       used for the chambers 184, 186 and 188 includes at least one flexible membrane, selected
        so' that the chambers have a Shore A durametric hardness (ASTM D2240 00) of about 10
       (more flexible) to about 60 (less flexible), with certain preferred embodiments having a
       hardness of between about 30 (+/- about 8) and about 50 (+/- about 8). In the illustrative
 10    embodiment, the compliance chamber 184 has a Shore A hardness of about 50 (+/- about
       8) and the compliance chamber 186 has a Shore A hardness of about 30 (+/- about 8). In
       the illustrative embodiment, the compliance chamber 188 has a dual-layered configuration,
       with an inner chamber having a Shore A hardness of about 50 (+/- about 8) and an outer
       sleeve having a Shore A hardness of about 30 (+/- about 8). Alternatively, the inner
 15    chamber can have a lower hardness (e.g., about 30, +/- about 8) and outer sleeve can have
      a higher hardness (e.g., about 50, +/- about 8)).
                 Having provided an operational overview of the system 100, the organ chamber
      assembly 104, the perfusion heater assembly 110, and a pump head interface assembly 192
      for interfacing with the pump 106 are next described in further detail. Figures 5A-5F
20    depict various views of the illustrative organ chamber assembly 104 of Figure 1. As
      shown most clearly in Figures 5A-5D, the organ chamber assembly 104 includes a housing
      194, a outer lid 196 and an intermediate lid 198. The housing includes a bottom 194e and
      one or more walls 194a-194d for containing the heart 102. The intermediate lid 198
      covers an opening 200 to the housing 194 for substantially enclosing the heart 102 within
25   the housing 194, As most clearly shown in Figures 5E and 5F, the intermediate lid 198
      includes a frame 198a and a flexible membrane 198b suspended within the frame 198a.
     The flexible membrane 198b, preferably, is transparent but may be opaque, translucent, or
     substantially transparent. According to one feature, the flexible membrane includes
     sufficient excess membrane material to contact the heart 102 when contained within the
30   housing 195. This feature enables a medical operator to touch/examine the heart 102
     indirectly through the membrane 198b, or apply an ultrasound probe to the heart 102
     through the membrane 198b, while maintaining sterility of the housing 195. The
     membrane 198b may be made, for example, from any suitable flexible polymer plastic, for
                                                    -26-

      example polyurethane. The membrane 198b may also have integrated electrically
      conductive pads/contacts 199a and 199b through which electrical activity of the heart may
     be sensed via electrodes such as the electrodes 142 and 144, and/or for through which
     defibrillation or pacing signals may be delivered, as described more fully below.
  5  Alternatively, the contacts 199a and 199b may be electrodes including all or a portion of
     the functionality of the electrodes 142 and 144. As shown in Figure 5C, the outer lid 196
     opens and closes over the intermediate lid 198 independently from the intermediate lid
     198. Preferably, the outer lid 196 is rigid enough to protect the heart 102 from physical
     ccintact indirect or indirect. The outer lid 196 and the chamber 194 may also be made
 10  from any suitable polymer plastic, for example polycarbonate.
             According to one implementation, the housing 194 includes two hinge sections
     202a and 202b, and the intermediate lid frame 198a includes two corresponding mating
     hinge sections 204a and 204b, respectively. The hinge sections 202a and 202b on the
     housing 194 interfit with the hinge sections 204a and 204b on the intermediate lid frame
15   198a to enable the intermediate lid 198 to open and close relative to the opening 200 of the
     housing 194. As shown most clearly in Figures 5D and 5F, the organ chamber assembly
     104 also includes two latches 206a and 206b for securing the intermediate lid 198 closed
     over the opening 200. As shown in Figures 5E and 5F, the latches 206a and 206b rotatably
     snap fit onto latch hinge section 208a and 208b, respectively, on the wall 194c of the
20  housing 194. As shown most clearly in Figures SA and 5E, the intermediate lid frame
     198a also includes a hinge section 210. The hinge section 210 rotatably snap fits with a
    mating hinge section 212 on the outer lid 196 to enable the outer lid 196 to open without
     opening the intermediate lid 198. As shown best in Figures SB, SD and 5F, the outer lid
     196 also includes two cutouts 214a and 214b for enabling the latches 206a and 206b-to
25  clamp down on the edge 216 of the intermediate lid frame 198a. As shown in Figures 5B,
     5D and 5F, the organ chamber assembly 104 also includes a latch 218, which rotatably
    snap fits onto a hinge part 220 on the wall 194c of the housing 194. In operation, the latch
    218 engages a tab 221 on the edge 225 of the outer lid 196 to secure the outer lid 196
    closed over the intermediate lid 198.
30           As shown most clearly in Figures 5E and 5F, the intermediate lid also includes two
    gaskets 198c and 198d. The gasket 198d interfits between a periphery of the intermediate
    lid frame 198a and a periphery of the outer lid 196 to form a fluid seal between the
    intermediate lid 198 and the outer lid 196 when the outer lid 196 is closed. The gasket
                                                  -27-

    198c interfits between an outer rim 194f of the housing 194 and the intermediate lid flame
    198a to fonn a fluid seal between the intermediate lid 198 and the periphery 194f of the
   housing 194 when the intermediate lid 198 is closed.
             Optionally, the organ chamber assembly 104 includes a pad 222 or a sac assembly
 5  sized and shaped for interfitting over an inner bottom surface 194g of the housing 194.
   Preferably, the pad 222 is formed from a material resilient enough to cushion the heart 102
   from mechanical vibrations and shocks during transport, for example a closed-cell foam.
   According to one feature, the pad 222 includes a mechanism for adjustably positioning a
   pair of electrodes, such as the electrodes 142 and 144 of Figure . According to the
10 illustrative embodiment, the mechanism includes two through-apertures 224a and 224b for
   passing electrical leads from the under side of the pad 222 to corresponding electrodes 142
   and 144 on the heart-contacting surface of the pad. Passing the electrical leads through the
   pad 222 to the electrodes 142 and 144 enables the electrodes 142 and 144 to be adjustably
   positioned within the pad 222 to accommodate variously sized hearts. In other
15 embodiments, the mechanism may include, without limitation, one or more differently
   oriented slots, indentations, protrusions, through apertures, partially through apertures,
   hooks, eyelets, adhesive patches, or the like. In certain embodiments, the pad 222 may be
   configured with one or more sleeve-like structures that allow an electrode to be inserted
   within the pad 222, thus providing a membrane-like surface of the pad 222 positioned
20 between the electrode and the heart 102.
            In some illustrative embodiments, the pad 222 is configured as a pad assembly,
   with the assembly including one or more electrodes, such as the electrodes 142 and 144,
   adjustably located in or on the pad 222. According to one advantage, the pad/electrode
   configuration of the invention facilitates contact between the electrodes and the heart 102
25 placed on the pad 222, without temporarily or permanently suturing or otherwise
   mechanically connecting the electrodes to the heart 102. The weight of the heart 102 itself
   can also help stabilize the electrodes during transport. According to the illustrative
   embodiment, the electrodes 142 and 144 include one or more sensors for monitoring one
   or more electrical signals from the heart and/or defibrillators for providing an electrical
30 signal to the heart. As shown in Figures 1 and 5C, the organ chamber assembly 104
   includes electrical interface connections 235a-235b, which mount into the apertures 234a
   234b, respectively, in the wall 194b of the housing 194. A cover 226 is provided for
   protecting the electrical interface connections 235a-235b when not being used.
                                                 -28-

             As described below in further detail with reference to Figure 15, the interface
     connections 235a and 235b couple electrical signals, such as ECG signals, from the
     electrodes 142 and 144 out of the housing 194, for example, to the controller 194 and/or
     the operator interface 146. As described in further detail below with reference to Figure
  5  22A, the interface connections 235a and 235b may also couple to a defibrillation source,
     which may be either provided by external instrumentation or through circuitry within the
     system 100, and which can send a defibrillation or pacing signal 143 through electrodes
     142 and 144 to the heart 102.
            As shown most clearly in Figures 5E and 5F, the organ chamber assembly 104
 10 includes a resealable membrane interface 230, which mounts in an interface aperture 232.
    The interface 230 includes a frame 230a and a resealable polymer membrane 230b
    mounted in the fi-ame 230a. The membrane 23Gb may be made of silicone or any other
    suitable polymer. In operation, the interface 230 is used to provide pacing leads, when
    necessary, to the heart 102, without having to open the chamber lids 196 and 198. The
 15 membrane 230b seals around the pacing leads to maintain a closed environment around the
    heart 102. The membrane 230b also reseals in response to removing the pacing leads.
            As shown in Figures 5A and 5B, the organ chamber assembly 104 includes
    apertures 228a-228c for receiving the aorta interface 162, the puhnonary artery interface
    166 and the pulmonary vein interface 170, described above with reference to Figures 1-4,
20  and below with reference to Figures 24A-28C. As shown in Figure 5D, the organ chamber
    assembly 104 also includes a drain 201 for draining perfusion fluid 108 out of the housing
    194 back into the reservoir 160, and mounting receptacles 203A-203d for mounting the
    organ chamber assembly 104 onto the single use module (shown at 634 in Figure 19A).
            Figures 6A-6F depict various views of the perfusion fluid heater assembly 110 of
25  Figure 1. As shown in Figures 6A and 6B, the heater assembly 110 includes a housing 234
    having an inlet 110a and an outlet 110b. As shown in both the longitudinal cross-sectional
    view of Figure 6D and the lateral cross-sectional view of Figure 6E, the heater assembly
    110 includes a flow channel 240 extending between the inlet 110a and the outlet 110b.
    The heater assembly 110 may be conceptualized as having upper 236 and lower 238
30  symmetrical halves. Accordingly, only the upper half is shown in an exploded view in
    Figure 6F.
            Referring now to Figures 6D-GF, the flow channel 240 is formed between first 242
    and second 244 flow channel plates. The inlet I 10a flows the perfusion fluid into the flow
                                                -29-

      channel 240 and the outlet 110b flows the perfusion fluid out of the heater 110. The first
      242 and second 244 flow channel plates have substantially bioinert perfusion fluid 108
      contacting surfaces (which may contain a blood-product in certain embodiments) for
     providing direct contact with the perfusion fluid flowing through the channel 240. The
  5  fluid contacting surfaces may be formed from a treatment or coating on the plate or may be
     the plate surface itself. The heater assembly 110 includes first and second electric heaters
     246 and 248, respectively. The first heater 246 is located adjacent to and couples heat to a
     first heater plate 250. The first heater plate 250, in turn, couples the heat to the first flow
     channel plate 242. Similarly, the second heater 248 is located adjacent to and couples heat
 10  to a second heater plate 252. The second heater plate 252 couples the heat to the second
     flow channel plate 244. According to the illustrative embodiment, the first 250 and second
     252 heater plates are formed from a material, such as aluminum, that conducts and
     distributes heat from the first 246 and second 248 electric heaters, respectively, relatively
     uniformly. The uniform heat distribution of the heater plates 250 and 252 enables the flow
15   channel plates to be formed from a bioinert material, such as titanium, reducing concern
    regarding its heat distribution characteristic.
    Referring particularly to Figures 6E and 6F, the heater assembly 110 also includes O-rings
    254 and 256 for fluid sealing respective flow channel plates 242 and 244 to the housing
    234 to form the flow channel 240.
20           The heater assembly 110 further includes first assembly brackets 258 and 260. The
    assembly bracket 258 mounts on the top side 236 of the heater assembly 110 over a
    periphery of the electric heater 246 to sandwich the heater 246, the heater plate 250 and the
    flow channel plate 242 between the assembly bracket 258 and the housing 234. The bolts
    262a-262j fit through corresponding through holes in the bracket 258, electric heater 246,
25  heater plate 250 and flow channel plate 242, and thread into corresponding nuts 264a-264j
    to affix all of those components to the housing 234. The assembly bracket 260 mounts on
    the bottom side 238 of the heater assembly 110 in a similar fashion to affix the heater 248,
    the heater plate 252 and the flow channel plate 244 to the housing 234. A resilient pad 268
    interfits within a periphery of the bracket 258. Similarly, a resilient pad 270 interfits
30  within a periphery of the bracket 260. A bracket 272 fits over the pad 268. The bolts
    278a-278f interfit through the holes 276a-276f, respectively, in the bracket 272 and thread
    into the nuts 280a-280f to compress the resilient pad 268 against the heater 246 to provide
                                                   -30-

        a more efficient heat transfer to the heater plate 250. The resilient pad 270 is compressed
       against the heater 248 in a similar fashion by the bracket 274.
                As mentioned with respect to Figure 1, and as also shown in Figure 6A, the
       illustrative heater assembly 110 includes temperature sensors 120 and 122 and dual-sensor
   5    124. The dual sensor 124 in practice includes a dual thermistor sensor for providing fault
       tolerance, measures the temperature of the perfusion fluid 108 exiting the heater assembly
       110, and provides these temperatures to the controller 150. As described in further detail
      below with respect to the heating subsystem 149 of Figure 13, the signals from the sensors
       120, 122 and 124 may be employed in a feedback loop to control drive signals to the first
 10   246 and/or second 248 heaters to control the temperature of the heaters 256 and 248.
      Additionally, to ensure that heater plates 250 and 252 and, therefore, the blood contacting
      surfaces 242 and 244 of the heater plates 250 and 252 do not reach a temperature that
      might damage the perfusion fluid, the illustrative heater assembly 110 also includes
      temperature sensors/lead wires 120 and 122 for monitoring the temperature of the heaters
 15   246 and 248, respectively, and providing these temperatures to the controller 150. In
      practice, the sensors attached to sensors/lead wires 120 and 122 are RTD (resistance
      temperature device) based. As also discussed in further detail with respect to Figure 13,
      the signals from the sensors attached to sensors/lead wires 120 and 122 may be employed
      in a feedback loop to further control the drive signals to the first 246 and/or second 248
20   heaters to limit the maximum temperature of the heater plates 250 and 252. As a fault
     protection, there are sensors for each of the heaters 246 and 248, so that if one should fail,
     the system can continue to operate with the temperature at the other sensor.
               As described in further detail below with respect to Figure 13, the heater 246 of the
     heater assembly 110 receives from the controller 150 drive signals 281a and 281b
25   (collectively 281) onto corresponding drive lead 282a. Similarly, the heater 248 receives
     from the controller 150 drive signals 283a and 283b (collectively 283) onto drive lead
     282b. The drive signals 281 and 283 control the current to, and thus the heat generated by,
     the respective heaters 246 and 248. More particularly, as shown in Figure 7, the drive
     leads 282a includes a high and a low pair, which connect across a resistive element 286 of
30   the heater 246. The greater the current provided through the resistive element 286, the
     hotter the resistive element 286 gets. The heater 248 operates in the same fashion with
     regard to the drive lead 282b. According to the illustrative embodiments, the element 286
     has a resistance of about 5 ohms. However, in other illustrative embodiments, the element
                                                     -31-

       may have a resistance of between about 3 ohms and about 10 ohms. As discussed in more
       detail below with regard to Figures 11 and 13, the heaters 246 and 248 may be controlled
       independently by the processor 150.
               According to the illustrative embodiment, the heater assembly 110 housing
   5   components are formed from a molded plastic, for example, polycarbonate, and weighs
      less than about one pound. More particularly, the housing 234 and the brackets 258, 260,
      272 and 274 are all formed from a molded plastic, for example, polycarbonate. According
      to another feature, the heater assembly is a single use disposable assembly.
               In operation, the illustrative heater assembly 110 uses between about 1 Watt and
 10   about 200 Watts of power, and is sized and shaped to transition perfusion fluid 108
      flowing through the channel 240 at a rate of between about 300 m/min and about 5 L/min
      fRom a temperature of less than about 300C to a temperature of at least about 370C in less
      than about 30 minutes, less than about 25 minutes, less than about 20 minutes, less than
      about 15 minutes or even less than about 10 minutes, without substantially causing
 15  hemolysis of cells, or denaturing proteins or otherwise damaging any blood product
     portions of the perfusion fluid.
     According to one feature, the heater assembly 110 includes housing components, such as
     the housing 234 and the brackets 258, 260, 272 and 274, that are formed from a
     polycarbonate and weighs less than about 5 lb. In other embodiments, the heater assembly
20   may weigh less than about 4 1b, less than about 3 lb, less than about 2 1b, or even less than
     about 1 lb. In the illustrative embodiment, the heater assembly 110 has a length 288 of
     about 6.6 inches, not including the inlet 110a and outlet 110b ports, and a width 290 of
     about 2.7 inches. The heater assembly 110 has a height 292 of about 2.6 inches. The flow
     channel 240 of the heater assembly 110 has a nominal width 296 of about 1.5 inches, a
25   nominal length 294 of about 3.5 inches, and a nominal height 298 of about 0.070 inches.
     The height 298 and width 296 are selected to provide for uniform heating of the perfusion
     fluid 108 as it passes through the channel 240. The height 298 and width 296 are also
     selected to provide a cross-sectional area within the channel 240 that is approximately
     equal to the inside cross-sectional area of fluid conduits that carry the perfusion fluid 108
30   into and/or away from the heater assembly 110. In one configuration, the height 298 and
     width 296 are selected to provide a cross-sectional area within the channel 240 that is
     approximately equal to the inside cross-sectional area of the inlet fluid conduit 792 (shown
                                                     -32-

      below with reference to Figure 25C) and/or substantially equal to the inside cross-sectional
      area of the outlet fluid conduit 794 (shown below with reference to Figure 24E).
              Projections 257a -257d and 259a-259d are included in the heater assembly 110 and
      are used to receive a heat-activated adhesive for binding the heating assembly to the
  5   multiple-use unit 650 (referenced in Figure 20A),
              Figures 8A-8C show various views of a pump interface assembly 300 according to
      an illustrative embodiment of the invention. Figure 9 shows a perspective view of a pump
      driver end of the perfusion fluid pump assembly 106 of Figure 1, and Figure 10 shows the
     pump interface assembly 300 mated with the pump-driver end of the perfusion fluid pump
 10   assembly 106, according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention. Referring to
     Figures 8A-10, the pump interface assembly 300 includes a housing 302 having an outer
     side 304 and an inner side 306. The interface asscibly 300 includes an ine 308 and an
     outlet 310. As shown most clearly in the bottom view of Figure 8B and the exploded view
     of Figure 8C, the pump interface assembly 300 also includes inner 312 and outer 314 0
15   ring seals, two deformable membranes 316 and 318, a doughnut-shaped bracket 320, and
     half-rings 319a and 319b that fit between the o-ring 314 and the bracket 320. The half
     rings 319a and 319b may be made of foam, plastic, or other suitable material.
              The inner O-ring 312 fits into an annular track along a periphery of the inner side
     306. The first deformable membrane 316 mounts over the inner O-ring 312 in fluid tight
20   interconnection with the inner side 306 of the housing 302 to form a chamber between an
     interior side of the first deformable membrane 316 and the inner side 306 of the housing
     302. A second deformable membrane 318 fits on top of the first deformable membrane
     316 to provide fault tolerance in the event that the first deformable membrane 316 rips or
     tears. Illustratively, the deformable membranes 316 and 318 are formed from a thin
25  polyurethane film (about 0.002 inches thick). However, any suitable material of any
     suitable thickness may be employed. Referring to Figures 8A and 8B, the bracket 320
    mounts over the second deformable membrane 318 and the rings 319a and 319b and
     affixes to the housing 302 along a periphery of the inner side 306. Threaded fasteners
     322a-322i attach the bracket 320 to the housing 302 by way of respective threaded
30  apertures 324a-324i in the bracket 320. As shown in Figure 8B, the outer 0-ring 314
    interfits into an annular groove in the bracket 320 for providing fluid tight seal with the
    pump assembly 106. Prior to inserting O-ring 314 into the annular groove in bracket 320,
    the half-rings 319a and 319b are placed in the groove. The O-ring 314 is then compressed
                                                  -33-

      and positioned within the annular groove in bracket 320. After being positioned within the
      annular groove, the 0-ring 314 expands within the groove to secure itself and the half
     rings 319a and 3l9b in place.
              The pump interface assembly 300 also includes heat stake points 32la-321c, which
  5  project from its outer side 304. As described in further detail below with reference to
     Figures 21A-21C and 24A-24C, the points 321a-321c receive a hot glue to heat-stake the
     pump interface assembly 300 to a C-shaped bracket 656 of the single use disposable
     module chassis 635.
             As shown in Figure 8C, the fluid outlet 310 includes an outlet housing 31 Oa, an
 10  outlet fitting 3 10b, a flow regulator ball 3 10c and an outlet port 310d. The ball 310c is
     sized to fit within the outlet port 3 10d but not to pass through an inner aperture 326 of the
     outlet 310. The fitting 310b is bonded to the outlet port 310d (e.g., via epoxy or another
     adhesive) to capture the ball 310c between the inner aperture 326 and the fitting 310b. The
     outlet housing 31 0a is similarly bonded onto the fitting 31 Ob.
15           In operation, the pump interface assembly 300 is aligned to receive a pumping
     force from a pump driver 334 of the perfusion fluid pump assembly 106 and translate the
    pumping force to the perfusion fluid 108, thereby circulating the perfusion fluid 108 to the
    organ chamber assembly 104. According to the illustrative embodiment, the perfusion
    fluid pump assembly 106 includes a pulsatile pump having a driver 334 (described in
20  father detail below with regard to Figure 9), which contacts the membrane 318. The fluid
    inlet 308 draws perfusion fluid 108, for example, from the reservoir 160, and provides the
    fluid into the chamber formed between the inner membrane 316 and the inner side 306 of
    the housing 302 in response to the pump driver moving in a direction away from the
    deformable membranes 316 and 318, thus deforming the membranes 316 and 318 in the
25  same direction. As the pump driver moves away from the deformable membranes 316 and
    318, the pressure head of the fluid 108 inside the reservoir 160 causes the perfusion fluid
     108 to flow from the reservoir 160 into the pump assembly 106. In this respect, the pump
    assembly 106, the inlet valve 191 and the reservoir 160 are oriented to provide a gravity
    feed of perfusion fluid 108 into the pump assembly 106. At the same time, the flow
30  regulator ball 3 1Oc is drawn into the aperture 326 to prevent perfusion fluid 108 from also
    being drawn into the chamber through the outlet 310. It should be noted that the outlet
    valve 310 and the inlet valve 191 are one way valves in the illustrated embodiment, but in
    alternative embodiments the valves 310 and/or 191 are two-way valves. In response to the
                                                    -34-

      pump driver 334 moving in a direction toward the deformable membranes 316 and 318,
      the flow regulator ball 310c moves toward the fitting 310b to open the inner aperture 326,
      which enables the outlet 310 to expel perfusion fluid 108 out of the chamber formed
      between the inner side 306 of the housing 302 and the inner side of the deformable
  5   membrane 316. A separate one-way inlet valve 191, shown between the reservoir 160 and
      the inlet 308 in Figure 1, stops any perfusion fluid from being expelled out of the inlet 308
      and flowing back into the reservoir 160.
              As discussed in ffither detail below with respect to Figures 18A-27B, in certain
     embodiments the organ care system 100 mechanically divides into a disposable single-use
 10  unit (shown at 634 in Figures 19A-19C and 24A-25C) and a non-disposable multi-use unit
     (shown at 650 in Figure 20A). In such embodiments, the pump assembly 106 rigidly
     mounts to the multiple use module 650, and the pump interface assembly 300 rigidly
     mounts to the disposable single use module 634. The pump assembly 106 and the pump
     interface assembly 300 have corresponding interlocking connections, which mate together
15   to form a fluid tight seal between the two assemblies 106 and 300.
              More particularly, as shown in the perspective view of Figure 9, the perfusion fluid
    pump assembly 106 includes a pump driver housing 338 having a top surface 340, and a
    pump driver 334 housed within a cylinder 336 of the housing 338 The pump driver
    housing 338 also includes a docking port 342, which includes a slot 332 sized and shaped
20  for mating with a flange 328 projecting from the pump interface assembly 300. As shown
    in Figure 10, the top surface 340 of the pump driver housing 338 mounts to a bracket 346
    on the non-disposable multiple use module unit 650. The bracket 346 includes features
    344a and 344b for abutting the tapered projections 323a and 323b, respectively, of the
    pump interface assembly 300. The bracket 346 also includes a cutout 330 sized angl
25  shaped for aligning with the docking port 342 and the slot 332 on the pump driver housing
    338.
              Operationally, the seal between the pump interface assembly 300 and the fluid
    pump assembly 106 is formed in two steps, illustrated with reference to Figures 9 and 10.
    In a first step, the flange 328 is positioned within the docking port 342, while the tapered
30  projections 323a and 323b are positioned on the clockwise side next to corresponding
    features 344a and 344b on the bracket 346. In a second step, as shown by the arrows 345,
    347 and 349 in Figure 9, the pump interface assembly 300 and the fluid pump assembly
    106 are rotated in opposite directions (e.g., rotating the pump interface assembly 300 in a
                                                  -35-

     counter clockwise direction while holding the punp assembly 106 fixed) to slide the
     flange 328 into the slot 332 of the docking port 342. At the same time, the tapered
     projections 323a and 323b slide under the bracket features 344a and 344b, respectively,
     engaging inner surfaces of the bracket features 344a and 344b with tapered outer surfaces
  5  of the tapered projections 323a and 323b to draw the inner side 306 of the pump interface
     assembly 300 toward the pump driver 334 and to interlock the flange 328 with the docking
     ports 342, and the tapered projections 323a and 323b with the bracket features 344a and
     344b to fom the fluid tight seal between the two assemblies 300 and 106.
             Having described the illustrative organ care system 100 from a system, operational
 10  and component point of view, illustrative control systems and methods for achieving
     operation of the system 100 are next discussed. More particularly, Figure 11 depicts a
     block diagram of an illustrative control scheme for the system 100. As described above
     with reference to Figure 1, the system 100 includes a controller 150 for controlling
     operation of the system 100. As shown, the controller 150 connects interoperationally
15   with the following six subsystems: an operator interface 146 for assisting an operator in
    monitoring and controlling the system 100 and in monitoring the condition of the heart
     102; a data acquisition subsystem 147 having various sensors for obtaining data relating to
    the heart 102 and to the system 100, and for conveying the data to the controller 150; a
    power management subsystem 148 for providing fault tolerant power to the system 100; a
20  heating subsystem 149 for providing controlled energy to the heater 110 for warming the
    perfusion fluid 108; a data management subsystem 151 for storing and maintaining data
    relating to operation of the system 100 and with respect to the heart 102; and a pumping
    subsystem 153 for controlling the pumping of the perfusion fluid 108 through the system
     100. It should be noted that although the system 100 is described conceptually with
25  reference to a single controller 150, the control of the system 100 may be distributed in a
    plurality of controllers or processors. For example, any or all of the described subsystems
    may include a dedicated processor/controller. Optionally, the dedicated
    processors/controllers of the various subsystems may communicate with and via a central
    controller/processor.
30          Figures 12..-- 17J illustrate the interoperation of the various subsystems of Figure
    11. Referring first to the block diagram of Figure 12, the data acquisition subsystem 147
    includes sensors for obtaining information pertaining to how the system 100 and the heart
    102 is functioning, and for communicating that information to the controller 150 for
                                                    -36-

       processing and use by the system 100. As described with respect to Figure 1, the sensors
       of subsystem 147 include, without limitation: temperature sensors 120, 122 and 124;
      pressure sensors 126, 128, and 130; flow rate sensors 134, 136 and 138; the
       oxygenation/hematocrit sensor 140; and electrodes 142 and 144. The data acquisition
   5  subsystem 147 also includes: a set of Hall sensors 388 and a shaft encoder 390 from the
      perfusion pump assembly 106; battery sensors 362a-362c for sensing whether the batteries
      352a-352c, respectively, are sufficiently charged; an external power available sensor 354
      for sensing whether external AC power is available; an operator interface module battery
      sensor 370 for sensing a state of charge of the operator interface module battery; and a gas
 10   pressure sensor 132 for sensing gas flow from the gas flow chamber 176. How the system
      100 uses the information from the data acquisition subsystem 147 will now be described
      with regard to the heating 149, power management 148, pumping 153, data management
      151, and operator interface 146 subsystems, shown in further detail in Figures 13-17J,
     respectively.
 15           The heating subsystem 149 is depicted in the block diagram of Figure 13. With
     continued reference also to Figure 1, the heating subsystem 149 controls the temperature
     of the perfusion fluid 108 within the system 100 through a dual feedback loop approach.
     In the first loop 251 (the perfusion fluid temperature loop), the perfusion fluid temperature
     thermistor sensor 124 provides two (fault tolerant) signals 125 and 127 to the controller
20   150. The signals 125 and 127 are indicative of the temperature of the perfusion fluid 108
     as it exits the heater assembly 110. The controller 150 regulates the drive signals 285 and
     287 to the drivers 247 and 249, respectively. The drivers 247 and 249 convert
     corresponding digital level signals 285 and 287 from the controller 150 to heater drive
     signals 281 and 283, respectively, having sufficient current levels to drive the first 246 and
25   second 248 heaters to heat the perfusion fluid 108 to within an operator selected
     temperature range. In response to the controller 150 detecting that the perfusion fluid
     temperatures 125 and 127 are below the operator-selected temperature range, it sets the
     drive signals 281 and 283 to the first 246 and second 248 heaters, respectively, to a
     sufficient level to continue to heat the perfusion fluid 108. Conversely, in response to the
30   controller 150 detecting that the perfusion fluid temperatures 125 and 127 are above the
     operator-selected temperature range, it decreases the drive signals 281 and 283 to the first
     246 and second 248 heaters, respectively. In response to detecting that the temperature of
                                                  -37-

     the perfusion fluid 108 is within the operator-selected temperature range, the controller
      150 maintains the drive signals 281 and 283 at constant or substantially constant levels.
              Preferably, the controller 150 varies the drive signals 281 and 283 in substantially
     the same manner. However, this need not be the case. For example, each heater 246 and
  5  248 may respond differently to a particular current or voltage level drive signal. In such a
     case, the controller 150 may drive each heater 246 and-248 at a slightly different level to
     obtain the same temperature from each. According to one feature, the heaters 246 and 248
     each have an associated calibration factor, which the controller 150 stores and employs
     when determining the level of a particular drive signal to provide to a particular-heater to
 10  achieve a particular temperature result. In certain configurations, the controller 150 sets
     one of the thermistors in dual sensor 124 as the default thennistor, and will use the
     temperature reading from the default thermistor in instances where the thermistors give
     two different temperature readings. In certain configurations, where the temperature
    readings are within a pre-defined range, the controller 150 uses the higher of the two
15  readings. The drivers 247 and 249 apply the heater drive signals 281 and 283 to
    corresponding drive leads 282a and 282b on the heater assembly 110.
             In the second loop 253 (the heater temperature loop), the heater temperature
    sensors 120 and 122 provide signals 121 and 123, indicative of the temperatures of the
    heaters 246 and 248, respectively, to the controller 150. According to the illustrated
20  embodiment, a temperature ceiling is established fox the heaters 246 and 248 (e.g., by
    default or by operator selection), above which the temperatures of the heaters 246 and 248
    are not allowed to rise. As the temperatures of the heaters 246 and 248 rise and approach
    the temperature ceiling, the sensors 121 and 123 indicate the same to the controller 150,
    which then lowers the drive signals 281 and 283 to the heaters 246 and 248 to reduce or
25  stop the supply of power to the heaters 246 and 248. Thus, while a low temperature signal
    125 or 127 from the perfusion fluid temperature sensor 124 can cause the controller 150 to
    increase power to the heaters 246 and 248, the heater temperature sensors 120 and 122
    ensure that the heaters 246 and 248 are not driven to a degree that would cause their
    respective heater plates 250 and 252 to become hot enough to damage the perfusion fluid
30  108. According to various illustrative embodiments, the controller 150 is set to maintain
    the perfusion fluid temperature at between about 320 C and about 370 C, or between about
    340 C and about 36' C. According to a further illustrative embodiment, the controller 150
                                                  -38-

    is set to limit the maximum temperature of the heater plates 250 and 252 to less than about
    38- C , 39 C , 40" C, 41 C, or 42* C.
             As can be seen, the second loop 253 is configured to override the first loop 251, if
   necessary, such that temperature readings from temperature sensors 120 and 122 indicating
 5 that the heaters 246 and 248 are approaching the maximum allowable temperature override
   the effect of any low temperature signal from the perfusion fluid temperature sensor 124.
   In this respect, the subsystem 149 ensures that the temperature of the heater plates 250 and
   252 do not rise above the maximum allowable temperature, even if the temperature of the
   perfusion fluid 108 has not reached the operator-selected temperature value. This override
10 feature is particularly important during failure situations. For example, if the perfusion
   fluid temperature sensors 124 both fail, the second loop 253 stops the heater assembly 110
   from overheating and damaging the perfusion fluid 108 by switching control exclusively to
   the heater temperature sensors 120 and 122 and dropping the temperature set point to a
   lower value. According to one feature, the controller 150 takes into account two time
15 constants assigned to the delays associated with the temperature measurements from the
   heaters 246 and 248 and perfusion fluid 108 to optimize the dynamic response of the
   temperature controls.
             Figure 14 depicts a block diagram of the power management system 148 for
   providing fault tolerant power to the system 100. As shown, the system 100 may be
20 powered by one of four sources - by an external AC source 351 (e.g., 60 Hz, 120 VAC in
   North America or 50Hz, 230 VAC in Europe) or by any of three independent batteries
   352a - 352c. The controller 150 receives data from an AC line voltage availability sensor
   354, which indicates whether the AC voltage 351 is available for use by the system 100.
   In response to the controller 150 detecting that the AC voltage 351 is not available, the
25 controller 150. signals the power switching circuitry 356 to provide system power high 358
   from one of the batteries 352a-352c. The controller 150 determines from the battery
   charge sensors 362a-362c which of the available batteries 352a-352c is most fully charged,
   and then switches that battery into operation by way of the switching network 356.
             Alternatively, in response to the controller 150 detecting that the external AC
30 voltage 351 is available, it determines whether to use the available AC voltage 351 (e.g.,
   subsequent to rectification) for providing system power 358 and for providing power to the
   user interface module 146, for charging one or more of the batteries 352a-352c, and/or for
   charging the internal battery 368 of user interface module 146, which also has its own
                                                 -39-

       internal charger and charging controller. To use the available AC voltage 351, the
       controller 150 draws the AC voltage 351 into the power supply 350 by signaling through
       the switching system 364. The power supply 350 receives the AC voltage 351 and
       converts it to a DC current for providing power to the system 100. The power supply 350
   5  is universal and can handle any line frequencies or line voltages commonly used
      throughout the world. According to the illustrative embodiment, in response to a low
      battery indication from one or more of the battery sensors 362a-362c, the controller 150
      also directs power via the switching network 364 and the charging circuit 366 to the
      appropriate battery. In response to the controller 150 receiving a low battery signal from
 10   the sensor 370, it also or alternatively directs a charging voltage 367 to the user interface
      battery 368. According to another feature, the power management subsystem 148 selects
     batteries to power the system 100 in order of least-charged first, preserving the most
      charged batteries. If the battery that is currently being used to power the system 100 is
     removed by the user, the power management subsystem 148 automatically switches over
 15  to the next least-charged battery to continue powering the system 100.
              According to another feature, the power management subsystem 148 also employs
     a lock-out mechanism to prevent more than one of the batteries 352a-352c from being
     removed from the system 100 at a given time. If one battery is removed, the other two are
     mechanically locked into position within the system 100. In this respect, the system 148
20   provides a level of fault tolerance to help ensure that a source of power 358 is always
     available to the system 100.
              The pumping subsystem 153 of Figure 11 will now be described in further detail
     with reference to Figures 15 and 16. More particularly, Figure 15 is a conceptual block
     diagram depicting the illustrative pumping subsystem 153, and Figure 16 shows an
25   exemplary ECG 414 of a heart 102 synchronized with an exemplary wave 385 depicting
     pumping output by the subsystem 153. The ECG 414 shown in Figure 16 has P,            Q, R, 8,
     T, and U peaks. The pumping subsystem 153 includes the perfusion fluid pump 106
     interoperationally connected to the pump interface assembly 300, as described in more
     detail above with reference to Figures 8A-10. As shown in Figure 15, the controller 150
30   operates the pumping subsystem 153 by sending a drive signal 339 to a brushless three
     phase pump motor 360 using Hall Sensor feedback. The drive signal 339 causes the pump
     motor shaft 337 to rotate, thereby causing the pump screw 341 to move the pump driver
     334 up and/or down. According to the illustrative embodiment, the drive signal 339 is
                                                    -40-

     controlled to change a rotational direction and rotational velocity of the motor shaft 337 to
     cause the pump driver 334 to move up and down cyclically. This cyclical motion pumps
    the perfusion fluid 108 through the system 100.
             In operation, the controller 150 receives a first signal 387 from the Hall sensors 388
  5 positioned integrally within the pump motor shaft 337 to indicate the position of the pump
    motor shaft 337 for purposes of commutating the motor winding currents. The controller
     150 receives a second higher resolution signal 389 from a shaft encoder sensor 390
    indicating a precise rotational position of the pump screw 341. From the current motor
    commutation phase position 387 and the current rotational position 389, the controller 150
10  calculates the appropriate drive signal 339 (both magnitude and polarity) to cause the
    necessary rotational change in the motor shaft 337 to cause the appropriate vertical
    position change in the pump screw 341 to achieve the desired pumping action. By varying
    the magnitude of the drive signal 339, the controller 150 can vary the pumping rate (i.e.,
    how often the pumping cycle repeats) and by varying the rotational direction changes, the
15  controller 150 can vary the pumping stroke volume (e.g., by varying how far the pump
    driver 334 moves during a cycle). Generally speaking, the cyclical pumping rate regulates
    the pulsatile rate at which the perfusion fluid 108 is provided to the heart 102, while (for a
    given rate) the pumping stroke regulates the volume of perfusion fluid 108 provided to the
    heart 102.
20          Both the rate and stroke volume affect the flow rate, and indirectly the pressure, of
    the perfusion fluid 108 to and from the heart 102. As mentioned with regard to Figure 1,
    the system includes three flow rate sensors 134, 136 and 138, and three pressure sensors
    126, 128 and 130. As shown in Figure 15, the sensors 134, 136, and 138 provide
    corresponding flow rate signals 135, 137 and 139 to the controller 150. Similarly, the
25  sensors 126, 128 and 130 provide corresponding pressure signals 129, 131 and 133 to the
    controller 150, The controller 150 employs all of these signals in feedback to ensure that
    the commands that it is providing to the perfusion pump 106 have the desired effect on the
    system 100. In some instances, and as discussed below in further detail with reference to
    Figures 17A-1 7J, the controller 150 may generate various alarms in response to a signal
30  indicating that a particular flow rate or fluid pressure is outside an acceptable range.
    Additionally, employing multiple sensors enables the controller 150 to distinguish between
    a mechanical issue (e.g., a conduit blockage) with the system 100 and a biological issue
    with the heart 102.
                                                  -41-

             According to one feature of the invention, the pumping system 153 may be
     configured to control the position of the pump driver 334 during each moment of the
     pumping cycle to allow for finely tuned pumping rate and volumetric profiles. This in turn
     enables the pumping system 153 to supply perfusion fluid 108 to the heart with any desired
  5  pulsatile pattern. According to one illustrative embodiment, the rotational position of the
     shaft 337 is sensed by the shaft encoder 390 and adjusted by the controller 150 at least
     about 100 increments per revolution. In another illustrative embodiment, the rotational
     position of the shaft 337 is sensed by the shaft encoder 390 and adjusted by the controller
     150 at least about 1000 increments per revolution. According to a further illustrative
10   embodiment, the rotational position of the shaft 337 is sensed by the shaft encoder 390 and
     adjusted by the controller 150 at least about 2000 increments per revolution. The vertical
     position of the pump screw 341 and thus the pump driver 334 is calibrated initially to a
     zero or a ground position, corresponding to a reference position of the pump screw 341.
             According to the illustrative embodiment, the positional precision of the pumping
15   subsystem 153 enables the controller 150 to precisely regulate the pumping of the
    perfUsion fluid 108 through the heart 102. This process of synchronizing the pulsatile flow
    of the perfusion fluid to the heart's natural rate is referred to herein as "r-wave
    synchronization," which is described with continued reference to Figures 2, 15, and 16. A
    nonnally functioning heart has a two-phase pumping cycle - diastole and systole. During
20  the diastolic phase, also known as the "resting phase," the heart's atria 157 and 152
    contract causing valves to open between the atria 157 and 152 and the ventricles 154 and
     156 to allow blood to flow into and load the ventricles 154 and 156. During the systolic
    phase, the loaded ventricles eject the blood, and the atria 157 and 152 are opened and fill
    with blood. The cyclical expansion and contraction of the heart 102 during this process
25  can be represented by graphing the heart's ventricular ECG wave form, shown at 414 in
    Figure 16. Figure 16 depicts the ECG waveform 414 synchronized with an exemplary
    wave 385 representative of a pumping output by the subsystem 153.
            The pumping subsystem 153 is configured to provide the maximum output at a
    time that will result in delivery of fluid 108 to the heart 102 at the most beneficial time. In
30  the illustrated embodiment, in retrograde mode, the pumping subsystem 153 is configured
    to pump fluid 108 toward the heart 102 so that the maximum pump output 382 occurs
    during the diastolic phase of the heart, which begins after the S peak shown in Figure 16
    arid is when the left ventricle 156 has finished ejecting perfusion fluid 108 through the
                                                  -42-

     aorta 158. Timing the pump output in this manner allows the user to maximize the
     injection of perfusion fluid 108 through the aorta 158 and into the coronary sinus 155. The
     timed pumping is accomplished by starting the pumping at point 377 on wave 385, which
     is a point prior to point 382 and corresponds to the peak of the heart's r-wave pulse 380
  5  and the middle of ventricular systole. The point 377 is selected to account for time-delay
     between the time a signal is provided from the controller 150 to start pumping the fluid
     aiid the time of actual delivery of the pumped fluid 108 to the heart 102. In another
     example, during normal flow mode where the left side of the heart fills and ejects
     perfusion fluid (as described in more detail with reference to Figure 24A), the controller
 10  150 synchronizes the pumping subsystem 153 to start pumping at a fixed period of time
     afler the r-wave 380, so as to match the natural filling cycle of the left atrium 152. The
     synchronization maybeadjusted and fine-tned bythe operator through a pre-programmed
    routine in the operating software on the system 100 and/or by manually operating the
    controls of the user interface display area 410, as described in more detail below in
15  reference to Figures 17A - 17J.
             To achieve the synchronized pump output, the controller 150 predicts when the
    heart's r-wave pulses 380 will occur and causes the pump to pump at the appropriate time
    during the ECG 414. To make this prediction, the controller 150 measures the length
    various r-wave pulses 380 from the electrical signals 379 and 381 provided from the
20  electrodes 142 and 144, respectively. From these pulses, the controller 150 tracks the time
    that elapses from one pulse 380 to the next, and uses this information to calculate a
    running average of the length of time separating two sequential r-wave pulses. From this
    information, the controller 150 projects the time of the next r-wave (and from the
    projection determines the time prior to or after that projected r-wave when the pumping
25  should start to achieve optimal output delivery) by adding the average time separating two
    sequential r-wave pulses to the time of the previous r-wave 380. Based on this running
    average of separation time between r-waves, the controller 150 has the option to adjust the,,
    time of pump output in relation to subsequent r-waves, as reflected in the movement of
    wave 385 to the left or the right along the ECG 414 as signified by the arrow 383 in Figure
30  16. Adjusting the wave 385 thus allows the user to adjust and customize the timing of
    output by the pump 106 so as to optimize the filling of the heart. In addition, the pump 106
    may also be adjusted to increase or decrease the pump stroke volume to customize the
                                                 -43-

    volume of fluid 108 provided by the pump 106, and this may be done either in concert
    with or independent of the r-wave synchronization.
             It should be noted that although the subsystem 153 particularly synchronizes with
 5  the r-wave cycle 385, this need not be the case. In alternative illustrative embodiments,
    the subsystem 153 may pump in synchronicity with any available characteristic of the
    heart, including fluid pressures into or out of a particular chamber or vessel. Also, the
    subsystem 153 may be programmed to pump in any arbitrary pattern, whether periodic or
    not.
10          Referring back to Figure 11, the data management subsystem 151 receives and
    stores data and system information from the various other subsystems. The data and other
    information may be downloaded to a portable memory device and organizedwithin a
    database, as desired by an operator. The stored data and information can be accessed by
    an operator and displayed through the operator interface subsystem 146.
is          Turning now to the operator interface subsystem 146, Figures 17A-17J show
   various illustrative display screens of the operator interface subsystem 146. The display
    screens of Figures 17A-17J enable the operator to receive information from and provide
    commands to the system 100. Figure 17A depicts a top level "home page" display screen
   400 according to an illustrative embodiment of the invention. From the display screen 400
20 an operator can access all of the data available from the data acquisition subsystem 147,
   and can provide any desired commands to the controller 150. As described in more detail
   in reference to Figures 17B-17J, the display screen 400 of Figure 17A also allows the
   operator to access more detailed display screens for obtaining information, providing
   commands and setting operator selectable parameters.
25          With continued reference to Figure 1, the display screen 400 includes a display
   area 402, which shows a munber of numerical and graphical indications pertaining to the
   operation of the system 100. In particular, the display area 402 includes a numerical
   reading of the aorta output pressure (AOP) 404 of the perfusion fluid 108 exiting the aorta
   interface 162 on the organ chamber assembly 104, a wave form depiction 406 of the aortic
30 fluid pressure (AOP) 404, and an AOP alarm image 408 indicating whether the fluid
   pressure 404 is too high or too low (the alarm 408 is shown as "off' in Figure 17A). The
   display screen 400 also includes a display area 410 having a numerical indication 412 of
   the rate at which the heart 102 is beating, an ECG 414 of the heart 102, a heart rate (HR)
                                                 -44-

    alann image 416 indicating whether the HR 412 exceeds or falls below operator set
    thresholds, and a time log 418 indicating how long the system 100 has been running,
    including priming time (discussed in further detail below with reference to Figure 29A). A
    numerical display 419 shows the amount of time for which the system 100 has been
 5  supporting the heart 102. The indicator alann 413 indicates when an operator preset time
    limit is exceeded,
             The display screen 400 includes a number of additional display areas 420, 424,
    432,438, 444, 450, 456, 460, 462, 466, 472, 480, and 482. The display area 420 shows a
   numerical reading of the pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) 422. The PAP 422 is an
10  indication of the pressure of the perfusion fluid 108 flowing from the heart's pulmonary
    artery 164, as measured by the pressure sensor 130. The display area 420 also provides a
   PAP    alarm indicator 424, which s-gnals when the PAP 422 is outside an operator preset
   range, The display area 426 indicates the temperature (Temp) 428 of the perfusion fluid
    108 as it exits the heater 110. The display area 426 also includes a Temp alarm indicator
15 430, which signals in response to the Temp 428 being outside of an operator preset range.
   The upper limit of the operator preset range is shown at 427. The display area 432 shows a
   numerical reading of the hematocrit (HCT) 434 of the perfusion fluid 108, and an HCT
   alarm indicator 436 for signaling the operator if the HCT 434 falls below an operator
   preset threshold. The display area 438 shows the oxygen saturation (SvO 2) 440 of the
20 perfusion fluid 108. The display area 438 also includes a SvO2 alarm 442 for indicating if
   the SvOz 440 of the perfusion fluid 108 falls below an operator preset threshold. The
   display area 444 indicates the aorta output flow rate (AOF) 446 of the perfusion fluid 108
   as it flows out of the aorta 158. The AOF 446 is measured by the flow rate sensor 134.
   The AOF alarm 448 indicates whether the flow rate 446 falls outside of an operator preset
25 range. The display area 450 shows the organ chamber flow rate (CF) 452. The CF 452 is
   an indication of the flow rate of the perfusion fluid 108 as it exits the organ chamber 104,
   as measured by the flow rate sensor 136. The display area 450 also includes a CF alarm
   454, which signals in response to the CF 454 falling outside of an operator preset range.
   The display area 456 includes a graphic 458 for indicating when a file transfer to the
30 memory card is occurring.
            The display area 460 shows a graphical representation 459 of the degree to which
   each of the batteries 352a-352c (described above with reference to Figure 14) is charged.
   The display area 460 also provides a numerical indication 461 of the amount of time
                                                 -45-

     remaining for which the batteries 352a-352c can continue to run the system 100 in a
     current mode of operation. The display area 462 identifies whether the operator interface
     module 146 is operating in a wireless 464 fashion, along with a graphical representation
     463 of the strength of the wireless connection between the operator interface module 146
  5  and the remainder of the system 100. The display area 462 also provides graphical
     indication 467 of the charge remaining in the operator interface module battery 368
     (described above with reference to Figure 14) and a numerical indication 465 of the
     amount of time remaining for which the operator interface module battery 368 can support
    it in a wireless mode of operation. The display area 466 indicates the flow rate 468 of
10  oxygen from the gas flow chamber 176. It also provides a graphical indication 469 of how
    fuI an onboard oxygen tank is, and a numerical indication 470 of the amount of time
    remaining before the onboard oxygen tank runs out. The display area 472 shows the heart
    rate of the heart 102, and the amount of time 476 for which the heart 102 has been
    cannulated onto the system 100. This field is duplicative of the field 419 mentioned
15  above. The display areas 480 and 482 show the current time and date, respectively, of
    operation of the system 100,
             Actuating a dial (or mouse, or other control device), such as the dial 626 shown in
    Figure 18A, on the operator interface 146 opens a configuration menu 484, such as shown
    in the display screen 401 of Figures 17B. As shown, accessing the configuration menu
20  484 covers the display areas 402 and 410 so they no longer show the graphical depictions
    of the pressure 406 and the heart rate 414, but continue to display critical alpha/numeric
    information. As also shown, all other display areas remain unchanged. This enables an
    operator to adjust operation of the system 100 while continuing to monitor critical
    information. According to one feature, the configuration menu 484 allows the operator to
25  pre-program desired operational parameters for the system 100. Using the display screen
    401, the operator can view/edit working and diastolic (or retrograde) mode alarms by
    selecting the fields 488 and 490, respectively. The operator can set particular ECG and
    LAP graphical options by selecting the fields 492 and 494. Additionally, the operator can
    set oxygen flow rate and perfusion fluid temperature by selecting the fields 496 and 498,
30  respectively. Selecting the field 500 enables the operator to set the time and date, while
    selecting the field 502 enables the operator to select the language in which information is
    displayed. At the bottom of the display field 484, the operator has the option to return 504
                                                 -46-

       to the display screen 400, cancel 506 any changes made to operational settings, save 508
      the changes as new defaults, or reset 510 the operational settings to factory defaults.
               Referring to Figures 17C- 17D, selecting the view/edit working mode alarms field
      488 causes the working mode alarm dialog 512 of Figure 17D to open within the display
   5  field 484 of Figure 17C. The working mode dialog 512 displays the parameters associated
      with normal flow mode (described above with reference to Figures 1 and 3) and includes a
      field for setting numerical thresholds for each of the normal flow mode alarms. More
      specifically, the dialog 512 includes: CF alarm field 514; PAP alarm field 516; AOP alarm
      field 518; LAP alarm field 520; perfusion fluid Temp alarm field 524; Sv0 2 alarm field
 10   526; HCT alarm field 528; and HR alarn field 530. By selecting a particular alarm field
      and actuating the up 532 and/or down 534 arrows, a operator can adjust the acceptable
      upper and/or lower thresholds for each of the parameters associated with each of the
      alarms. The dialog 512 also includes alarm graphics 536a-536i, each of which being
      associated with a particular normal flow mode alann. The operator can enable/disable any
 15   of the above normal flow mode alarms by selecting the associated alarm graphic 536a
      536i. Any changes made using the dialog 512 are reflected in corresponding fields in the
     display screen 400 of Figure 17A.
              Referring to Figures 17A, 17B and 17E, selecting the view/edit non-working mode
     alarms field 490 causes the resting mode alarm dialog 538 of Figure 17E to open within
20   the display field 484 of Figure 17C. The resting mode dialog 538 displays the parameters
     associated with retrograde flow mode (described above with reference to Figures 1 and 4)
     and includes a field for setting numerical thresholds for each of the retrograde flow mode
     alarms. According to the illustrative embodiment, the available alarms for the normal and
     retrograde flow modes are similar, but not necessarily the same. Additionally, even for
25   those that are the same, the thresholds may differ. Accordingly, the invention enables the
     operator to select different alarms and/or different thresholds for each flow mode of
     operation. More specifically, the dialog 538 includes: CF alarm field 540; PAP alarm field
     542; AOF alarm field 544; AOP alarm field 546; LAP alarm field 548; perfusion fluid
     Temp alarm field 550; SvO 2 alarm field 552; HCT alarm field 556; and HR alarm field
30   558. By selecting a particular alarm field and actuating the up 560 and/or down 562
     arrows, an operator can adjust the acceptable numerical upper and/or lower thresholds for
     each of the parameters associated with each of the alanns. The dialog 538 also includes
     alarm graphics 564a-564i, each of which being associated with a particular normal flow
                                                  -47-

       mode alarm. The operator can enable/disable any of the above normal flow mode alarms
       by selecting the associated alarm graphic 564a-564i. As is the case of the dialog 512, any
       changes made using the dialog 538 are reflected in corresponding fields in the display
       screen 400 of Figure 17A. In one implementation, the system 100 may be configured to
   5   automatically switch between sets of alarm limits for a given flow mode upon changing
       the flow mode.
               Referring to Figures 17A, 17B, 17F and 17G, the operator interface 146 also
      provides graphical mechanisms for adjusting various parameters. For example, as noted
      above in reference to Figure 16, one advantage of the user display area 402 is that it allows
  10  the operator to monitor (and adjust) the pumping of the subsystem 153. Display area 410
      identifies the ECG waveform 414 of the heart 102, and display 402 shows in wave form
      406 the pressure of fluid flowing through the aorta. In these two displays the operator can
      monitor the effect of the pumping profile on the heart's EGC 414, which allows the user to
      adjust the stroke volume of the pumping subsystem 153, to adjust the rate of the pumping
 15   subsystem 153 (and thus the flow-rate of the fluid 108 being pumped through the system
      100), to manually impose, or adjust a time of, firing of the subsystem (e.g., by imposing a
      fixed delay between the r-wave 380 and the beginning of the pumping cycle), or to
      automatically program the pumping subsystem 153 to pump at a pre-determined time
      along the heart's ECG waveform 414, as needed to properly fill the heart according to
20   whether the heart is being perfused in retrograde or normal mode. These pumping
     adjustments may be made by use of the various graphical frames of the operator interface
      146. By way of example, in response to a operator selecting the ECG graphic frame
     option 492 located in the display field 484 of the display screen 401, the operator interface
      146 displays the dialog 568 of Figure 17F. The dialog 568 shows a graphical
25   representation 572 of the ECG 414 along with a cursor 570. The position of the cursor 570
     indicates the point at which the pumping subsystem 153 will initiate an output pumping
     stroke (i.e., the portion of the pumping cycle at which the pump motor 106 will push
     perfusion fluid 108 to the heart 102) relative to the ECG 414 of the heart 102. By rotating
     a mechanical knob 626 (shown in Figures 18A and 18B) on the operator interface 146, the
30   operator moves the position of the cursor 570 to adjust when the pumping subsystem 153
     will initiate the output pumping stroke relative to the r-wave pulse 380. As described
     above with regard to Figures 15 and 16, the pumping subsystem 153 receives an r-wave
     signal 380 from the ECG sensors 142 and 144. The pumping subsystem 153 uses the r
                                                  -48-

      wave signal 380 alOng with the pumping adjustment information from the cursor 570 to
      synchronize perfusion fluid pumping with the beating of the heart 102. In another example,
      in response to the operator pressing the pump adjust button 625, the operator interface 146
      displays the dialog 574 of Figure 17G. From the dialog 574, the operator can select the
  5  pointer 576 and rotate the knob 626 to turn the pump motor 106 on and off Additionally,
     the operator can select the bar graphic 578 and rotate the knob 626 to adjust the volume of
     fluid being pumped, which is displayed in liters/minute.
             The operator interface 146 also provides a plurality of warning/reminder messages.
     By way of example, in Figure 1711, the operator interface 146 displays a message to
 10  remind the operator to connect to AC power to recharge the batteries. This message
     appears, for example, in response to the controller 150 detecting an impending low battery
                                                          m essage of Figure 171 to confirm that
     condition. The operator interface 146 displays the
     the user wishes to enter standby mode and to remind the operator to insert a portable
    memory device, such as magnetic or optical disk, a portable disk drive, a flash memory
15   card or other suitable memory device, to download and store information regarding a
     particular use of the system 100. The operator interface 146 displays the error messages,
     such as the error message of Figure 171, in response to an identifiable fault occurring. The
     error messages of Figure 17J include, for example, error information 580 to aid a service
    technician in diagnosing and/or repairing the fault.
20           Having described an illustrative control systems and methods for achieving
    operation of the system 100, illustrative mechanical features of the system 100 will now be
    discussed, along with an illustrative division of components between the single use
    disposable module 634 and multiple use module 650 units. More particularly, Figures
     18A- 1 8B show a mechanical implementation 600 of the system of Figure 1, according to
25  an illustrative embodiment of the invention. As shown, the illustrative implementation
    600 includes a housing 602 and a cart 604. The housing 602 conceptually divides into
    upper 602a and lower 602b housing sections, and includes front 606a, rear 606b, left 606C,
    and right 606d sides. The cart 604 includes a platform 608 and wheels 610a-610d for
    transporting the system 600 from place to place. A latch 603 secures the housing 602 to
30  the cart 604. To further aid in portability, the system 600 also includes a handle 610 hinge
    mounted to the upper section 602a of the left side 606c of the housing 602, along with two
    rigidly mounted handles 612a and 612b mounted on the lower section 602b of the left 606c
    and right 606d sides of the housing 602.
                                                  -49-

             The housing 602 further includes a removable top 614, and a front panel 615
    having an upper panel 613, and a mid panel 616 hinged to a lower panel 617 by hinges
    616a and 616b. The top 614 includes handles 614a and 614b for aiding with removal. In
    the illustrated embodiment, the upper panel 613 is screwed, bolted or otherwise adjoined to
 5  the top 614, such that removal of the top 614 also removes panel 613.
             As shown in Figure 18A, the system 600 includes an AC power cable 618, along
    with a frame 620 for securing the power cable 618, both located on the lower section 602b
    of the left side 606c of the housing 602. A software reset switch 622, also located on the
    lower section 602b of the left side 602c, enables an operator to restart the system software
10  and electronics.
            As shown in Figures 18A and 18B, the implementation 600 also includes the
    operator interface module 146, along with a cradle 623 for holding the operator interface
   module 146. The operator interface module 146 includes a display 624 for displaying
    infonnation to an operator, for example, by way of the display screens of Figures 17A-17J.
15 As mentioned above, the operator interface module 146 also includes a rotatable and
    depressible knob 626 for selecting between the various parameters and display screens of
   Figures 17A-17J. The knob 626 may also be used to set parameters for automatic control
    of the system 100, as well as to provide manual control over the operation of the system
    100. For example, the knob 626 may be used to provide instructions to the controller 150
20 to increase perfusion fluid flow rates, gas flow rates, etc. As also discussed above with
   regard to Figures 1, 14 and 17A-17J, the operator interface module 146 includes its own
   battery 368 and may be removed from the cradle 623 and used in a wireless mode. While
   in the cradle 623, power connections enable the operator interface module 146 to be
   charged. As shown, the operator interface module also includes control buttons 625 for
25 controlling the pump, silencing or disabling alarms, entering or exiting standby mode,
   entering or adjusting ECG synchronization mode, and starting the perfusion clock, which
   initiates the display of data obtained during organ care.
            As shown in Figure 18B, the illustrative implementation 600 also includes a battery
   compartment 628 and an oxygen tank bay 630, both located on the lower section 602b of
30 the right side 606d of the housing 602, As shown, the battery compartment 628 houses the
   three system batteries 352a-352c, described above with regard to Figure 14. According to
   one feature, the battery compartment 626 includes three battery locks 632a-632c. As
                                                -50-

     described above with respect to Figure 14, the battery locks 632a-632c interoperate
     mechanically so that only one of the three batteries 352a-352c may be removed at any
     given time.
             The disposable module 634 and the multiple use unit 650 are constructed of
  5  material that is durable yet light-weight. In some illustrative embodiments, polycarbonate
     plastic is used to fonn one or more of the components of the units 634 and 650. To further
     reduce the weight, the chassis 635 and the multiple use module chassis 602 are formed
     from low weight materials such as, for example, carbon fiber epoxy composites,
    polycarbonate ABS-plastic blend, glass reinforced nylon, acetal, straight ABS, aluminum
10   or magnesium. According to one illustrative embodiment, the weight of the entire system
     600 is less than about 85 pounds, including the multiple use module, heart, batteries, gas
     tank, and priming, nutritional, preservative and perfusion fluids, and less than about 50
    pounds, excluding such items. According to another illustrative embodiment, the weight
    of the disposable module 634 is less than about 12 pounds, excluding any solutions.
15  According to a further illustrative embodiment, the multiple use module 650, excluding all
    fluids, batteries 352a-352c and oxygen supply 172, weighs less than about 50 pounds.
             With continued reference to Figures 19A- 19 C, various views are shown of the
    implementation 600 of Figures 18A and I 8B with the top 614 and upper front panel 613
    removed and the front mid panel 616 open, according to an illustrative embodiment of the
20  invention. With reference to Figures 19A-1 9C, the system 100 is structured as a single use
    disposable module 634 (shown and described in detail below with reference to Figures
    24A-25C) and a multiple use module 650 (shown without the single use module in Figure
    20). As discussed in further detail below, according to one feature of the illustrative
    embodiment, all of the blood contacting components of the system 100 are included in the
25  single use disposable module 634 so that after a use, the entire single use module 634 may
    be discarded, a new module 634 installed, and the system 100 available for use again
    within a very brief amount of time.
             According to the illustrative embodiment, the single use module 634 includes a
    chassis 635 for supporting all of the components of the single use module 634. As
30  described in more detail with regard to Figures 24A-25C, the components of the single use
    module 634 include the organ chamber assembly 104, described above in detail with
    respect to Figures 5A-5F, the perfusion fluid reservoir 160, the oxygenator 114, the
                                                 -51-

      perfusion fluid pump interface 300, and all of the various fluid flow conduits and
      peripheral monitoring components 633.
              As shown in Figures 19A-20A, with the top 614 removed and the front panel 616
      open, an operator has easy access to many of the components of the disposable 634 and
  5  multiple use 650 modules. For example, the operator may install, remove and view the
     levels of the nutrient 116 and preservative 118 supplies of the nutritional subsystem 115.
     The operator may also control operation of the nutrient 116 and preservative 118 infusion
     pump 182. The operator may also cannulate an organ, such as the heart 102, into the organ
     chamber assembly 104. As described in detail below with reference to Figures 21A-21C,
 10  this, configuration also provides the operator with sufficient access to install and/or remove
     the single use module 634 to/from the multiple use module 650.
              Figure 20A shows a front perspective view of the multiple use module 650 with the
     single use module 634 removed. As shown, the multiple use module 650 includes: the
     cart 604; the lower section 602b of the housing 602, along with all of the components
15   externally mounted to it, along with those contained therein (described in further detail
     below, with reference to Figures 21A-21C and 23A-23C); the upper section 602a of the
     housing 602 and all of the components externally mounted to it, including the top cover
     614, the handles 610, 612a, and 612b, and the front panel 616; the operator interface
     module 146; and the perfusion fluid pump motor assembly 106. As described in detail
20  below with reference to Figures 21A-21 C, the multiple use module 650 also includes a
    bracket assembly 638 for receiving and locking into place the single use module 534.
             As shown in Figure 20A and described in further detail below with reference to
    Figures 22A-22C, the multiple use module 650 also includes a front-end interface circuit
    board 636 for interfacing with a front-end circuit board (shown in Figure 24D at 637) of
25  the disposable module 634. As also described in detail with reference to Figures 22A-22C,
    power and drive signal connections between the multiple use module 650 and the
    disposable module 634 are made by way of corresponding electromechanical connectors
    640 and 647 on the front end interface circuit board 636 and the front end circuit board
    637, respectively. By way of example, the front-end circuit board 637 receives power for
30  the disposable module 634 from the front-end interface circuit board 636 via the
    electromechanical connectors 640 and 647. The front end circuit board 637 also receives
    drive signals for various components (e.g., the heater assembly 110, and the oxygenator
                                                 -52-

        114) from the controller 150 via the front-end interface circuit board 636 and the
       electromechanical connectors 640 and 647. The front-end circuit board 637 and the front
       end interface circuit board 636 exchange control and data signals (e.g., between the
       controller 150 and the disposable module 134) by way of optical connectors (shown in
   5   Figure 22B at 648). As described in more detail with reference to Figures 22A-22F, the
       connector configuration employed between the front-end 637 and front-end interface 636
       circuit boards ensures that critical power and data interconnections between the single and
       multiple use modules 634 and 650, respectively, continue to operate even during transport
       over rough terrain, such as may be experienced during organ transport.
 10            As shown in Figure 20A, according to another feature, the upper section 602a of
      the housing 602 includes a fluid tight basin 652, which is configured to capture any
      perfusion fluid 108 and/or nutritional 116 and/or preservative 118 solution that may
      inadvertently leak. The basin 652 also prevents any leaked fluid 108 or solution 116/118
      from passing into the lower section 602b of the housing 602. In this way, the basin 652
 15   shields the electronic components of the system 100 from any such leaked fluid 108 or
      solution 116/118. Shielded components include, for example, the power board 720 shown
     in and discussed in further detail below with reference to Figures 23C and 23D. The basin
     652 includes a section 658, which extends over and shields the perfusion fluid pump'106
     from any inadvertently leaked fluid. According to another feature, the basin 652 is sized to
20   accommodate the entire volume of perfusion fluid 108 (including the maintenance
     solutions 116/118) contained within the system 100 at any particular time.
               Referring also to Figure 20B, according to a further feature of the illustrative
     embodiment, an outer side 659 of the pump covering portion 658 of the basin 652 includes
     a slot 660. As described in further detail below with reference to Figures 21A-21C and
25   24A, the slot 660 engages with a projection 662 on the single use module 634 during
     installation of the single use module 634 into the multiple use module 650.
              Turning now to the installation of the single use module 634 into the multiple use
     module 650, Figure 21A shows a detailed view of the above-mentioned bracket assembly
     638 located on the multiple use module 650 for receiving and locking into place the single
30   use module 634. Figure 21B shows a side perspective view of the single use module 634
     being installed onto the bracket assembly 638 and into the multiple use module 650, and
     Figure 21 C shows a side view of the single use module 634 installed within the multiple
                                                   -53-

        use module 650. With reference to Figures 21A and 21B, the bracket assembly 638
        includes two mounting brackets 642a and 642b, which mount to an internal side of a back
        panel 654 of the upper housing section 602a via mounting holes 644a-644d and 646a
        646d, respectively. A cross bar 641 extends between and rotatably attaches to the
   5   mounting brackets 642a and 642b. Locking arms 643 and 645 are spaced apart along and
       radially extend from the cross bar 641. Each locking arm 643 and 645 includes a
       respective downward extending locking projection 643a and 645b. A lever 639 attaches to
       and extends radially upward from the cross bar 641. Actuating the lever 639 in the
       direction of the arrow 651 rotates the locking arms 643 and 645 toward the back 606b of
  10   the housing 602. Actuating the lever 639 in the direction of the arrow 653 rotates the
       looking arms 643 and 645 toward the front 606a of the housing 602.
               As described above with respect to Figure 10, the perfusion pump interface
       assembly 300 includes four projecting heat staking points 321a-321d. As shown in Figure
      24A, during assembly, the projections 32la-321d are aligned with corresponding apertures
 15   657a-657d and heat staked through the apertures 657a-657d into the projections 321a-321d
      to rigidly mount the outer side 304 of the pump interface assembly 300 onto the C-shaped
      bracket 656 of the single use module chassis 635.
               With reference to Figures 10, 20B, 21A, 21B and 24A, during installation, in a first
      step, the single use module 634 is lowered into the multiple use module 650 while tilting
 20  the single use module 634 forward (shown in Figure 21B). This process slides the
     projection 662 of Figure 24A into the slot 660 of Figure 20B. As shown in Figure 10, it
     also positions the flange 328 of the pump interface assembly 300 within the docking port
     342 of the perfusion pump assembly 106, and the tapered projections 323a and 323b of the
     pump interface assembly 300 on the clockwise side of corresponding ones of the features
25   344a and 344b of the pump assembly bracket 346. In a second step, the single use module
     634 is rotated backwards until locking arm cradles 672 and 674 of the single use module
     chassis 635 engage projections 643 and 645 of spring-loaded locking arm 638, forcing the
     projections 643 and 645 to rotate upward (direction 651), until locking projections 643a
     and 645a clear the height of the locking arm cradles 672 and 674, at which point the
30   springs cause the locking arm 638 to rotate downward (direction 653), allowing locking
     projections 643a and 645a to releasably lock with locking ann cradles 672 and 674 of the
     disposable module chassis 635. This motion causes the curved surface of 668 of the
     disposable module chassis projection 662 of Figure 24A to rotate and engage with a flat
                                                  -54-

        side 670 of the basin slot 660 of Figure 20B. Lever 639 can be used to rotate the locking
       arm 638 upwards (direction 651) to release the single use module 635.
                As shown in Figure 10, this motion also causes the pump interface assembly 300 to
       rotate in a counterclockwise direction relative to the pump assembly 106 to slide the flange
   5   328 into the slot 332 of the docking port 342, and at the same time, to slide the tapered
       projections 323a and 323b under the respective bracket features 344a and 344b. As the.
       tapered projections 323a and 323b slide under the respective bracket features 344a and
       344b, the inner surfaces of the bracket features 344a and 344b engage with the tapered
       outer surfaces of the tapered projections 323a and 323b to draw the inner side 306 of the
 10   pump interface assembly 300 toward the pump driver 334 to form the fluid tight seal
      between the pump interface assembly 300 and the pump assembly 106. The lever 639 may
      lock in place to hold the disposable module 634 securely within the mltpie use module
      650.
               As mentioned briefly above with reference to Figure 20A, interlocking the single
 15   use module 374 into the multiple use module 650 forms both electrical and optical
      interconnections between the front end interface circuit board 636 on the multiple use
      module 650 and the front end circuit board 637 on the single use module 634. The
      electrical and optical connections enable the multiple use module 650 to power, control
      and collect information from the single module 634. Figure 22A is a conceptual drawing
20    showing various optical couplers and electromechanical connectors on the front end circuit
     board 637 of the single-use disposable module 634 used to communicate with
      corresponding optical couplers and electromechanical connectors on the front end interface
      circuit board 636 of the multiple use module 650. Since this correspondence is one for
     one, the various optical couplers and electromechanical connectors are described only with
25   reference to the front end circuit board 637, rather than also depicting the front end circuit
     board 650.
              According to the illustrative embodiment, the front end circuit board 637 receives
     signals from the front end interface circuit board 636 via both optical couplers and
     electromechanical connectors. For example, the front end circuit board 637 receives
30   power 358 (also shown in Figure 14) from the front end interface circuit board 636 via the
     electromechanical connectors 712 and 714. The front end circuit board 637 the power to
     the components of the single use module 634, such as the various sensors and transducers
     of the single use module 634. Optionally, the front end circuit board 637 converts the
                                                   -55-

        power to suitable levels prior to distribution. The front end interface circuit board 636 also
        provides the heater drive signals 281a and 281b of Figure 13 to the applicable connections
        282a on the heater 246 of Figure 6E via the electromechanical connectors 704 and 706.
        Similarly, the electromechanical connectors 708 and 710 couple the heater drive signals
    5   283a and 283b of Figure 13 to the applicable connections in 282b of the heater 248. The
        front-end circuit board 637 may receive a defibrillation command from the front end
        interface circuit board 636 via the electromechanical connector 687. In response, the front
        end circuit board 637 generates the defibrillation signal 143 having suitable current and
        voltage levels, and as shown in Figure SE, couples the signal 143 to the organ chamber
  10    assembly 104 via the electrical interface connections 235a-235b.
                In another illustrative embodiment, the defibrillation command can be provided
       from an external source (not shown), rather than through the circuit board 636. As an .
       example, and with reference to Figure 5E and Figure 1, an external defibrillation device
       can be plugged into the electrical coupler 613 shown in Figure 24E, which is connected to
  15   the electrical interface connections 235a-235b. The external defibrillation device sends a
       defibrillation signal 143 through the coupler 613 and the interface connections 235a and
       235b to electrodes 142 and 144. The electrodes 142 and 144 then deliver the signal 143 to
       the heart 102. This alternative embodiment allows the user to provide defibrillation (and
       pacing) without passing the signal 143 through the circuit boards 618, 636, and 637. An
 20    exemplary external defibrillation device may include the Zoll M-Series Portable
       Defibrillator.
               According to the illustrative embodiment, the front end circuit board 637 receives
       signals from temperature, pressure, fluid flow-rate, oxygentation/hematocrit and ECG
       sensors, amplifies the signals, converts the signals to a digital format and provides them to
 25   the front-end interface circuit board 636 by way of optical couplers. For example, the
      front end circuit board 637 provides the temperature signal 121 from the sensor 120 on the
      heater plate 250 (shown in Figures 6A and 13) to the front end interface circuit board 636
      by way of the optical coupler 676. Similarly, the front end circuit board 637 provides the
      temperature signal 123 from the sensor 122 on the heater plate 252 (shown in Figures 6A
.30   and 13) to the front end interface circuit board 636 by way of the optical coupler 678. The
      front end circuit board 637 also provides the perfusion fluid temperature signals 125 and
      127 from the thennistor sensor 124 (shown in Figures 6A and 13) to the front end interface
      circuit board 636 via respective optical couplers 680 and 682. Perfusion fluid pressure
                                                    -56-

      signals 129, 131 and 133 are provided from respective pressure transducers 126, 128 and
      13 0 to the front end interface circuit board 636 via respective optical couplers 688, 690
      and 692. The front end circuit board 637 also provides perfusion fluid flow rate signals
      135, 137 and 139 from respective flow rate sensors 134, 136 and 138 to the front end
  5   interface circuit board 636 by way of respective optical couplers 694, 696 and 698.
     Additionally, the front end circuit board 637 provides the oxygen saturation 141 and
     hematocrit 145 signals from the oxygen saturation sensor 140 to the front end interface
     circuit board 636 by way of respective optical couplers 700 and 702.
              In other illustrative embodiments, one or more of the foregoing sensors are wired
10   directly to the main system board 718 (described below with reference to Figure 23D) for
     processing and analysis, thus by-passing the front-end interface board 636 and front-end
     board 637 altogether. Such embodiments may be desirable where the user prefers to re-use
     one or more of the sensors prior to disposal. In one such example, the flow rate'sensors
     134, 136 and 138 and the oxygen and hematocrit sensor 140 are electrically coupled
15   directly to the system main board 718 through electrical coupler 611 shown in Figure 23C,
     thus by-passing any connection with the circuit boards 636 and 637.
              As described above with respect to Figures 11-16, the controller 150 employs the
     signals provided to the front end interface circuit board 636, along with other signals, to
    transmit data and otherwise control operation of the system 100. As described with respect
20  to Figures 17A-17J, the controller 150 also displays sensor information, and may display
    to the operator various alarms relating to the sensor information by way of the operator
    interface module 146.
              Figure 22B illustrates the operation of an exemplary electromechanical connector
    pair of the type employed for the electrical interconnections between the circuit boards 636
25   and 637. Similarly, Figure 22C illustrates the operation of an optical coupler pair of the
    type employed for the optically coupled interconnections between the circuit boards 636
    and 637. One advantage of both the electrical connectors and optical couplers employed is
    that they ensure connection integrity, even when the system 100 is being transported over
    rough terrain, for example, such as being wheeled along a tarmac at an airport, being
30  transported in an aircraft during bad weather conditions, or being transported in an
    ambulance over rough roadways. Additionally, the optical couplers electrically isolate the
    temperature, pressure and ECG sensors from the rest of the system 100, which prevents a
                                                   -57-

       defibrillation signal from damaging the system 100. The power for the front end board
       637 is isolated in a DC power supply located on the front end interface board 636.
               As shown in Figure 22B, the electromechanical connectors, such as the connector
       704, include a portion, such as the portion 703, located on the front end interface circuit
   5  board 636 and a portion, such as the portion 705, located on the front end circuit board
       637. The portion 703 includes an enlarged head 703a mounted on a substantially straight
      and rigid stem 703b. The head 703 includes an outwardly facing substantially flat surface
      708. The portion 705 includes a substantially straight and rigid pin 705 including an end
      705a for contacting the surface 708 and a spring-loaded end 705b. Pin 705 can move
 10   axially in and out as shown by the directional arrow 721 while still maintaining electrical
      contact with the surface 708 of the enlarged head 703a. This feature enables the single use
      module 634 to maintain electrical contact with the multiple use module 650 even when
      experiencing mechanical disturbances associated with transport over rough terrain. An
      advantage of the flat surface 708 is that it allows for easy cleaning of the interior surface of
 15   the multiple use module 650. According to the illustrative embodiment, the system 100
      employs a connector for the electrical interconnection between the single use disposable
      634 and multiple use 650 modules. An exemplary connector is part no. 101342 made by
      MIterconnect Devices. However, any suitable connector may be used.
              Optical couplers, such as the optical couplers 684 and 687 of the front end circuit
20    board 637, are used and include corresponding counterparts, such as the optical couplers
      683 and 685 of the front end interface circuit board 636. The optical transmitters and
      optical receiver portions of the optical couplers may be located on either circuit board 636
      or 637. For example, in the case of the ECG signal 379, the optical transmitter 684 is
     located on the circuit board 637 for receiving the electrical signal 379 and optically
25    coupling it to the optical receiver 683 on the circuit board 636. In the case where the
     defibrillator signal is transmitted through the circuit boards 636 and 637 (rather than
     directly to the main board 718), the optical transmitter 685 on the circuit board 636
     optically couples the signal to the optical receiver 687 on the circuit board 637.
              As in the case of the electromechanical connectors employed, allowable tolerance
30   in the optical alignment between the optical transmitters and corresponding optical
     receivers enables the circuit boards 636 and 637 to remain in optical communication even
     during transport over rough terrain. According to the illustrative embodiment, the system
                                                    -58-

     100 uses optical couplers made under part nos. SFH485P and/or SFH203PFA by Osram.
    However, any suitable coupler may be used.
             The couplers and connectors facilitate the transmission of data within the system
    100. The front-end interface circuit board 636 and the front-end board 637 transmit data
 5  pertaining to the system 100 in a paced fashion. As shown in Figure 22C, circuit board
    636 transmits to the front-end board 637 a clock signal that is synchronized to the clock on
    the controller 150. The front-end circuit board 637 receives this clock signal and uses it to
    synchronize its transmission of system data (such as temperatures, pressures, BCG, r-wave
    detection, or other desired information) with the clock cycle of the controller 150. This
10  data is digitized by a processor on the front-end circuit board 637 according to the clock
    signal and a pre-set sequence of data type and source address (i.e. type and location of the
   sensor providing the data). The front-end interface circuit board 636 receives the data
   from the front-end board 637 and transmits the data set to the main board 618 for use by
   the controller 150 in evaluation, display, and system control, as described above with
15 reference to Figures 11, 12 and 14. Additional optical couplers can be added between the
   multiple use module and single use module for transmission of control data from the
   multiple use module to the single use module, such data including heater control signals or
   pump control signals.
            Having described the mechanical, electrical and optical interconnections between
20 the single use module 634 and the multiple use module 650, additional components of the
   multiple use module 650 will now be discussed with respect to Figures 23A-23D, followed
   by a description of the mechanical arrangement of the components of the single use
   module 634 with respect to Figures 24A-28C. As shown in Figures 23A-23D, with the
   walls of the housing 602 removed, in addition to those components previously discussed,
25 the multiple use module 650 includes an on-board gas supply 172, located in the lower
   section 602b of the housing 602. The gas supply 172 is depicted in Figures 23A-23D as a
   tank, positioned within the gas tank bay 630 by a support structure 712, which abuts the
   tank 172. Optionally, the gas supply 172 may be further secured within the gas tank bay
   630 by a strap and buckle assembly 714 or other suitable mechanism. With particular
30 reference to Figure 23B and as described above with reference to Figure 1, the gas supply
    172 provides gas to the system 100 through the gas regulator 174 and the gas flow
   chamber 176. The gas pressure sensor 132 measures the gas pressure in the gas supply
   172, and the gas pressure gauge 178 provides a visual indication of the fullness of the gas
                                                 -59-

     supply 112. Additionally, an electrical connection between the controller 150 and the gas
     flow chamber 176 enables the controller 150 to regulate automatically the gas flow into the
     oxygenator 114.
             As shown most clearly in Figure 23C, the battery bay 628 houses the batteries
  5  352a-352c, As noted above with reference to Figure 14, a lock-out mechanism is used to
    prevent more than one of the batteries 352a-3 52c from being removed from the battery bay
     628 at a given time while the system 100 is operating.
             As discussed above, the system 100 includes a plurality of interconnected circuit
    boards for facilitating power distribution and data transmission to, from and within the
 10 system 100. Particularly, as discussed above with reference to Figures 22A-22E and as
    shown in Figure 23C, the multiple use module 650 includes a front end interface circuit
    board 636, which optically and electromechanically couples to the front end circuit board
    637 of the single use module 650. As also shown in Figure 23C, the system 100 further
    includes a main board 718, a power circuit board 720, and a battery interface board 711
15  located on the multiple use module 650. The main board 718 is configured to allow the
    system 100 to be fault tolerant, in that if a fault arises in the operation of a given circuit
    board (as shown in Figure 23D), the main board 718 saves pumping and heating
    parameters in non-volatile memory. When the system 100 reboots, it can re-capture and
    continue to perform according to such parameters.
20          Referring to the conceptual drawing of Figure 23D, cabling 731 brings power (such
    as AC power 351) from a power source 350 to the power circuit board 720 by way of
    connectors 744 and 730. The power supply 350 converts the AC power to DC power and
    distributes the DC power as described above with reference to the power subsystem of
    Figure 14. Referring also to Figures 14 and 22A, the power circuit board 720 couples DC
25  power and a data signal 358 via respective cables 727 and 729 from the connectors 726
    and 728 to corresponding connectors 713 and 715 on the front end interface circuit board
    636. Cable 729 carries both power and a data signal to the front end interface board 636.
    Cable 727 caries power to the heater 110 via the front-end interface board 636. The
    connectors 713 and 715 interfit with corresponding connectors 712 and 714 (described
30  above with respect to Figure 22A) on the front end circuit board 637 on the single use
    module 634 to provide power to the single use module 634.
                                                   -60-

           As shown in Figure 23D, the power circuit board 720 also provides DC power 358
   and a data signal from the connectors 732 and 734, respectively, on the power circuit board
   720 to corresponding connectors 736 and 738 on the main circuit board 718 by way of the
   cables 733 and 735. Referring also to Figures 14 and 19A, the cable 737 couples DC
 5 power 358 and a data signal from a connector 740 on the main circuit board 718 to the
   operator interface module 146 by way of a connector 742 on the operator interface module
   cradle 623. The power circuit board 720 also provides DC power 358 and a data signal
   froma connectors 745 and 747 via cables 741 and 743 to connectors 749 and 751 on a
   battery interface board 711. Cable 741 carries the DC power signal and cable 743 carries
10 the data signal. Battery interface board 711 distributes DC power and data to batteries
   352a, 352b and 352c. Batteries 352a, 352b and 352e contain electronic circuits that allow
   them to communicate with each other to monitor the respective charges, as described.
   above in reference to Figure 14, so that the controller 150 can monitor and control the
   charging and discharging of the batteries 352a-352c.
15         According to some illustrative embodiments, the controller 150 is located on the
   main circuit board 718 and performs all control and processing required by the system 100.
   However, in other illustrative embodiments, the controller 150 is distributed, locating
   some processing functionality on the front end interface circuit board 636, some on the
   power circuit board 720, and/or some in the operator interface module 146. Suitable
20 cabling is provided between the various circuit boards, depending on whether and the
   degree to which the controller 150 is distributed within the system 100.
           As described above with reference to Figures 19A-19C and 23A-23C, the system
   100 mechanically divides into the single use disposable module 634 and the multiple use
   module 650. As also described above, according to the illustrative embodiment, the single
25 use module 634 includes all or substantially all of the perfusion fluid 108 contacting
   elements/assemblies of the system 100, along with various peripheral components, flow
   conduits, sensors and support electronics for operating the blood contacting components.
   As discussed above with reference to Figures 22A and 23D, according to the illustrative
   embodiment, the module 634 does not include a processor, instead relying on the
30 controller 150, which may, for example, be distributed between the front end interface
   circuit board 636, the power circuit board 720, the operator interface module 146, and the
   main circuit board 718, for control. However, in other illustrative embodiments, the single
                                                -61-

       use module 634 may include its own controller/processor, for example, on the front end
       circuit board 637.
               Referring to Figures 24A-28C, the single use module 634 will next be described in
      terms of the components included therein, After that, exemplary forward and retrograde
   5  flow modes are traced through the described components.
               Referring first to Figure 24A, the disposable module 634 includes a chassis 635
      having upper 750a and lower 750b sections. The upper section 750a includes a platform
      752 for supporting various components. The lower section 750b supports the platform 752
      and includes structures for pivotably connecting with the multiple use module 650. More
 10   particularly, the lower chassis section 750b includes the C-shaped mount 656 for rigidly
      mounting the perfusion fluid pump interface assembly 300, and the projection 662 for
      sliding into and snap fitting with the slot 660 of Figure 20B. The lower chassis section
      750b also provides structures for mounting the oxygenator 114. As showrdin Figures 25A
      and 25C, the lower section 750b further includes structures for mounting the heater
 is   assembly 110. Additionally, the reservoir 160 mounts to the underside of the platform 725
      and extends into the lower chassis section 750b. Various sensors, such as the 02 saturation
      and hematocrit sensor 140 (shown in Figure 24A and described in detail below with
     reference to Figures 28A-28C), the flow rate sensor 136 (shown in Figure 24A), the flow
     rate sensor 138 (shown in Figure 25B), are located within and/or mount to the lower
20   chassis section 750b. The flow pressure compliance chamber 188 (shown in Figure 25B)
     is also located in the lower chassis section 750b. As shown in Figure 24D, the lower
     chassis section 750b also mounts the front end circuit board 637. Conduits located in the
     lower chassis section 750b are described in further detail below with reference to the
     normal and retrograde flow paths through the single use module 634.
25            Referring to Figures 24A-25C, and as mentioned above, the upper chassis section
     750a includes the platform 752. The platform 752 includes handles 752a and 752b formed
     therein to assist in installing and removing the single use module 634 from the multiple use
     module 650. Alternatively, such handles can be located on the platform 757 to allow for
     easier accessibility during installation of the single use module into the multiple use
30   module. As shown most clearly in Figure 24C, an angled platform 757 mounts onto the
     platform 752. The organ chamber assembly 104 mounts to the angled platform 757.
     According to the illustrative embodiment, with the single use module 634 installed within
                                                   -62-

   the multiple Use module 650, the platform 757 is angled at about 10* to about 80' relative
   to horizontal, to provide an optimal angle of operation for the heart 102 when placed
   within the organ chamber assembly 104. In sonic illustrative embodiments, the platform
   757 is angled at about 20* to about 60*, or about 30* to about 50* relative to horizontal.
 5 The flow mode selector valve 112, the flow rate sensor 134, and the perfusion fluid flow
   pressure compliance chambers 184 and 186 also mount onto the angled platform 757.
            Referring to Figure 24E, several fluid ports mount to the platform 752. For
   example, a fluid sampling port 754 enables an operator to sample the flow into and/or out
   of the aorta 158 via the cannulation interface 162 on the organ chamber assembly 104. A
10 fluid sampling port 755 enables the operator to sample the flow into the left atrium 152 via
   the interface 170 on the organ chamber assembly 104. Additionally, a fluid port 758
   enables the operator to sample the coronary flow out of the pulmonary artery 164 via the
   pulmonary artery interface 166 on the organ chamber 104. According to the illustrative
   embodiment, the operator turns the a respective valve 754a, 755a or 758a to obtain flow
15 from the sampling ports 754, 755 and 758. Flow from the particular port selected is
   provided at a single common outlet 764. According to one feature, only flow from the left
   most port selected is provided at the outlet 764. By way of example, if the operator opens
   both ports 755 and 758, only flow from port 755 is provided at the outlet 764, In this way,
   system 100 reduces the likelihood of an operator mixing samples from multiple ports.
20         The single use module 634 also includes a general injection port 762, operable with
   the valve 762a, for enabling the operator to inject medication into the perfusion fluid 108,
   for example, via the reservoir 160. Both the sampling 764 and injection 762 ports mount
   to the platform 752. Also located on the upper chassis section 750a is an infusion port
   766, operable with the valve 766a, for flowing the nutritional 116 and preservative 118
25 fluids into the perfusion fluid 108. The upper chassis section 750a also includes a tube 774
   for loading the exsauguinated blood from the donor into the reservoir 160. As shown in
   Figure 24D, the single use module 634 also includes non-vented caps 776 for replacing
   vented caps on selected fluid ports that are used while running a sterilization gas through
   the single use module 634 during sterilization. Preferably, such sterilization takes place
30 prior to packaging the single use module 634 for sale.
           The upper chassis section 750a also includes the flow clamp 190 for regulating
   back pressure applied to the left atrium 152 when the heart 102 is cannulated and operating
                                                -63-

       in normal flow mode in the organ chamber assembly 104. The upper chassis section 750a
       further includes a tricIde valve 768. The trickle valve 768 may be opened and closed with
       the handle 768a to regulate a small fluid flow to the left atrium 152 to moisten the left
       atrium 152 during retrograde flow mode. The upper chassis section 750a also includes
   5  ports 770 for infusion of additional solutions and 772 for purging the oxygenator 114,
       operable with respective valves 770a and 772a.
               As shown most clearly in Figures 24A and 24D, the upper chassis section 750
      further includes the flow pressure probes 126, 128 and 130. As described above with
      reference to Figure 1, the probe 126 measures the pressure of the perfusion fluid 108
 10   flowing into/out of the aorta 158. The probe 128 measures the pressure of the perfusion
      fluid 108 flowing into the left atrium 152 through the pulmonary vein 168. The probe 130
      measures the pressure of the perfusion fluid 108 flowing out of the pulmonary artery 164.
      Each probe includes a respective connector 126a, 128a and 130a (shown shortened for
      clarity) for coupling a respective signal 129, 131, and 133 to the front end circuit board
 15   637.
              Referring particularly to the single use module 654 cross-sectional side view of
     Figure 24C, the reservoir 160 includes several components. More specifically, the
     reservoir 160 includes four inlets: 782, 784, 786 and 788. The inlet 782 transfers perfusion
     fluid 108 from the drain 201 of the organ chamber 194 into the reservoir 160. The inlet
20   784 receives exsanguinated blood from the tube 774. The inlet 786 receives oxygenated
     perfusion fluid 108 from the oxygenator 114, and the inlet 788 receives perfusion fluid 108
     out of the aorta 158 via the back pressure clamp 190. The reservoir 160 also has an outlet
     790, which provides the perfusion fluid to the one way inlet valve 191. The reservoir 160
     further includes a defoamer 778 and a filter 780. The defoamer 778 removes bubbles out
25   of the perfusion fluid 108 as it enters the reservoir 160. According to the illustrative
     embodiment, the defoamer is made of porous polyurethane foam with an antifoam coating.
     The filter 780 is a polyester felt, which filters debris, blood particles, emboli, and air
     bubbles out of the perfusion fluid as it enters the reservoir 160.
              As mentioned above in the summary, the 02 saturation and hematocrit sensor 140
30   employed in the single use module 634 includes important advantages over prior art
     approaches. Figures 28A-28C depict an illustrative embodiment of the 02 saturation and
     hematocrit sensor 140 of the invention. As shown in Figure 28A, the sensor 140 includes
                                                    -64-

       ari in-line cuvette shaped section of tube 812 connected to the conduit 798, which has at
       least one optically clear window through which an infrared sensor can provide infrared
       light. Exemplary sensors used in the in-line cuvette-shaped tube 812 are those made by
       Datamed, BLOP4. As shown in the cross-sectional view of Figure 28B, the cuvette 812 is a
   5   one-piece molded part having connectors 801a and 801b. The connectors 801a and 801b
       are configured to adjoin to connecting receptacles 803a and 803b, respectively, of conduit
       ends 798a and 798b. This interconnection between cuvette 812 and conduit ends 798a and
       798b is configured so as to provide a substantially constant cross-sectional flow area inside
       conduit 798 and cuvette 812. The configuration thereby reduces, and in some
 10    embodiments substantially removes, discontinuities at the interfaces 814a and 814b
      between the cuvette 812 and the conduit 798. Reduction/removal of the discontinuities
      enables the blood based perfusion fluid 108 to flow through the cuvette with reduced
      lysing of red blood cells and reduced turbulence, which enables a more accurate reading of
      perfusion fluid oxygen levels. This also reduces damage to the perfusion fluid 108 by the
 15   system 100, which ultimately reduces damage done to the heart 102 while being perused
      by the system 100.
               According to the illustrative embodiment, the cuvette 812 is formed from a light
     transmissive material, such as any suitable light transmissive glass or polymer. As shown
      in Figure 28A, the sensor 140 also includes an optical transceiver 816 for directing light
20    waves at perfusion fluid 108 passing through the cuvette 812 and for measuring light
     transmission and/or light reflectance to determine the amount of oxygen in the perfusion
      fluid 108. As illustrated in Figure 28C, in some embodiments a light transmitter is located
      on one side of the cuvette 812 and a detector for measuring light transmission through the
     perfusion fluid 108 is located on an opposite side of the cuvette 812. Figure 28C depicts a
25   top cross-sectional view of the cuvette 812 and the transceiver 816. The transceiver 816
     fits around cuvette 812 such that transceiver interior flat surfaces 811 and 813 mate against
     cuvette flat surfaces 821 and 823, respectively, while the interior convex surface 815 of
     transceiver 816 mates with the cuvette 812 convex surface 819. In operation, when uv
     light is transmitted from the transceiver 816, it travels from flat surface 811 through the
30   fluid 108 inside cuvette 812, and is received by flat surface 813. The flat surface 813 may
     be configured with a detector for measuring the light transmission through the fluid 108.
               The fluid flow path through the single use module 634 in both normal and
     retrograde flow modes will now be described with reference to Figures 24A-24D and
                                                   -65-

      Figure 25A. As described above with reference to Figures 1-4, the system 100 can
      maintain the heart 102 in two modes of operation; a normal flow mode, shown in Figure 3,
      and a retrograde flow mode shown in Figure 4. As mentioned above with regard to Figure
      1, to change between normal and retrograde flow modes, the system 100 provides the flow
  5   mode selector valve 112, shown in detail in Figures 26A and 26B. To operate in normal
      flow mode, the operator sets the flow mode selector valve handle I12e to the position
     indicated in Figure 24A. This has the effect of aligning the flow paths through the selector
     valve 112 as shown in Figure 26A, Specifically, in normal flow mode, fluid can flow into
     port 112b, through the flow channel 112f and out the port 112c. Additionally, fluid can
 10  flow into port 112d, through the flow channel 112g and out the port 112a. To operate in
     retrograde flow mode, the operator sets the flow mode selector valve handle 112e to the
     position indicated in Figure 24B. This has the effect of aligning the flow paths through the
     selector valve 112 as shown in Figure 26B. Specifically, in retrograde flow mode, fluid
     can flow into port 112b, through the flow channel I 12h and out the port 112d.
 15           Referring to Figure 24A, in normal flow mode, the reservoir 160 provides the
     perfusion fluid 108 to the one way inlet valve 191 of the perfusion pump interface
     assembly 300. Referring to Figure 25A, the perfusion pump 106 pumps the perfusion fluid
     108 out the outlet valve 310. Referring to Figure 25C, the perfusion fluid 108 then flows
    through the conduit 792 and the compliance chamber 188 and into the inlet 110a of the
20  heater assembly 110. The heater assembly 110 heats the perfusion fluid 108 and then
    flows it out the heater outlet 110b. Referring to Figure 24A, the heated perfusion fluid 108
    flows from the heater outlet 110b in the lower chassis section 750b through the chassis
    plate 752 and into the port 112b of the mode select valve 112 via the conduit 794.
    Referring also to Figure 24D, the perfusion fluid 108 flows out the mode valve port 112c,
25  through the compliance chamber 186, the conduit 796, and the pressure sensor 128 into the
    pulmonary vein cannulation interface 170 on the organ chamber assembly 104.
             Referring to Figure 24A, in normal flow mode, the heart 102 pumps the perfusion
    fluid 108 out the pulmonary artery 164 through the pulmonary artery interface 166 and the
    pressure sensor 130. The conduit 796 then flows the perfusion fluid 108 from the
30  pulmonary artery interface 166 through the plate 752 and through the 02 saturation and
    hematocrit sensor 140. Referring also to Figures 25A and 25C, the conduit 798 then flows
    the perfusion fluid 108 from the sensor 140 through the flow-rate sensor 136 into the
                                                -66-

        oxygenator 114. The conduit 800 flows the perfusion fluid 108 from the oxygenator 114
       back into the reservoir 160 by way of the reservoir inlet 786.
                Referring to Figures 24A, 24D and 24E, in normal flow mode, the heart 102 also
       pumps the perfusion fluid 108 out of the aorta 158 through the aorta interface 162 and the
   5   pressure sensor 126. The conduit 802 flows the perfusion fluid 108 from the pressure
       sensor 126 through the flow rate sensor 134 and back into the port 112d on the flow mode
       selector valve 112. A clamp 804 holds the conduit 802 in place. A conduit 806 flows the
       perfusion fluid 108 out the port 1 12a from the flow mode selector valve 112 through the
       compliance chamber 184 and the back pressure adjustment clamp 190. As mentioned
  10   above, the clamp 190 may be adjusted to restrict flow through the conduit 806 to adjust the
       back pressure seen by the aorta 158 during normal flow mode to more realistically
       simulate normal physiologic conditions. The compliance chamber 184, which can expand
       and contract as perfusion fluid 108 is pumped into and out of it, interoperates with the
      clamp 190 to dampen flow pressure spikes to further improve simulation of near-normal
 15   physiologic conditions. The after-load clamp 190 is configured to closely emulate
      systemic vascular resistance of the human body which affects aortic pressure, left atrial
      pressure, and coronary flow. A conduit 808 returns the perfusion fluid 108 into the
      reservoir 160 by way of the reservoir inlet 788.
              In retrograde flow mode, the flow mode selector valve 112 is positioned as shown
20   in Figure 24B. Referring to Figure 24B, the reservoir 160 provides the perfusion fluid 108
     to the inlet valve 191. As shown in Figure 25A, the perfusion pump 106 pumps the
     perfusion fluid 108 out the outlet valve 310. As shown in Figure 25C, the perfusion fluid
      108 then flows through the conduit 792 and the compliance chamber 188 and into the inlet
      11 0a of the heater assembly 110. The heater assembly 110 heats the perfusion fluid 108
25   and then flows it out the heater outlet 11 Ob. Referring to Figure 24B, the heated perfusion
     fluid 108 flows from the heater outlet 1IOb in the lower chassis section 750b through the
     chassis plate 752 and into the input I 12b of the mode select valve 112 via the conduit 794.
     Referring also to Figure 24D, the perfusion fluid 103 flows out the mode valve outlet
     112d, into the conduit 802, through the flow rate sensor 134, the pressure sensor 126 and
30   into the aorta 158 via the aorta interface 162. The perfusion fluid 108 then flows through
     the coronary sinus 155 and the rest of the coronary vasculature.
             Referring to Figure 24B, in retrograde flow mode, the heart 102 pumps the
     perfusion fluid 108 out of the pulmonary artery 164 and through the pulmonary artery
                                                  -67-

       interface 166 and the pressure sensor 130. The conduit 796 then flows the perfusion fluid
       from the pulmonary artery interface 166 through the plate 752 and into the 02 saturation
       and hematocrit sensor 140. Referring also to Figures 25A and 25C, the conduit 798 then
       flows the perfusion fluid 108 from the sensor 140 through the flow rate sensor 136 into the
   5   oxygenator 114. The conduit 800 flows the perfusion fluid 108 from the oxygenator 114
       back into the reservoir 160 by way of the reservoir inlet 786. In retrograde flow mode,
       substantially no perfusion fluid is pumped into or out of the left atrium 152 via the
       pulmonary vein 168 and the pulmonary vein interface 170, with the exception of a small
       amount of perfusion fluid diverted by the trickle valve 768 from the conduit 794 around
 10   the flow mode selector valve 112 into the compliance chamber 186. As mentioned above,
      the trickle flow provides sufficient perfusion fluid 108 to keep the left atrium 152
      moistened during retrograde flow.
               As described above, the illustrative embodiment of the system 100 has one or more
      sensors or probes for measuring fluid flow and pressure. The probes and/or sensors may
 15   be obtained from standard commercial sources. The flow rate sensors 134, 136 and 138
      are conventional, ultrasonic flow sensors, such as those available from Transonic Systems
      Inc., Ithaca, NY. The fluid pressure probes 126, 128 and 130 may be conventional, strain
      gauge pressure sensors available from MSI or G.E. Thermometrics. Alternatively, a pre
      calibrated pressure transducer chip can be embedded into organ chamber connectors and
20   wired to a data collection site such as the front end board 637.
               Having described the electrical and mechanical components and functionality of
     illustrative embodiments of the system 100 and certain modes of operation thereof, the
     system 100 will next be described with reference to the illustrative organ harvest and
     transplant procedures of Figures 29A and 29B. More particularly, Figure 29A is a flow
25   diagram 900 depicting exemplary methodologies for harvesting the donor heart 102 and
     cannulating it into the system 100 at a donor location. Figure 29B depicts particular points
     of care for handling the heart 102 in preparation for cannulation, and Figure 30 is a flow
     diagram 902 of exemplary methodologies for removing the donor organ 102 from the
     system 100 and transplanting it into a patient at a recipient site.
30            As shown in Figure 29A, the process of obtaining and preparing the heart 102 for
     cannulation and transport begins by providing a suitable organ donor 904. The organ
     donor is brought to a donor location, whereupon the process of receiving and preparing the
     donor heart 102 for cannulation and transport proceeds down two intersecting pathways
                                                   -68-

      906 and 908. The pathway 906 principally involves preparing the donor heart 102 for
      transplant, while the pathway 908 principally involves preparing the system 100 to receive
     the donor heart 102 and then transporting the heart 102 via system 100 to the recipient site.
              With particular reference to Figure 29A, the first pathway 906 includes
  5  exsanguinating the donor 910, arresting the donor heart 914, explanting the heart 916, and
     preparing the heart 102 for.cannulation 918 into the system 100. In particular, in the
     exsanguination step 910, the donor's blood is removed and set aside so it can be used to
     perfuse the heart 102 during preservation on the system 100. This step is performed by
     inserting a catheter into either the arterial or venous vasculature of the donor to allow the
10   donor's blood to flow out of the donor and be collected into a blood collection bag. The
     donor's blood is allowed to flow out until the necessary amount of blood is collected,
     typically 1.0 -2.5 liters, whereupon the catheter is removed. 'The blood exacted though
     exsanguination is then filtered and added to a fluid reservoir 160 of the system 100 in
    preparation for use with the system 100. Alternatively, the blood can be exsanguinated
15   from the donor and filtered for leukocytes and platelets in a single step that uses an
     apparatus having a filter integrated with the cannula and blood collection bag. An example
     of such a filter is a Pall BC2B filter. After the donor's blood is exsanguinated, the donor
    heart 102 is injected in step 914 with a cardioplegic solution to temporarily halt beating in
    preparation for harvesting the heart 102.
20           After the heart 102 is arrested, the heart 102 is explanted 916 from the donor and
    prepared 918 for loading onto the system 100. In general, the steps of explanting the heart
    916 and preparing for loading 918 involve severing the connections between the
    vasculature of the heart 102 and the interior chest cavity of the donor, suturing various of
    the severed connections, then lifting the heart 102 from the chest cavity.
25           More particularly, as shown in Figure 29B, the right and left pulmonary arteries
     164a and 164b are severed, and the right pulmonary artery 164a is tied-off by a surgical
    thread 901a or other suitable mechanism. The tying prevents fluid from flowing through
    the severed end 903a of the left pulmonary artery 164a. As described above with reference
    to Figures 24A-24B, the left pulmonary artery 164b remains unsutured to allow it to be
30  cannulated to the organ chamber assembly 104, thereby allowing perfusion fluid 108 to
    flow through the left pulmonary artery 164b, through the pulmonary artery cannulation
    interface 170, and back to the reservoir 160. The left pulmonary veins 168b and 169b and
    the right pulmonary veins 168a and 169a are also severed, and all except a single
                                                    -69-

      pulmonary vein 169b are tied off with surgical thread 901b, 901c, and 901d, respectively.
      This prevents fluid from flowing through the severed ends 903b and 903c of the right
     pulmonary veins 168a and 169a, or through the severed end 903d of the left pulmonary
      vein 168b, but allows the untied pulmonary vein to be cannulated to the organ chamber
  5   assembly 104 through the pulmonary vein interface 170. As described above with
     reference to Figures24A-24B, this arrangementallows the perfusion fluid 108 to flow
     through the right pulmonary artery 164b, through the pulmonary artery interface 166, and
     back to the oxygenator 114. Alternatively, blood can be expelled from the right ventricle
     via cannulating the pulmonary arterial trunk. The pulmonary arterial trunk is not shown
 10  but includes the segment of pulmonary artery 164 between the branches 164a and 164b of
     the pulmonary artery 164 and the right ventricle 159. The superior vena cava 161 is also
     severed and, once the heart is connected to the system 100 and begins beating, is tied with
     thread 901e to prevent fluid from flowing through its end 903e. The inferior vena cava
     163 is similarly severed and tied with thread 901f or oversewn to prevent fluid from
 15  flowing through its end 903f The aorta 158 is also severed (in the illustrated embodiment
     at a point downstream from the coronary sinus 155) but is not tied off, allowing it to be
     cannulated to the organ chamber assembly 104. In one embodiment, the aorta 158 is
     cannulated to an aortic connector, which can b'e easily attached to the aorta interface 170.
             With continued reference to the flow chart of Figure 29A, after the heart
20  vasculature is severed and appropriately tied, the heart 102 is then loaded onto the system
     100 by inserting it into the organ chamber assembly 104 and cannulating the aorta 158, left
    pulmonary artery 164b, and a pulmonary vein 169b to the appropriate points in the organ
    chamber assembly 104.
             Often, hearts obtained from donors who have also donated their lungs are missing
25  part or all of the left atrium 152. In this situation, the heart 102 can still be instrumented
    and perfused in the retrograde mode by cannulating the aorta 158 and either the right
    pulmonary artery 164a or pulmonary artery trunk (not shown, but described above), and
    allowing any remaining left atrium 152 portion to remain open during the preservation
    period.
30           With continued reference to Figure 29A, during the preparation of the heart via
    path 906, the system 100 is prepared through the steps of path 908 so it is primed and
    waiting to receive the heart 102 for cannulation and transport as soon as the heart 102 is
    prepared. By quickly transferring the heart 102 from the donor to the system 100, and
                                                   -70-

     subsequently perfusing the heart 102 with the perfusion fluid 108, a medical operator can
     minimize the amount of time the heart 102 is deprived of oxygen and other nutrients, and
     thus reduce ischemia and other ill effects that arise during current organ care techniques.
     In certain embodiments, the amount of time between infusing the heart 102 with
  5  cardioplegic solution and beginning flow of the perfusion fluid 108 through the heart 102
     via the system 100 is less than about 15 minutes. In other illustrative embodiments, the
    between-time is less than about 2hour, less than about 1 hour, less than about 2 hours, or
     even less than about 3 hours, Similarly, the time between transplanting the heart into an
    organ care system 100 and bringing the heart 102 to a near physiological temperature (e.g.,
 10 between about 340 C and about 370 Q occurs within a brief period of time so as to reduce
    ischemia within the heart tissues. In some illustrative embodiments, the period of time is
    less than about 5 minutes, while in other applications it may be less than about % hour, less
    than about 1 hour, less than about 2 hours, or even less than about 3 hours. According to
    some illustrative embodiments, the heart can be transferred directly from the donor to the.
15  system 100, without the use of cardioplegia, and in such applications the time to beginning
    the flow of warm perfusion fluid 108 and/or time to the heart reaching near physiologic
    temperature is similarly less than about 5 minutes, less than about % hour, less than about
    1 hour, less than about 2 hours, or even less than about 3 hours. In one implementation,
    the donor heart is not arrested prior to removal from the donor, and is instrumented onto
20  the system 100 while the heart 102 is still beating.
             As shown in Figure 29A, the system 100 is prepared in pathway 908 through a
    series of steps, which include preparing the single use module 634 (step 922), priming the
    system 100 with priming solution (step 924), filtering the blood from the donor and adding
    it to the system 100 reservoir 160 (step 912), and connecting the heart 102 into the system
25  100 (step 904). In particular, the step 922 of preparing the single use module 634 includes
    assembling the disposable single use module 634. Suitable assemblies are shown, for
    example, in Figures 24A-24D, Figures 25A-25C, and Figure 26. After the module 634 is
    assembled, or provided in the appropriate assembly, it is then inserted into multiple use
    module 650 through the process described above with reference to Figures 21A-21 C.
30           In step 924, the loaded system 100 is primed with priming solution, as described in
    more particular detail below with reference to Table 1. According to one feature, to aid in
    priming, the system 100 provides an organ bypass conduit 810 shown installed into the
    organ chamber assembly 104 in Figure 27A. As depicted, the bypass conduit includes
                                                 -:71-

       three segments 810a-810c. Segment 810a attaches to the pulmonary artery cannulation
       interface 170. The segment 810b attaches to the aorta cannulation interface 81Gb, and the
       segment 810c attaches to the pulmonary vein cannulation interface 166. Using the bypass
       conduit 810 so attached/cannulated into the organ chamber assembly 104, an operator can
   5   cause the system 100 to circulate the perfusion fluid 108 through all of the paths used
       during actual operation. This enables the system 100 to be thoroughly tested and primed
      prior to cannulating the heart 102 into place.
               In the next step 912, blood from the donor is filtered and added to the reservoir
       160. The filtering process helps reduce the inflammatory process through the complete or
 10   partial removal of leukocytes and platelets. Additionally, the donor blood is mixed with
      one or more nutritional 116 and/or preservative 118 solutions to form the perfusion fluid
      108. In step 926, the system 100 is primed with the perfusion fluid 108 by pumping it
      through the system 100 in the retrograde flow mode, as described above in reference to
      Figure 24B, and with the bypass conduit 810 in place. As the perfusion fluid 108
 15   circulates through the system 100 in priming step 926, it is warmed to the desired
     temperature as it passes through heater assembly 110. The desired temperature range and
     heating applications are described above in reference to Figures 6A through 6E, and in
     respect to Figure 13. In step 920, after the system 100 is primed with the perfusion fluid
      108, the bypass conduit 810 is removed, and the heart 102 is instrumented, as described
20   above and shown in Figure 27B, onto the system 100.
              After the heart 102 is instrumented onto the system 100, the pump 104 is activated
     and the flow mode valve 112 is positioned in retrograde flow mode (described above with
     reference to Figures 1 and 4) to pump the perfusion fluid 108 in retrograde flow mode
     through the aorta into the vasculature of the heart 102. The pumping of the warm, oxygen
25   arid nutrient enriched perfusion fluid 108 through the heart 102 allows the heart 102 to
     function ex vivo in a near normal physiologic state. In particular, the warm perfusion fluid
     108 warms the heart 102 as it perfuses through it, which may cause the heart 102 to
     resume beating in its natural fashion. In some instances, it is desirable to assist the heart
     102 in resuming its beating, which may be done by providing hand massage or a
30   defibrillation signal 143 (shown in Figure 22E) to the heart 102. This may be done as
     described above with reference to the organ chamber assembly of Figures 5A-5F and
     operator interface 146 of Figures 17A-171.
                                                  -72-

         -    After the heart is instrumented onto the system 100 at step 920, subsequent steps
      928 and 930 allow the operator to test the heart 102 and the system 100, and to evaluate
     their respective conditions. Illustratively, step 928 involves evaluating ECG signals 379
     and 381 from the sensors 142 and 144 (positioned as shown in Figure 27A), respectively,
  5  as well as hematocrit 145 and oxygen saturation 141 levels of the perfusion fluid 108 from
     the sensor 140. As further described in reference to Figure 12 and Figures 17A - 171, the
     operator can also monitor the fluid flows, pressures, and temperatures of the system 100
     while the heart 102 is cannulated. As described above with reference to Figures 5E and
     5F, the testing step 928 may also include having the operator touch/examine the heart 102
 10 by lifting an outer lid 196 of the organ chamber 104 and touching/examining the heart 102
     indirectly through the flexible membrane 198b. During the evaluation step 930, based on
    the data and other information obtained during testing 928, the operator determines
    whether and how to adjust the system 100 properties (e.g., fluid flows, pressures, and
    temperatures), and whether to provide additional defibrillation, or other needed modes of
15  treatment to the heart 102. The operator makes any such adjustments in step 932, then
    repeats steps 928 and 930 to re-test and re-evaluate the heart 102 and the system 100. In
    certain embodiments, the operator may also opt to perform surgical, therapeutic or other
    procedures on the heart 102 during the adjustment step 932. For example, the operator can
    conduct an evaluation of the physiological fitness of the heart, such as for example,
20  performing an ultrasound or other imaging test, performing an echocardiogram or
    diagnostic test on the heart, measuring arterial blood gas levels and other evaluative tests.
             In another application, during or after step 932, the system 100 allows a medical
    operator to evaluate the organ for compatibility with an intended recipient after
    explantation but prior to implantation into the donor. For example, the operator can
25  perform a [unman Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) matching test on the organ while the organ is
    cannulated to the system 100. Such tests may require 12 hours or longer and are
    performed to ensure compatibility of the organ with the intended recipient. The
    preservation of an organ using the system 100 described above may allow for preservation
    times in excess of the time needed to complete an ILA match, potentially resulting in
30  improved post-transplant outcomes. In the HILA matching test example, the ILA test can
    be performed on the heart while a preservation solution is pumping into the heart.
             According to a further illustrative embodiment, after the heart is functioning as
    determined by the step 932, the operator can perform surgery on the heart or provide
                                                  -73-

      therapeutic or other treatment, such as immunosuppressive treatments, chemotherapy,
      genetic testing and therapies, or irradiation therapy. Because the system 100 allows the
      heart 102 to be perfused under near physiological temperature, fluid flow rate, and oxygen
      saturation levels, the heart 102 can be maintained after the adjustment step 932 for a long
  5   period of time (e.g., for a period of at least 3 days or more, greater than at least I week, at
      least 3 weeks, or a month or more) to allow for repeated evaluation and treatment
              According to the illustrative embodiment, the testing 928, evaluation 930 and
      adjustment 932 steps may be conducted with the system 100 operating in retrograde flow
      mode, or may be conducted with the system 100 operating in normal flow mode. In
 10   normal flow mode, the operator can test the function of the heart 102 under normal or near
     normal physiologic blood flow conditions. Based on the evaluation 930, the settings of the
      system 100 may be adjusted in step 932, if necessary, to modify the flow, heating and/or
      other characteristics to stabilize the heart 102 in step 934 in preparation for transport to the
     recipient site in step 936. After the heart 102 and the system 100 is tested and evaluated to
 15  ensure appropriate performance, the system 100 with the loaded heart 102 is transported to
     the recipient site at step 936.
              Referring now to Figure 30, the first phase 942 of the transplant process involves
     repeating the testing 928 and evaluation 930 steps undertaken just prior to leaving the
     donor site 936. If the function and characteristics of the heart 102 are not acceptable, the
20   system 100 can be adjusted 942 as appropriate, for example, to provide appropriate fluid
     oxygenation or nutritional levels, or to increase or decrease the appropriate fluid
     temperature. As noted above, surgical and/or other therapeutic/remedial procedures may
    be performed on the heart 102, along with the testing 928 and evaluation 930. According
    to the illustrative embodiment, testing at the recipient site may be performed in retrograde
25  flow mode, normal flow mode, or a combination of both.
              At step 946, after testing is complete, the system 100 is placed in nonnal/forward
    flow mode. In certain embodiments, this step 946 is not initiated until the left atrium 152
    and pulmonary vein 164 are cannulated, there is adequate operating volume in the system,
    the heart exhibits stable electrical activity, the ABG and electrolytes are within acceptable
30  ranges, Sv02 is >80%, and blood temperature is between about 34*C and about 36*C. The
    step 946 is may be accomplished by slowing and/or stopping the retrograde pumping of
    the system 100, then restarting the pumping in forward mode. In certain embodiments,
    prior to restarting in forward mode, the user opens the aortic sampling port 754a, releases
                                                    -74-

    the pressure control clamp 190 by turning it counterclockwise, then increases the flow rate
    of pump 106 to about 1.0 L/min, sets the flow control valve 112 to normal/forward flow,
    and increases the flow rate of pump 106 to about 2.0 L/min to allow the blood 102 to
    displace air in the perfusate lines (e.g., 802) of the system 100 and pass through the left
 5  side of the heart 102 and down the reservoir return line 808. The user then closes the
   aortic sampling port 754a.
            The flow rate of the perfusion fluid 108 emitted from the pump 106 is then
   increased at step 950 to a level of the clinician's choosing (typically between about 1
   L/min to about 5 L/min) to approximate the physiologic flow rate provided by the heart
10  102 while functioning in normal beating mode. The heart 102 and the system 100 are
   again tested at step 952 in a similar fashion to that described above with respect to steps
   928 and 930. The clinician may also choose to perform any other tests or evaluations on
   the heart, for example echocardiogram, electrolyte measurements, cardiac enzyme
   measurements, metabolyte measurements, intravascular ultrasound evaluation, pressure
15 volume loop evaluation, and Millar pressure evaluation.
            In the third phase 946 at the recipient site, the heart 102 is prepared for
   implantation into the recipient. This phase includes the step 956 of powering down the
   pump 106 to stop the flow of perfusion fluid 108. Next, in step 958, the heart 102 is
   arrested, for example by injecting it with cardioplegic solution in a similar fashion to what
20 is done in step 914 at the donor site. In step 960, the heart 102 is de-cannulated and
   removed from the organ chamber assembly 106. In step 962, the heart 102 is transplanted
   into the recipient patient by first removing the sutures 901a-901f, then inserting the heart
   102 into the recipient's chest cavity, and suturing the various heart vesicles (e.g., 158,
   164a, 164b, 168a, 168b, 169a, 169b, and 903a-903f) to their appropriate mating vesicles
25 within the recipient.
            While external devices and methods have been described to defibrillate the heart,
   deliver pacing signals to the heart, and perform blood chemistry analyses from samples
   taken from the perfusion fluid, it may also be beneficial to integrate these features into the
   portable system. Such features include defibrillation, pacing, diagnostic ECG sensing, and
30 blood chemistry analyses.
            As described above, the system 100 employs a priming solution, and also employs
   a perfusion fluid 108 that combines a nutritional supplement 116 solution and a
   preservative solution 118 with a blood product or synthetic blood product to form the
                                                  -75-

     perfusion fluid 108. The priming, supplement 116, and preservative 118solutions are
      described next.
              According to certain embodiments, solutions with particular solutes and
      concentrations are selected and proportioned to enable the organ to function at physiologic
  5  or near physiologic conditions. For example, such conditions include maintaining organ
     function at or near a physiological temperature and/or preserving an organ in a state that
     permits normal cellular metabolism, such as protein synthesis.
             In certain embodiments solutions are fonned from compositions by combining
     components with a fluid, from more concentrated solutions by dilution, or from more
 10  dilute solutions by concentration. In exemplary embodiments, suitable solutions include
     an energy source, one or more stimulants to assist the organ in continuing its normal
     physiologic function prior to and during transplantation, and one or more amino acids
     selected and proportioned so that the organ continues its cellular metabolism during
    perfusion. Cellular metabolism includes, for example conducting protein synthesis while
 15  functioning during perfusion. Some illustrative solutions are aqueous based, while other
    illustrative solutions are non-aqueous, for example organic solvent-based, ionic-liquid
    based, or fatty-acid-based.
             The solutions may include one or more energy-rich components to assist the organ
    in conducting its normal physiologic function. These components may include energy rich
20  materials that are metabolizable, and/or components of such materials that an organ can
    use to synthesize energy sources during perfusion. Exemplary sources of energy-rich
    molecules include, for example, one or more carbohydrates. Examples of carbohydrates
    include monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaceharides, or
    combinations thereof, or precursors or metabolites thereof While not meant to be
25  limiting, examples of monosaccharides suitable for the solutions include octoses; heptoses;
    hexoses, such as fructose, allose, altrose, glucose, mannose, gulose, idose, galactose, and
    talose; pentoses such as ribose, arabinose, xylose, and lyxose; tetroses such as erythrose
    and threose; and trioses such as glyceraldehyde. While not meant to be limiting, examples
    of disaccharides suitable for the solutions include (+)-maltose (4-O-(a-D-glucopyranosyl)
30  a-D-glucopyranose), (+)-cellobiose (4-O-(p-D-glucopyranosyl)-D-glucopyranose), (+)
    lactose (4-O-(p-D-galactopyranosyl)--p-D-glucopyranose), sucrose (2-0-(ct-D
    glucopyranosy1)-3-D-fructofuranoside). While not meant to be limiting, examples of
                                                  -76-

       polysaccharides suitable for the solutions include cellulose, starch, amylose, amylopectin,
       sulfonicopolysaccharides (such as dermatane sulfate, chondroitin sulfate, sulodexide,
       mesoglycans, heparan sulfates, idosanes, heparins and heparinoids), and glycogen. In
       some embodiments, monossacharides, disaccharides, and polysaccharides of both aldoses,
   5   ketoses, or a combination thereof are used. One or more isomers, including enantiomers,
       diastereomers, and/or tautomers of monossacharides, disaccharides, and/or
      polysaccharides, including those described and not described herein, may be employed in
      the solutions described herein. In some embodiments, one or more monossacharides,
      disaccharides, and/or polysaccharides may have been chemically modified, for example,
 10   by derivatization and/or protection (with protecting groups) of one or more functional
      groups. In certain embodiments, carbohydrates, such as dextrose or other forms of.glucose
      are preferred.
               Other possible energy sources include adenosine triphosphate (ATP), co-enzyme
      A, pyruvate, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), thiamine pyrophosphate chloride (co
 15   carboxylase), f-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD),      #-nicotinamide  adenine
      dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH), and phosphate derivatives of nucleosides, i.e.
      nucleotides, including mono-, di-, and tri- phosphates (e.g., UTP, GTP, GDF, and UDP),
      coenzymes, or other bio-molecules having similar cellularmetabolic functions, and/or
     metabolites or precursors thereof. For example, phosphate derivatives of adenosine,
20    guanosine, thymidine (5-Me-uridine), cytidine, and uridine, as well as other naturally and
     chemically modified nucleosides are contemplated.
              In certain embodiments, one or more carbohydrates is provided along with a
     phosphate source, such as a nucleotide. The carbohydrate helps enable the orgrn to
     produce ATP or other energy sources during perfusion. The phosphate source may be
25   provided directly through ATP, ADP, AMP or other sources. In other illustrative
     embodiments, a phosphate is provided through a phosphate salt, such as glycerophosphate,
     sodium phosphate or other phosphate ions. A phosphate may include any forn thereof in
     any ionic state, including protonated forms and forms with one or more counter ions.
              The solutions may include one or more organ stimulants for assisting the organ's
30   normal physiologic function during perfusion. In some illustrative embodiments, where
     the transplanted organ is a heart, cardio stimulants are provided to enable the heart to
     continue functioning (e.g., continue beating) during perfUsion and transplantation. Such
                                                  -77-

     stimulants may include, for example, catecholamines, such as epinephrine and/or
     norepinephrine, which facilitate beating of the heart. Other cardio stimulants may be used,
     such as certain forms of peptides and/or polypeptides (e.g., vasopressin, Anthropleurin-A
     and Anthropleurin-B), and/or #1/#2-adrenoreceptor blocking agents (such as CGP
  5  12177), buplinarol, pindolol, alprenolol, and cardiac glycosides. One or more natural
     products may also be used, such as digitalis (digoxin), palustrin, and/or ferulic acid.
     Stimulants such as those mentioned above can be included with the solutions or added at
    the point of use by the user.
             In some instances, additional components are provided to assist the organ in
 10 conducting its metabolism during perfusion. These components include, for example,
    forms or derivatives of adenine and/or adenosine, which may be used for ATP synthesis,
    for maintaining endothelial function, and/or for attenuating ischemia and/or reperfusion
    injury. According to certain implementations, a magnesium ion source is provided with a
    phosphate, and in certain embodiments, with adenosine to further enhance ATP synthesis
15  within the cells of the perfused organ.
            Solutions described herein may include one or more amino acids, preferably a
    plurality of amino acids, to support protein synthesis by the organ's cells. Suitable amino
    acids include, for example, any of the naturally-occurring amino acids. The amino acids
    may be, in various enantiomeric or diastereomeric forms. For example, solutions may
20  employ either D- or L- amino acids, or a combination thereof, i.e. solutions
    enantioenriched in more of the D- or L- isomer or racemic solutions. Suitable amino acids
    may also be non-naturally occurring or modified amino acids, such as citrulline, omiithine,
    homocystein, homoserine, p-amino acids such as p-alanine, amino-caproic acid, or
    combinations thereof.
25          Certain exemplary solutions include some but not all naturally-occurring amino
    acids. In some embodiments, solutions include essential amino acids. For example, a
    solution may be prepared with one or more or all of the following amino-acids:
                                Glycine
                                Alanine
                                Arginine
                                Aspartic Acid
                                Glutamic Acid
                                                 -78-

                                   Histidine
                                   Isoleucine
                                   Leucine
                                   Methionine
                                   Phenylalanine
                                   Proline
                                   Serine
                                   Thereonine
                                   Tryptophan
                                   Tyrosine
                                   Valine
                                   Lysine acetate
              In certain embodiments, non-essential and/or semi-essential amino acids are not
     included in the solutions. For example, in some embodiments, asparagine, glutamine,
     and/or cysteine are not included. In other embodiments, the solution contains one or more
     non-essential and/or semi-essential amino acids. Accordingly, in other embodiments,
  5  asparagine, glutamine, and/or cysteine are included.
              The solutions may also contain electrolytes, particularly calcium ions for
     facilitating enzymatic reactions, cardiac contractility, and/or coagulation within the organ.
     Other electrolytes may be used, such as sodium, potassium, chloride, sulfate, magnesium
     and other inorganic and organic charged species, or combinations thereof. It should be
10   noted that any component provided hereunder may be provided, where valence and
     stability permit, in an ionic form, in a protonated or unprotonated form, in salt or free base
     form, or as ionic or covalent substituents in combination with other components that
    hydrolyze and make the component available in aqueous solutions, as suitable and
     appropriate.
15            In certain embodiments, the solutions contain buffering components. For example,
     suitable buffer systems include 2-morpholinoethanesulfonic acid monohydrate (MES),
    cacodylic acid, H2 C0 3 / NaHC0 3 (pIQ), citric acid (pKa3), bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-imino
    tris-(hydroxymethyl)-methane (Bis-Tris), N-carbamoylmethylimidino acetic acid (ADA),
    3-bis[tris(hydroxymethyl)methylamino]propane (Bis-Tris Propane) (pKai), piperazine-1,4
20  bis(2-ethanesulfonic acid) (PIPES), N-(2-Acetamido)-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid (ACES),
    imidazole, NN-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-aninoethanesulfonic acid (BES), 3-(N
                                                   -79-

     morpholino)propanesulphonic acid (MOPS), NaH2PO4/Na2HPO 4 (pK,2), N
     tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-2-aminoethanesulfonic acid (TES), N-(2-hydroxyethyl)
     piperazine-N-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), N-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazine-N'-(2
     hydroxypropanesulfonic acid) (HEPPSO), triethanolamine, N
  5  [tris(hydroxynethyl)methyl]glycine (Tricine), tris hydroxymethylaminoethane (Tris),
     glycineamide, NN-bis(2-hydroxyethyl) glycine (Bicine), glycylglycine (pKa2), N
     tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-3-aminopropanesulfonic acid (TAPS), or a combination
    thereof. In some embodiments, the solutions contain soditun bicarbonate, potassium
    phosphate, or TRIS buffer..
10            The solutions may include other components to help maintain the organ and protect
    it against ischemia, reperfision injury and other ill effects during perfusion. In certain
     exemplary embodiments these components may include hormones (e.g., insulin), vitamins
     (e.g., an adult multi-vitamin, such as multi-vitamin MVI-Adult), and/or steroids (e.g.,
    dexamethasone and SoluMedrol).
15           In another aspect, a blood product is provided with the solution to support the
    organ during metabolism. Exemplary suitable blood products may include whole blood,
    and/or one or more components thereof such as blood serum, plasma, albumin, and red
    blood cells. In embodiments where whole blood is used, the blood may be passed through
    a leulcocyte and platelet depleting filter to reduce pyrogens, antibodies and/or other items
20  that may cause inflammation in the organ. Thus, in some embodiments, the solution
    employs whole blood that has been at least partially depleted of leukocytes and/or whole
    blood that has been at least partially depleted of platelets.
             The solutions are preferably provided at a physiological temperature and
    maintained thereabout throughout perfusion and recirculation. As used herein,
25  "physiological temperature" is referred to as temperatures between about 25*C and about
    370 C, for example, between about 30'C and about 37*C, such as between about 34"C and
    about 370 C.
             Table I sets forth components that are used in an exemplary aqueous priming
    solution. The component amounts in Table I are relative to each other and to the amount
30  of aqueous solvent employed in the solution (about 500 mL in the exemplary embodiment)
    and may be scaled as appropriate. In certain embodiments, the quantity of aqueous solvent
    varies  about 10%.
                                                   -80-

            Table 1: Composition of Exemplary Priming Solution (about 500 nL aqueous
                                              solution)
                         Component                        Amount          Specification
          Mannitol                                         12.5 g          about 10%
          Sodium Chloride                                   4.8 g           about 10%
          Potassium Chloride                              185 mg            about 10%
          Magnesium Sulfate heptahydrate                  185 mg           t about 10%
          Sodium Glycerophosphate                         900 mg           I about 10%
    The exemplary priming solution is added to the system 100 through priming step 924, as
   more fully described with reference to Figure 29A.
           With regard to the nutritional supplement solution 116, in certain embodiments it
 5 includes one or more carbohydrates and may also include a phosphate source. The
   nutritional supplement solution 116 is typically maintained at a pH of about 5.0 to about
   6.5, for example about 5.5 to about 6.0.
           Table 2 sets forth components that are used in an exemplary nutritional supplement
   solution 116. In some embodiments, the nutritional solution 116 further includes sodium
10 glycerol phosphate. The amount of components in Table 2 is relative to the amount of
   aqueous solvent employed in the solution 116 (about 500 mL) and may be scaled as
   appropriate. In some embodiments, the quantity of aqueous solvent varies  about 10%.
              Table 2: Components of Exemplary Nutritional Solution (about 500 ML)
                        Component                      Amount          Specification
             Dextrose                                    40 g             about 10%
           In certain embodiments the nutritional solution 116 includes one or more
   carbohydrates and may also include a phosphate source. The nutritional solution 116 is
15 typically maintained at a pH of about 5.0 to about 6.5, for example of about 5.5 to about
   6.0.
           The preservation solution 118 may include one or more preservatives. In an
   exemplary embodiment, one or more cardio stimulants are included for assisting normal
   physiologic function of the heart 102 during perfusion and transplantation. Such
20 stimulants may include, for example, catecholamines, such as epinephrine and/or
   norepinephrine, which facilitate beating of the heart.
                                               -81-

            Other components may be added to the preservation solution 118, including, for
    example, adenosine, magnesium, phosphate, calcium, and/or sources thereof. In some
   instances, additional components are provided to assist the organ in conducting its
   metabolism during perfusion. These components include, for example, forms of
 5 adenosine, which may be used for ATP synthesis, for maintaining endothelial function,
   and/or for attenuating ischemia and/or reperfusion injury. Components may also include
   other nucleosides, such as guanosine, thymidine (5-Me-uridine), cytidine, and uridine, as
   well as other naturally and chemically modified nucleosides including nucleotides thereof.
   According to some implementations, a magnesium ion source is provided with a phosphate
10 source, and in certain embodiments, with adenosine to further enhance ATP synthesis
   within the cells of the perfused organ. A plurality of amino acids may also be added to
   support protein synthesis by the heart's 102 cells. Applicable amino acids may include,
   for example, any of the naturally-occurring amino acids, as well as those mentioned above.
            Table 3 sets forth components that may be used in a solution 118 for preserving an
15 organ as described herein. The solution 118 may include one or more of the components
   described in Table 3.
               Table 3: Component of Exemplary Composition for Preservative Solution
                               Component                          Exemplary Concentration
                                                                   Ranges in Preservative
                                                                            Solution
       Alanine                                                   about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Arginine                                                  about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Asparagine                                                about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Aspartic Acid                                             about ! mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Cysteine                                                  about I mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Cystine                                                   about I mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Glutamic Acid                                             about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Glutamine                                                 about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Glycine                                                   about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Histidine                                                 about I mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Hydroxyproline                                            about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Isoleucine                                                about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Leucine                                                   about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Lysine                                                    about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Methionine                                                about 1 mg/L - about 10 gIL
       Phenylalanine                                             about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Proline                                                   about 1mg/L- about 10 gIL
       Serine                                                    about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Threonine                                                 about I mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Tryptophan                                                about 1mg/L -about 10 g/L
       Tyrosine                                                  about I mg/L - about 10 g/L
       Valine                                                    about 1 mg/L- about 10 g/L
       Adenine                                                   about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
       ATP                                                       about 10 ug/L -about 100 g/L
       Adenylic Acid                                             about 10 ug/L - about 100 g/L
                                               -82-

               Table 3: Component of Exemplary Composition for Preservative Solution
                              Component                         Exemplary Concentration
                                                                  Ranges in Preservative
                                                                           Solution
      ADP                                                      about 10 ug/L - about 100 g/L
      AMP                                                      about 10 ug/L- about 100 gIL
      Ascorbic Acid                                            about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      D-Biotin                                                 about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Vitamin D-12                                             about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Cholesterol                                              about 1 ug/L- about 10 g/L
      Dextrose (Glucose)                                       about 1 g/L - about 150 g/L
      Multi-vitamin Adult                                      about I mg/L - about 20 mg/L
                                                               or I unit vial
      Epinephrine                                              about 1 ug/L -about 1 g/L
      Folic Acid                                               about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Glutathione                                              about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Guanine                                                  about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Inositol                                                 about 1 g/L - about 100 g/L
      Riboflavin                                               about I ug/L - about 10 gIL
      Ribose                                                   about 1 ug/L- about 10 g/L
      Thiamine                                                 about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
      Uracil                                                   about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
      Calcium Chloride                                         about 1 mg/L - about 100 g/L
      NaHCO3                                                   about I mg/L- about 100 g/L
      Magnesium sulfate                                        about 1 mg/L - about 100 g/L
      Potassium chloride                                       about I mg/L- about 100 g/L
      Sodium glycerophosphate                                  about 1 mg/L - about 100 g/L
      Sodium Chloride                                          about I mg/L - about 100 g/L
      Sodium Phosphate                                         about 1 mg/L - about 100 g/L
      Insulin                                                  about 1 TU - about 150 IU
      Serum albumin                                            about 1 gIL - about 100 g/L
      Pyruvate                                                 about 1 mg/L - about 100 g/L
      Coenzyme A                                               about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      Serum                                                    about 1 ml/L - about 100 mi/L
      Heparin                                                  about 500 U/L- about 1500
                                                               U/L
      Solumedrol                                               about 200 mg/L - about 500
                                                               mg/L
      Dexamethasone                                            about 1mg/b - about I g/L
      FAD                                                      about 1 ugL - about 10 g/L
      NADP                                                     about 1 ug/L - about 10 g/L
      adenosine                                                about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/L
      guanosine                                                about 1 mg/L - about 10 g/b
      GTP                                                      about 10 ug/L - about 100 g/L
     ,DP                                                       about 10 ug/L - about 100 g/L
      GMP                                                      about 10 ug/L - about 100 gIL
          Table 4 sets forth components that are used in an exemplary preservative solution
  118. The amounts provided in Table 4 describe preferred amounts relative to other
  components in the table and may be scaled to provide compositions of sufficient quantity.
  In some embodiments, the amounts listed in Table 4 can vary by  about 10% and still be
5 used in the solutions described herein.
                                             -83-

                      Table 4: Components of Exemplary Preservative Solution
                      Component                                    Amount
        Adenosine                                About 675 mg- About 825 mg
        Calcium Chloride dihydrate               About 2100 ing - About 2600 mg
        Glycine                                  About 315 mg - About 385 mg
        L-Alanine                               About 150 mg - About 200 mg
        L-Arginine                              About 600 mg - About 800 mg
        L-Aspartic Acid                         About 220 mg- About 270 mg
        L-Glutamic Acid                         About 230 mg - About 290 mg
        L-Histidine                             About 200 mg - About 250 mg
        L-Isoleucine                            About 100 mg about 130 mng
        L-Leucine                               About 300 mg - About 380 mg
        L-Methionine                            About 50 mg - About 65 mg
        L-Phenylalanine                         About 45 mg - About 60 mg
        L-Proline                               About 110 mg - About 140 mg
       L-Serine                                 About 80 mg -About 105 mg
       L-Thereonine                             About 60 mg - About 80 mg
       L-Tryptophan                             About 30 mg - About 40 mg
       L-Tyrosine                               About 80 mng - About 110 mg
       L-Valine                                 About 150 mg - About 190 mng
       Lysine Acetate                           About 200 mg - About 250 mg
       Magnesium Sulfate Heptahydrate          About 350 mg - About 450 mug
       Potassium Chloride                      About 15 mg - About 25 mg
       Sodium Chloride                         About 1500 mg - About 2000 mg
       Dextrose                                About 25 gm- About 120 gm
       Epinephrine                             About 0.25 mg - About 1.0 mg
       Insulin                                 About 75 Units - About 150 Units
       MVI-Adult                                1 unit vial
       SoluMedrol                              about 200 mg - 500mg
       Sodium Bicarbonate                      About 10-25 mEq
           In the exemplary embodiment of a solution 118, the components in Table 4 are
  combined in the relative amounts listed therein per about 1 L of aqueous fluid to form the
  solution 118. In some embodiments, the components in Table 4 are combined in the
  relative amounts listed therein per about 500 mL of aqueous fluid and then combined with
5 the solution 116, also about 500 mL, to provide a maintenance solution 116/118 of about 1
                                              -84-

    L of aqueous fluid. In sonic embodiments the quantity of aqueous fluid in solutions 116,
     118, and/or 116/118 can vary  about 10%. The pH of the solution 118 may be adjusted to
     be between about 7.0 and about 8.0, for example about 7.3 and about 7.6. The solution
     118 may be sterilized, for example by autoclaving, to provide for improved purity.
  5         Table 5 sets forth another exemplary preservative solution 118, comprising a tissue
    culture media having the components identified in Table 5 and combined with an aqueous
    fluid, which may be used in the perfusion fluid 108 as described herein. The amounts of
    components listed in Table 5 are relative to each other and to the quantity of aqueous
    solution used. In some embodiments, about 500 mL of aqueous fluid is used. In other
10  embodiments about 1 L of aqueous fluid is used. For example, combination of about 500
    mL of preservative solution 118 with 500 mL of nutritional solution 116 affords a
    maintenance solution 116/118 of about 1 L. In some embodiments, the quantity of
    aqueous solution can vary  about 10%. The component amounts and the quantity of
    aqueous solution may be scaled as appropriate for use. The pH of the preservative solution
15  118, in this embodiment, may be adjusted to be about 7.0 to about 8.0, for example about
    7.3 to about 7.6.
                  Table 5: Composition of Another Exemplary Preservative Solution
                                   (about 500 mL aqueous solution)
                    Tissue Culture Component              Amount          Specification
              Adenosine                                    750 mg          about 10%
              Calcium Chloride dihydrate                  2400 mg          about 10%
              Glycine                                      350 mg          about 10%
              L-Alanine                                    174 mg         about 10%
              L-Arginine                                   700 mg          about 10%
              L-Aspartic Acid                              245 mg          about 10%
              L-Glutamic Acid                              258 mg          about 10%
              L-Histidine                                  225 mg         about 10%
              L-Isoleucine                                115.5 ig         about 10%
              L-Leucine                                    343 mg          about 10%
              L-Methionine                                  59 mg         about 10%
              L-Phenylalanine                               52 mg          about 10%
                                                -85-

                  Table 5: Composition of Another Exemplary Preservative Solution
                                   (about 500 mL aqueous solution)
                     Tissue Culture Component                Amount         Specification
              L-Proline                                       126 mg         about 10%
              L-Serine                                         93 mg         about 10%
              L-Thereonine                                     70 mg         about 10%
              L-Tryptophan                                     35 mg         about 10%
              L-Tyrosine                                       92 mg         about 10%
              L-Valine                                       171.5 mg        about 10%
              Lysine Acetate                                  225 mg         about 10%
              Magnesiu m Sulfate Heptahydrate                400 mg          about 10%
              Potassium Chloride                              20 mg          about 10%
              Sodium Chloride                                1750 mg         about 10%
            Since amino acids are the building blocks of proteins, the unique characteristics of
   each amino acid impart certain important properties on a protein such as the ability to
   provide structure and to catalyze biochemical reactions. The selection and concentrations
   of the amino acids provided in the preservative solutions provide support of normal
 5 physiologic functions such as metabolism of sugars to provide energy, regulation of
   protein metabolism, transport of minerals, synthesis of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA),
   regulation of blood sugar and support of electrical activity, in addition to providing protein
   structure. Additionally, the concentrations of speciflEc amino acids found in the
   preservative solutions can be used to predictably stabilize the pH of the maintenance
10 solution 116/118 and perfusion fluid 108.
           Certain embodiments of the preservative solution 118 include epinephrine and a
   plurality of amino acids. In certain embodiments, the preservative solution 118 includes
   electrolytes, such as calcium and magnesium.
           In one embodiment, a maintenance solution 116/118 is made from the combination
is of the preservative solution 118, including one or more amino acids, and the nutritional
   solution 16, including one or more carbohydrates, such as glucose or dextrose. The
   maintenance solution 116/118 may also have additives, such as those described herein,
   administered at the point of use just prior to infusion into the organ perfusion system. For

     example, additional additives that can be included with the solution or added at the point
     of use by the user include hormones and steroids, such as dexamethasone and insulin, as
     well as vitamins, such as an adult multi-vitamin, for example adult multivitamins for
     infusion, such as MVI-Adult. Additional small molecules and large bio-iolecules may
  5  also be included with the solution or added at the point of use by the user at port 762, for
     example, therapeutics and/or components typically associated with blood or blood plasma,
     such as albumin.
             In some embodiments, therapeutics that may be included in the compositions,
     solutions, and systems described herein include hormones, such as thyroid hormones, for
10  example T3 and/or T4 thyroid hormones. Further therapeutics that may be included include
    drugs such as anti-arrhythmic drugs, for example, for heart therapy, and beta blockers. For
    instance, in certain embodiments, one or more thyroid hormones, one or more anti
    arrhythmic drugs, and one or more beta blockers are added to the nutritional solution 116,
    the preservative solution 118, and/or the maintenance solutions 116/118 either before or
15  during perfusion of the organ. The above therapeutics may also be added directly to the
    system, for example, to the perfusion fluid 108, before or during perfusion of the organ.
            With further reference to Table 4, certain components used in the exemplary
    preservation solution 118 are molecules, such as small organic molecules or large bio
    molecules, that would be inactivated, for example through decomposition or denaturing, if
20  passed through sterilization. According to the system 100, the inactivatable components of
    the solution 118 may be prepared separately from the remaining components of the
    solution 118. The separate preparation involves separately purifying each component
    through known techniques. The remaining components of the solution 118 are sterilized,
    for example through an autoclave, then combined with the biological components.
25          Table 6 lists certain biological components that may be separately purified and
    added to the solutions described herein after sterilization, according to this two-step
    process. These additional or supplemental components may be added to solutions 118,
    116, 116/118, the priming solution or a combination thereof individually, in various
    combinations, all at once as a composition, or as a combined solution. For example, in
30  certain embodiments, the epinephrine, insulin, and MVI-Adult, listed in Table 6, are added
    to the maintenance solution 116/118. In another example, the SoluMedrol and the sodium
    bicarbonate, listed in Table 6, are added to the priming solution. The additional
                                                 -87-

      components may also be combined in one or more combinations or all together and placed
      in solution before being added to solutions 116, 118, 116/118, and/or the priming solution.
      In some embodiments, the additional components are added directly to the perfusion fluid
      108 through port 762. The component amounts listed in Table 6 are relative to each other
  5   and/or to the amounts of components listed in one or more of Tables 1-5 as well as the
     amount of aqueous solution used in preparing solutions 116, 118, 116/118, and/or the
     priming solution and may be scaled as appropriate for the amount of solution required.
                    Table 6: Exemplary Biological Components Added Prior to Use
          Component               Amount                  Type          Specification
       Epinephrine            About 0.50 ng        Catecholamine        about 10%
                                                   Hornone
       Insulin                about 100 Units      Hormone              about 10%
       MVI-Adult               1 mL unit vial      Vitamin              about 10%
       SoluMedrol             About 250 ng         Steroid              about 10%
       Sodium                 About 20 nEq         Buffer               about 10%
       Bicarbonate
               In one embodiment, a composition for use in a maintenance solution 116/118 is
     provided comprising one or more carbohydrates, one or more organ stimulants, and a
10  plurality of amino acids that do not include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine. The
     composition may also include other substances, such as those used in solutions described
    herein.
              In another embodiment, a system for perfusing an organ, such as a heart, is
    provided comprising an organ and a substantially cell-free composition, comprising one or
15  more carbohydrates, one or more organ stimulants, and a plurality of amino acids that do
    not include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine. Substantially cell-free includes systems
    that are substantially free from cellular matter; in particular, systems that are not derived
    from cells. For example, substantially cell-free includes compositions and solutions
    prepared from non-cellular sources.
20            In another aspect, the solutions 116 and 118 may be provided in the form of a kit
    that includes one or more organ maintenance solutions. An exemplary maintenance
    solution may include components identified above in one or more fluid solutions for use in
    an organ perfusion fluid 108. In certain embodiments, the maintenance solution 116/118
    may include multiple solutions, such as a preservation solution 118 and a nutritional
                                                  -88-

     solution 116 and/or a supplemental composition or solution, or may include dry
     components that may be regenerated in a fluid to form one or more solutions 116/118. The
     kit may also comprise components from the solutions 116 and/or 118 in one or more
     concentrated solutions which, on dilution, provide a preservation, nutritional, and/or
  5  supplemental solution as described herein. The kit may also include a priming solution. In
     an exemplary embodiment, the maintenance solution includes a preservation solution 118
     and a nutritional solution 116 such as those described above, and a priming solution such
     as that described above.
              In certain embodiments, the kit is provided in a single package, wherein the kit
 10 includes one or more solutions (or components necessary to formulate the one or more
    solutions by mixing with an appropriate fluid), and instructions for sterilization, flow and
    temperature control during perfusion and use and other information necessary or
    appropriate to apply the kit to organ perfusion. In certain embodiments, a kit is provided
    with only a single solution 116, 118 and/or 116/118 (or set of dry components for use in a
15  solution upon mixing with an appropriate fluid), and the single solution 116, 118 and/or
    116/118 (or set of dry components) is provided along with a set of instructions and other
    information or materials necessary or useful to operate the solution 116, 118 and/or
    116/118 in the system 100.
             In another aspect, the systems, solutions and methods may be used to deliver
20  therapeutics to an organ during perfusion. For example, one or more of the solutions
    and/or systems described above may include one or more drugs, biologics, gene therapy
    vectors, or other therapeutics which are delivered to the organ during perfusion. Suitable
    exemplary therapeutics may include drugs, biologics, or both. Suitable drugs may include,
    for example, anti fungals, anti-microbials or anti-biotics, anti-inflamatories, anti
25  proliferatives, anti-virals, steroids, retinoids, NSAIDs, vitamin D3 and vitamin D3 analogs,
    calcium channel blockers, complement neutralizers, ACE inhibitors, immuno
    suppressants, and other drugs. Suitable biologics may include proteins; suitable biologics
    may also include vectors loaded with one or more genes for gene therapy application.
             For example, suitable steroids include but are not limited to androgenic and
30  estrogenic steroid hormones, androgen receptor antagonists and 5-a-reductase inhibitors,
    and corticosteroids. Specific examples include but are not limited to alclometasone,
    clobetasol, fluocinolone, fluocortolone, diflucortolone, fluticasone, halcinonide,
                                                    -89-

     mometasone, prednisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, triamcinolone,
     betamethasone, and dexamethasone, and various esters and acetonides thereof
              Suitable retinoids include but are not limited to retinol, retinal, isotretinoin,
     acitretin, adapalene, tazarotene, and bexarotene.
  5           Suitable NSAIDs include but are not limited to naproxen, suprofen, ketoprofen,
     ibuprofen, flurbiprofen, diclofenac, indomethacin, celecoxib, and rofecoxib.
             Suitable vitamin D3 analogues include but are not limited to doxercalciferol,
     seocalcitol, calcipotriene, tacalcitol, calcitriol, ergocalciferol, and calcifediol.
             Suitable anti-viral agents include but are not limited to trifluridine, cidofovir,
10   acyclovir, penciclovir, famciclovir, valcyclovir, gancyclovir, and docosanol.
             Suitable human carbonic anhydrase inhibitors include but are not limited to
    methazoliamide, acetazolamide, and dorzolamide.
             Suitable anti-proliferative agents include but are not limited to 5-FU, taxol,
    daunorubicin, and mitomycin.
15           Suitable antibiotic (antimicrobial) agents include but are not limited to bacitracin,
    chlorhexidine, chlorhexidine digluconate, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin,
    erythromycin,gentamicin, lomefloxacin, metronidazole, minocycline, moxifloxacin,
    mupirocin, neomycin, ofloxacin, polymyxin B, rifampicin, ruflozacin, tetracycline,
    tobramycin, triclosan, and vancomycin. The antiviral and antibacterial prodrugs described
20  herein may be used to treat appropriately responsive systemic infections.
             In certain embodiments, a solution system for use in a perfusion fluid 108,
    comprising a first chamber containing a first solution, such as a preservation solution 118,
    that includes one or more cardio stimulants and a plurality of amino acids that do not
    include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine, and a second chamber, containing a second
25  solution, such as a nutritional solution 116, that includes one or more carbohydrates, such
    as dextrose. The system may also include a sterilization system for sterilizing the first
    solution and the second solution prior to using the solutions to perfuse a heart, In some
    embodiments, one or more of the solutions 118 and 116 includes one or more therapeutics.
    In some embodiments the solution system includes a third chamber comprising a priming
30  solution, such as is described above, which may have one or more carbohydrates. In
                                                     -90-

    certain embodiments, the first solution 118 includes epinephrine, adenosine, insulin, one or
    more immuno-suppressants, a multi-vitamin, and/or one or more electrolytes.
            Certain experimetal data are available to describe certain embodiments of the
    solutions described herein and their use in organ perfusion. Certain data are set for in
 5 Figures 31-33. Figure 31 depicts a chart demonstrating electrolyte stability for an organ
    under going perfusion in forward mode according to an embodiment of the system 100. In
   the embodiment associated with Figure 31, the organ is a heart 102 wherein perfusion is
    conducted in forward mode (as described above) by pumping perfusion fluid 108
    containing solution 116/118 to the let atria 152 and out of the aorta 158. The rate of
10 perfusion is approximately 30 mL/hr. As can be seen from Figure 31, the levels of various
   electrolytes: sodium, potassium, calcium, and chloride ions, as well as dissolved glucose,
   remain at stable levels throughout the course of perfusion, from before the organ is
   cannulated to the perfusion system 100 to six hours after cannulation within the system
   100.
15         Figure 32 depicts a chart demonstrating electrolyte stability for an organ under
   going retrograde perfusion according to another embodiment of the system 100. In the
   embodiment associated with Figure 32, the organ is a heart wherein perfusion occurs by
   pumping the perfusion fluid 108 containing the solution 116/118 into the aorta 158 and
   through the coronary sinus 155. The rate of perfusion is approximately 30 mL/hr. As can
20 be seen from Figure 32, the levels of various electrolytes: sodium, potassium, calcium, and
   chloride ions, as well as dissolved glucose, remain at stable levels throughout the course of
   perfusion, from before the organ is cannulated to the perfusion system 100 to six hours
   after cannulation. Figure 32 also demonstrates that the levels of the electrolytes and
   glucose remain at levels similar to those for the base line (BL) normal physiological state
25 for the organ.
           Figure 33 depicts a chart demonstrating the arterial blood gas profile for an organ
   under going perfusion according to another embodiment of the invention. As can be seen
   from Figure 33, the levels of various blood gasses: carbon dioxide and oxygen, and pH
   remain at stable levels throughout the six hour course of perfusion. Figure 33 also
30 demonstrates that the levels of carbon dioxide, oxygen, and pH remain at levels similar to
   those for two base line (BL) measurements for the normal physiological state for the
                                                 -91-

  organ. Figures 31-33 demonstrate the ability of the present systems and methods to
  maintain an organ under stable physiological or near physiological conditions.
          It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction
  with the various illustrative embodiments, the forgoing description is intended to illustrate
5 and not limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended
  claims. For example, a variety of systems and/or methods may be implemented based on
  the disclosure and still fall within the scope of the invention. Other aspects, advantages,
  and modifications are within the scope of the following claims. All references cited herein
  are incorporated by reference in their entirety and made part of this application.
                                                -92-

               What is claimed is:
       1.      An organ care system comprising:
               a portable multiple use module including a portable chassis; and
               a single use disposable module including,
   5                   a disposable chassis sized and shaped for interlocking the single use module
               with the multiple use module for electro-mechanical interoperation with the
              multiple use module,
                       an organ chamber assembly mounted to the disposable chassis for
               containing a heart during perfusion and including a first interface for connecting to
 10            an aorta of the heart and a second interface for connecting to a pulmonary vein of
              the heart, and
                       a pump interface for receiving a pumping force from a pump and for
              translating the pumping force to.a perfusion fluid to pump the perfusion fluid to the
              organ chamber assembly.
 15  2.       The system of claim 1 comprising a third interface for connecting to a pulmonary
      artery of the heart.
      3.      The system of claim 1 comprising a reservoir for containing the perfusion fluid in
     fluid communication with the organ chamber assembly.
     4.       The system of claim 1, comprising a flow select valve for selecting between
20   pumping the perfusion fluid to the first interface and pumping the perfusion fluid to second
     interface.
     5.       The system of claim 1, wherein the disposable single use module includes a
     reservoir mounted to the chassis of the disposable single use module in fluid
     communication with the organ chamber assembly and sized and shaped for containing
25   perfusion fluid for the heart,
     6.       The system of claim 1 comprising a fluid heater for maintaining at least the
     perfusion fluid provided to the organ chamber assembly at a temperature between about
     320 C and about 370 C.
     7.       The system of claim 6, wherein the heater is a solid state heater.
30   8.       The system of claim 6, wherein the heater is located in the disposable single use
     module.
     9.      The system of claim 6, wherein the heater is located in the portable multiple use
     module.
                                                   -93-

      16.    The system of claim 6, wherein the fluid heater includes at least one heated plate in
     direct contact with the perfusion fluid.
      11.    The system of claim 6 including at least one temperature sensor for sensing a
     temperature of the heated plate.
  5   12.    The system of claim 6, wherein the fluid heater includes a pair of heated plates
     between which the perfusion fluid to be heated flows.
      13.    The system of claim 6 comprising a temperature sensor for sensing temperature of
     the perfusion fluid.
     14.     The system of claim 13, wherein the temperature sensor senses the temperature of
10   the perfusion fluid as it exits the fluid heater.
     15.     The system of claim 13, wherein the temperature sensor senses the temperature of
     the perfusion fluid as it enters the fluid heater.
     16.     The system of claim 6, wherein the fluid heater includes a heating element in
     contact with a plate, the plate being for direct contact with the perfusion fluid.
15   17.     The system of claim 16 comprising a temperature sensor for sensing temperature of
    the heater element,
     18.     The system of claim 1, wherein the portable multiple use module includes an
    optical interface and the disposable single module includes a corresponding optical
    interface for transfer of information between the portable multiple use module and the
20  disposable single use module.
     19.     The system of claim 1 comprising an oxygenator in fluid communication with an
    oxygen-containing gas supply for providing the oxygen-containing gas to the perfusion
    fluid.
    20.      The system of claim 19, wherein the oxygenator is located on the disposable single
25  use module.
    21.      The system of claim 1 comprising a sensor for determining an oxygen level in the
    perfusion fluid.
    22,      The system of claim 1, wherein the oxygen level includes an oxygen saturation of
    the perfusion fluid.
30  23.      The system of claim 21, wherein the sensor measures a hematocrit of the perfusion
    fluid.
    24.      The system of claim 23, wherein the sensor is positioned on the disposable single
    use module to sense the perfusion fluid entering the heart,
                                                    -94-

    25.      The system of claim 23, wherein the sensor is positioned on the disposable single
    use module to sense the perfusion fluid exiting the heart.
    26.     The system of claim 21, wherein the sensor includes an in-line cuvette through
    which the perfusion fluid passes, an optical source for directing light at the perfusion fluid
  5 passing through the cuvette, and an optical sensor for measuring an optical quality of the
    perfusion fluid passing through the cuvette.
    27.     The system of claim 21, wherein the sensor includes a seamless in-line cuvette
    through which the perfusion fluid passes.
    28.     The system of claim 1 comprising a flow rate sensor for sensing a flow rate of the
10  perfusion fluid to the organ chamber assembly.
    29.     The system of claim 1 comprising a flow rate sensor for sensing a flow rate of the
    perfusion fluid from the organ chamber assembly.
    30.     The system of claim 6 comprising a compliance chamber located between the fluid
    heater and the organ chamber assembly.
is  31.     The system of claim 29, wherein the compliance chamber is located between the
    fluid heater and the first interface.
    32.     The system of claim 29, wherein the compliance chamber is located between the
    fluid heater and the second interface.
    33.     The system of claim 6 comprising a compliance chamber located between the
20  pump interface and the fluid heater.
    34.     The system of claim 1 comprising a sampling port for sampling fluids from the
    organ chamber assembly.
    35.     The system of claim 34, wherein the sampling ports are located on the disposable
    single use module.
25  36.     The system of claim 1 comprising a plurality of ports for sampling fluids from the
    organ chamber assembly, interlocked such that sampling fluid from a first of the plurality
    of ports prohibits simultaneously sampling fluids from a second port of the plurality.
    37.     The system of claim 1 comprising at least one processor for collecting information
    from one or more sensors on the disposable module, and for providing The information to a
30  user interface.
    38.    -The system of claim 1 comprising at least one processor, located on the multiple
    use module for controlling, at least in part, operation of the disposable single use module.
                                                  -95-

     39.     The system of claim I including at least one processor for collecting information
     from one or more sensors, for identifying operating abnormalities and for communicating
     the operation abnormalities to the portable multiple use module.
     40.     The system of claim 1, wherein the pump interface mounts to the chassis of the
  5  single use module and includes features for fluid sealing interconnection with mating
     features on a pump on the multiple use module in response to interlocking the single use
     and multiple use modules.
    41.      The system of claim 1 comprising axially extending protuberances on the pump
     interface, the protuberances sized and shaped to abut a surface on the portable multiple use
 10 module during the interlocking between the multiple use module and the single use module
    to exert a compressing force between the pump interface and a pump on the multiple use
    module to form a fluid tight seal between the pump interface and the pump.
    42.      The system of claim 1, wherein the pump interface includes a flexible membrane
    for isolating the perfusion fluid from the pump driver.
15  43.      The system of claim 1, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a first.hinged
    cover for covering the organ chamber assembly, the first hinged cover including an outer
    frame and a flexible pliant membrane disposed on the outer frame.
    44.      The system of claim 43, wherein the flexible pliant membrane is sized and shaped
    for extending into the organ chamber assembly.
20  45.      The system module of claim 1, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
    second hinged cover for covering the first hinged cover.
    46.      The system of claim 45, wherein the second hinged cover is substantially rigid.
    47.      The system of claim 3, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes apertures
    through which the first second and third interfaces pass.
25  48.      The system of claim 1, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a pad
    assembly for supporting a heart, the pad assembly including at least one electrode for
    providing electrical stimulation to the heart.
    49.      The system of claim 48, wherein the at least one electrode is sized, shaped and
    positioned in the pad assembly to provide sutureless interconnection with the heart.
30  50.      The system of claim 1, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a pad
    assembly for supporting a heart, the pad assembly including at least one sensor for
    monitoring electrical signals from the heart.
                                                 -96-

     51.     The system of claim 48, wherein the at least one sensor is sized, shaped and
     positioned in the pad assembly to provide sutureless interconnection with the heart.
     52.     The system of claim 48, wherein the signals include an r-wave for the heart,
     53.     The system of claim 1, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a resealable
  5 membrane for automatically resealing subsequent to being pierced.
     54.     The system of claim 2, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a bypass tube
     for transferring the perfusion fluid across an inside of the chamber assembly between the
    first interface and the third interface and between the second interface and third interface.
     55.     The system of claim I comprising a pulsatile pump and a controller for controlling
10  a pumping characteristic of the pulsatile pump based at least in part on a monitored
    physiologic characteristic from a heart contained in the organ chamber assembly.
    56.      The system of claim 55, wherein the physiologic characteristics includes a rate at
    which the heart is beating, the pumping characteristic includes a stroke volume at which
    the pulsatile pump pumps, and the controller adjusts the stroke volume of the pulsatile
15  pump in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
    57.      The system of claim 55, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a time at
    which the pump pumps the perfusion fluid into the heart, the physiologic characteristic
    includes a representation of a portion of the heart being in a diastolic state, and the
    controller pumps the perfusion fluid to the heart during the diastolic state of the portion of
20  the heart.
    58.      The system of claim 57, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of a ventricle
    of the heart.
    59.      The system of claim 58, wherein the ventricle is the a left ventricle.
    60.      The system of claim 57, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of an atrium
25  of the heart.
    61.      The system of claim 60, wherein the atrium is a right atrium.
    62.      The system of claim 55, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a shape of
    waveform representative of a rate and stroke volume at which a pump pumps the perfusion
    fluid to the heart, and the controller alters the shape of the waveform in response to the
30  physiologic characteristic of the heart.
    63.      The system of claim 55, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a flow
    volume of fluid per unit time at which the pump pumps the perfusion fluid, and the
    controller alters the flow volume in response to the physiologic characteristic of the heart.
                                                   -97-

      64.     The system of claim 55, wherein the physiologic characteristic include an r-wave
     from the heart and the controller synchronizes the pumping of the perfusion fluid with the
     r-wave.
      65.     The system of claim 55, wherein the physiologic characteristic includes an r-wave
  5  from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid with
     the r-wave, adjusted by a user selectable pumping delay.
     66.     The system of claim 55, wherein the physiologic parameter is indicative of
    pressure.
     67.     The system of claim 55, wherein the physiologic characteristic includes a fluid
 10  flow rate out of the heart.
     68.     The system of claim 1 including a fault tolerant battery system including a plurality
     of batteries interlocked such that all of the plurality of batteries may not be removed from
    the system at least while the system is operating.
    69.      The system of claim 19, wherein the gas supply is an onboard gas supply.
15  70.      The system of claim 1 including a wireless user interface for providing information
    to and receiving commands from an operator.
    71.      A single use disposable module for a heart preservation system, the single use
    disposable module comprising,
             a chassis sized and shaped for interlocking a single use module with a multiple use
20  module for electro-mechanical interoperation in a heart preservation system,
             an organ chamber assembly mounted to the chassis for containing a heart during
    perfusion and including a first interface for connecting to an aorta of the heart and a
    second interface for connecting to a pulmonary vein of the heart, and
             a pump interface for receiving a pumping force from a pump and for translating the
25  pumping force to perfusion fluid to pump the perfusion fluid to the organ chamber
    assembly.
    72.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a third interface for connecting to a
    pulmonary artery of the heart.
    73.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a reservoir for containing the
30  perfusion fluid mounted to the chassis and in fluid communication with the organ chamber
    assembly.
                                                   -98-

    74.     The single use module of claim 71 comprising a flow select valve for selecting
   between pumping the perfusion fluid to the first interface and pumping the perfusion fluid
   to the second interface.
   75.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a fluid heater for maintaining at
 5 least the perfusion fluid provided to the organ chamber assembly at a temperature between
   about 32* C and about 370 C.
   76.   - The single use module of claim 75, wherein the fluid heater includes at least one
   hated plate in direct contact with the perfusion fluid.
   77.     The single use module of claim 76 including at least one temperature sensor for
10 sensing a temperature of the heated plate.
   78.     The single use module of claim 75, wherein the fluid heater includes a pair of
   heated plates between 'which the perfusion fluid to be heated flows.
   79.     The single use module of claim 75 comprising a temperature sensor for sensing
   temperature of the perfusion fluid.
15 80.     The single module of claim 79, wherein the temperature sensor senses the
   temperature of the perfusion fluid as it exits the fluid heater.
   81.     The single use module of claim 79, wherein the temperature sensor senses the
   temperature of the perfusion fluid as it enters the fluid heater.
   82.     The single use module of claim 75, wherein the fluid heater includes a heating
20 element in contact with a plate, the plate being for direct contact with the perfusion fluid.
   83.     The single use module of claim 82 comprising a temperature sensor for sensing
   temperature of the heater element.
   84.     The single use module of claim 71 comprising an optical interface for
   communicating with a corresponding optical interface on the multiple use module when
25 interlocked with the multiple use module.
   85.     The single use module of claim 71 comprising an oxygenator in fluid
   communication with the reservoir for providing oxygen to the perfusion fluid.
   86.     The disposable module of claim 71 comprising an oxygen sensor for determining
   an oxygen level in the perfusion fluid.
30 87.     The disposable module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen level includes an oxygen
   saturation level in the perfusion fluid.
   88.     The disposable module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen sensor measures a
   hematocrit of the perfusion fluid.
                                                -99-

       89.      The single use module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen sensor is positioned to
       measure the oxygen level of the perfusion fluid entering the heart.
       90.     The single use module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen sensor is positioned in a
       perfusion flow path out of the heart,
   5   91.     The single use module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen sensor includes an in-line
       cuvette through which the perfusion fluid passes, an optical source for directing light at the
      perfusion fluid passing through the cuvette, and an optical sensor for measuring an optical
       quality of the perfusion fluid passing through the cuvette.
       92.     The single use module of claim 86, wherein the oxygen sensor includes a seamless
 10   in-line cuvette through which the perfusion fluid passes.
      93.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a flow rate sensor for sensing a flow
      rate of the perfusion fluid to the organ chamber assembly.
      94.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a flow rate sensor for sensing a flow
      rate of the perfusion fluid from the organ chamber assembly.
 15   95.     The single use module of claim 75 comprising a compliance chamber located
      between the fluid heater and the organ chamber assembly. .
      96.     The single use module of claim 95, wherein the compliance chamber is located
      between the fluid heater and an organ chamber assembly interface for connecting to a
      pulmonary vein of a heart.
20    97.     The single use module of claim 95, wherein the compliance chamber is located
     between the fluid heater and an organ chamber assembly interface for connecting an aorta
      of a heart.
     98.      The single use module of claim 75 comprising a compliance chamber located
     between the pump interface and the fluid heater.
25   99.      The single use module of claim 71 comprising a sampling port for sampling fluids
     from the organ chamber assembly.
      100.    The single use module of claim 71 comprising a plurality of ports for sampling
     fluids from the organ chamber assembly, interlocked such that sampling fluid from a first
     of the plurality of ports prohibits simultaneously sampling fluids from a second port of the
30   plurality.
     101.     The single use module of claim 71 comprising one or more processors for
     collecting infonnation from one or more sensors on the single use module.
                                                  -100-

    102.    The single use module of claim 101 comprising an optical interface for providing
    the information from the one or more sensors to the multiple use module.
    103.    The single use module of claim 71, wherein the pump interface mounts to the
    chassis of the single use module and includes features for interlocking with mating features
 5  on the pump in response to the interlocking between the single use and multiple use
   modules for forming fluid sealing interconnection between the pump interface and the
   pump.
    104.    The single use module of claim 71 comprising axially extending protuberances on
   the pump interface, the protuberances sized and shaped to abut one or more surfaces on the
10 multiple use module during the interlocking between the multiple use module and the
   single use module to exert a compressing force between the pump interface and the pump
   such that the pump interface is aligned to receive a pump driver head.
    105.    The single use module of claim 71, wherein the pump interface includes a flexible
   membrane for isolating the perfusion fluid from the pump.
15  106.    The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
   first hinged cover for covering the organ chamber assembly, the first hinged cover
   including an outer frame and a flexible pliant membrane disposed on the outer frame.
   107.     The single use module of claim 106, wherein the flexible pliant membrane is sized
   and shaped for extending into the organ chamber assembly.
20 108.     The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
   second hinged cover for covering the first hinged cover.
   109.     The single use module of claim 108, wherein the second hinged cover is
   substantially rigid.
   110.     The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
25 pulmonary vein interface for fluid interconnection with a pulmonary vein of the heart.
   111.     The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
   pad assembly for supporting the heart, the pad assembly including at least one electrode
   for providing electrical stimulation to the heart.
   112.     The single use module of claim 111, wherein the at least one electrode is sized,
30 shaped and positioned on the pad assembly to provide sutureless interconnection with the
   heart.
                                                -101-

     113.    The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
     pad assembly for supporting a heart the pad assembly including at least one sensor for
     monitoring electrical signals from the heart.
     114.    The single use module of claim 113, wherein the at least one sensor is sized,
  5  shaped and positioned in the pad assembly to provide sutureless interconnection with the
     heart.
     115.    The single use module of claim 113, wherein the signals include ant-wave for the
     heart.
     116.    The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
 10 resealable membrane for automatically resealing subsequent to being pierced.
     117.   The single use module of claim 71, wherein the organ chamber assembly includes a
    bypass tube for transferring the perfusion fluid across an inside of the organ chamber
    assembly between the first interface and the third interface, and between the second
    interface and the third interface.
15   118.   The single use module of claim 74 comprising a triclde line for providing a small
    flow of perfusion fluid to the first interface when the second interface is selected on the
    flow select valve.
     119.   The single use module of claim 71 comprising an infusion port for injecting
    chemical solutions into the perfusion fluid.
20  120.    A single use module for a heart preservation system, the single use module
    comprising,
            a chassis sized and shaped for interlocking the single use module with a multiple
    use module for electro-mechanical interoperation in the heart preservation system,
            an organ chamber assembly mounted to the chassis for containing the heart during
25  perfusion and including an aorta interface for connecting to an aorta of a heart and a
    pflnionary vein interface for connecting to a pulmonary vein of a heart,
            a reservoir mounted to the chassis in fluid communication with the organ chamber
    assembly sized and shaped for containing perfusion fluid for the heart,
            a pump interface for receiving a pumping force from a pump and for translating the
30  pumping force to the perfusion fluid to pump the perfusion fluids to the heart, and
            a heater for maintaining at least the perfusion fluid provided to the organ chamber
    assembly at a temperature between about 32" C and about 374 C.
                                                 -102-

     121.    A single use smart module for a heart preservation system, the single use module
     comprising,
             a chassis sized and shaped for interlocking the single use module with a multiple
     use module for electro-mechanical interoperation in the heart preservation system,
  5          an organ chamber assembly mounted to the chassis for containing the heart during
     perfusion and including an aorta interface for connecting to an aorta of a heart and a
     pulmonary vein interface for connecting to a pulmonary vein of a heart,
             a reservoir mounted to the chassis in fluid communication with the organ chamber
     assembly sized and shaped for containing perfusion fluid for the heart,
10           a pmnp interface for receiving a pumping force from a pump and for translating the
    pumping force to the perfusion fluid to pump the perfusion fluids to the heart, and
             a processor for monitoring and controlling, at least in part, operation of the single
    use smart module.
     122.    An organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
15  assembly comprising,
             a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
             an intennediate lid for covering an opening to the housing for substantially
    enclosing the organ within the housing, the intermediate lid including a frame and flexible
    membrane suspended within the frame, the flexible membrane containing sufficient excess
20  membrane material to contact an organ contained within the chamber for providing a
    medical operator with indirect contact with the organ, and
             an outer lid independently operable from the intermediate lid for covering, at least
    partially, the intermediate lid.
    123.    The organ chamber assembly of claim 122, wherein the flexible membrane is
25  substantially opaque.
    124.    The organ chamber assembly of claim 122, wherein the flexible membrane is
    substantially translucent.
    125.    The organ chamber assembly of claim 122, wherein the flexible membrane is
    substantially transparent.
30  126.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising at least one intermediate lid hinge
    for mechanically coupling the intermediate lid with the housing for providing hinged
    interoperation between the intennediate lid and the housing.
                                                 -103-

      127.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising an intermediate lid latch for
      latching the intermediate lid closed on the housing independent from latching the outer lid
      closed.
      128.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising an outer lid hinge for
  5   mechanically coupling the intermediate lid with the housing for providing hinged
      interoperation between the outer lid and the housing.
      129.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising an outer lid latch for latching the
     outer lid closed on the housing independent from latching the intermediate lid closed.
      130.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising a gasket between the intermediate
 10  lid frame and one or more walls of the housing for providing a sealing interconnection
     between the intennediate lid and the walls of the housing.
     131.     The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising a gasket between the intermediate
     lid frame and the outer lid for providing a sealing interconnection between the intennediate
     lid and the outer lid.
 15  132.     The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising at least two ports for directing
     fluid to and from the organ.
     133.     The chamber assembly of claim 132 comprising a bypass tube for transferring fluid
    from first and second ones of the three ports through the chamber to a third one of the
    three ports out of the chamber.
20   134.     The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising a fluid drain for draining fluids out
    of the chamber into a reservoir.
     135.     The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising a port including a flexible
    resealing membrane for being punctured for providing direct contact with an organ
    contained within the chamber.
25  136.     The chamber assembly of claim I comprising,
              a pad assembly including a pad sized and shaped for interfitting within a bottom of
    the housing, and at least a first electrode adjustably positionable between the pad and an
    organ on the pad for sutureless contact with the organ.
    137.     The chamber assembly of claim 136, wherein the first electrode is configured for
30  providing an electrical stimulation to the organ.
    138.     The chamber assembly of claim 136, wherein the first electrode is configured for
    sensing electrical signals from the heart.
    139.     The system of claim 138, wherein the signals include an r-wave for the heart.
                                                  -104-

      140.    The chamber assembly of claim 136, wherein the pad includes a first through
      aperture for passing an electrical lead to the first electrode.
      141.    The chamber assembly of claim 136 comprising a second electrode adjustably
     positionable between the pad and the organ on the pad for contacting the organ, and
  5  wherein the pad includes a second through aperture for passing an electrical lead to the
     second electrode.
      142.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 including one or more electrical ports for
     transferring electrical signals from one or more electrodes within the chamber to
     instrumentation external to the housing.
 10  143.     The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising one or more electrical ports for
     providing one or more electrical defibrillation signals into the housing from an external
     Power sour-ce.
     144.    The chamber assembly of claim 122 comprising first and second fluid ports in a
     first wall of the housing, a third port in a second wall of the housing, and a base for
15   elevating the first and second ports upward relative to a horizontal plane passing through
    the third port.
     145.    An organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
     assembly comprising,
             a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
20           a lid for covering the housing to substantially enclose the organ,
             a pad sized and shaped for being positioned in a bottom portion of the housing for
    supporting the organ, and
             at least one electrode located on the pad and placed to be in contact with the organ.
     146.    The chamber assembly of claim 145, wherein the at least one electrode is location
25  adjustably mounted to the pad.
     147.    The chamber assembly of claim 145, wherein the pad includes a through aperture
    for passing an electrical lead of the at least one electrode.
     148.    The chamber assembly of claim 145, wherein the at least one electrode is
    removably, repositionably glue mounted to the pad.
30  149.     An organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
    assembly comprising,
             a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
             a lid for covering the housing to substantially enclose the organ, and
                                                   -105-

             electrodes located in a bottom portion of the housing and positioned for contact
     with the organ.
      150.   The chamber assembly of claim 149, wherein the electrodes are repositionably
     located within the bottom portion of the housing.
  5  151.   An organ care system comprising:
             a chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
     assembly including,
                      a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
                     an intermediate lid for covering an opening to the housing for substantially
10           enclosing the organ within the housing, the intermediate lid including a frame and
             flexible membrane suspended within the frame, the flexible membrane containing
             sufficient excess membrane material to contact an organ contained within the
            chamber for providing a medical operator with indirect contact with the organ, and
                     an outer lid independently operable from the intermediate lid for covering,
15          at least partially, the intermediate lid; and
            a pump for circulating a perfusion solution to the organ to preserve the organ.
    152.    An organ care system comprising:
            an organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
    assembly comprising,
20                   a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
                     a lid for covering the housing to substantially enclose the organ,
                     a pad sized and shaped for being positioned in a bottom portion of the
            housing for supporting the organ, and
                     at least one electrode located on the pad and placed to be in contact with the
25          organ; and
            a pump for circulating a perfusion solution to the organ to preserve the organ.
    153.    An care preservation system comprising:
            an organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
    assembly comprising,
30                   a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
                     a lid for covering the housing to substantially enclose the organ, and
                     electrodes located in a bottom portion of the housing and positioned for
            contact with the organ; and
                                                  -106-

              a pump for circulating a perfusion solution to the organ to preserve the organ.
      154.    An organ care system comprising:
              an organ chamber assembly for containing an organ for preservation, the chamber
              assembly comprising,
  5                   a housing having a bottom and walls for containing the organ,
                     a lid for covering the housing to substantially enclose the organ, and
                     electrodes located in a bottom portion of the housing and positioned for
             contact with the organ;
             a pump for circulating a perfusion solution to the organ to preserve the organ; and
 10          a heater for heating the perfusion solution.
     155.   A blood product heater comprising,
             an inlet for flowing a blood product into the heater,
             an outlet for flowing the blood product out of the heater,
             a channel extending between the inlet and the outlet fonned between first and
15  second flow channel plates having substantially bioinert blood product contacting surfaces
    for providing direct contact with the blood product flowing through the channel, and
            a first heater thermally coupled to the first flow channel plate for heating the first
    flow channel plate.
     156.   The blood product heater of claim 155 comprising a second heater thermally
20  coupled to the second flow channel plate for heating the second flow channel plate.
     157.   The blood product heater of claim 156 comprising a first heater plate disposed
    between the first heater and the first flow channel plate for coupling heat from the first
    heater to the first flow channel plate.
    158.    The blood product heater of claim 157 comprising a second heater plate disposed
25  between the second heater and the second flow channel plate for coupling heat from the
    second heater to the second flow channel plate.
    159.    The blood product heater of claim 158 comprising a blood product temperature
    sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of temperature of the blood product near
    the outlet of the blood product heater.
30  160.    The blood product heater of claim 158 comprising a first heater temperature sensor
    for providing ari electrical signal indicative of a temperature of the first heater.
    161.    The blood product heater of claim 160 comprising a second heater temperature
    sensor 'forproviding an electrical signal indicative of a temperature of the second heater.
                                                  -107-

    162.    The blood product heater of claim 155 comprising a blood product temperature
    sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of temperature of the blood product near
   the outlet of the blood product heater.
    163.    The blood product heater of claim 155 comprising a first plate temperature sensor
 5 for providing an electrical signal indicative of a temperature of the first flow channel plate.
    164.    The blood product heater of claim 155 comprising a first heater plate disposed
   between the first heater and the first flow channel plate for coupling heat from the first
   heater to the first flow channel plate.
    165.    The blood product heater of claim 164, wherein the first heater plate is formed
10 from aluminum.
    166.    The blood product heater of claim 164 comprising a first resilient pad disposed on
   the first heater for maintaining the first heater in contact with the first heater plate in
   response to compressive force.
    167.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood contacting surfaces of
15 the first and second flow channel plates are formed from titanium.
    168.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the first heater uses up to about
   200 Watts of power.
    169.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater is sized
   and shaped to transition blood flowing through the channel at a rate of between about 300
20 ml/min. and about 5 liter/min. ftom a temperature of less than about 30* C to a temperature
   of at least about 37  4C in between about 15 min. and about 25 min., without causing
   substantial haemolysis.
    170.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater is sized
   and shaped to transition blood flowing through the channel at a rate of between about 300
25 m1/lmin. and about 5 liter/min. from a temperature of less than about 300 C to a temperature
   of at least about 37 *C in between about 15 min. and about 25 min., without causing
   denaturing of proteins.
    171.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater is a single
   use disposable assembly.
30  172.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater is fonned
   at least in part from a polycarbonate.
    173.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater weights
   less than about 5 lbs.
                                                 -108-

    174.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater weights
   less than about 4 lbs.
    175.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater weights
   less than about 3 lbs.
 5  176.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater weights
   less than about 2 lbs.
    177.    The blood product heater of claim 155, wherein the blood product heater weights
   less than about 1 lb.
    178.    An organ care system comprising,
10          a blood product heater including,
                     an inlet for flowing a blood product into the heater,
                     an outlet for flowing the blood product out ofithe heater,
                     a channel extending between the inlet and the outlet formed between first
            and second flow channel plates having substantially bioinert blood product
15          contacting surfaces for providing direct contact with the blood product flowing
            through the channel, and
                     a first heater thermally coupled to the first flow channel plate for heating
            the first flow channel plate; and
            a pump for circulating heated blood product to an organ being preserved.
20 179.    The organ care system of claim 178 comprising a second heater thermally coupled
   to the second flow channel plate for heating the second flow channel plate to a temperature
   of up to about 444C.
   180.    The organ care system of claim 179, wherein the blood product heater includes a
   first heater plate disposed between the first heater and the first flow channel plate for
25 coupling heat from the first heater to the first flow channel plate.
   181.     The organ care system of claim 180, wherein the blood product heater includes a
   second heater plate disposed between the second heater and the second flow channel plate
   for coupling heat from the second heater to the second flow channel plate.
   182.     The organ care system of claim 181, wherein the blood product heater includes a
30 blood product temperature sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of
   temperature of the blood product near the outlet of the blood product heater.
                                                  -109-

      183.    The organ care system of claim 181, wherein the blood product heater includes a
     first heater temperature sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of a temperature
     of the first heater.
      184.    The organ care system of claim 183, wherein the blood product heater includes a
  5  second heater temperature sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of a
     temperature of the second heater.
     185.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater includes a
     blood product temperature sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of
     temperature of the blood product near the outlet of the blood product heater.
 10  186.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater includes a
     first heater temperature sensor for providing an electrical signal indicative of a temperature
     of the first heater.
     187.    The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater includes a
    first heater plate disposed between the first heater and the first flow channel plate for
15  coupling heat from the first heater to the first flow channel plate.
     188.    The organ care system of claim 187, wherein the first heater plate is formed from
    aluminum.
     189.    The organ care system of claim 187, wherein the blood product heater includes a
    first resilient pad disposed on the first heater for maintaining the first heater in contact with
20  the first heater plate in response to compressive force.
    190.     The organ care system of claim 179, wherein the blood contacting surfaces of the
    first and second flow channel plates are fonned from titanium.
    191.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the first heater uses up to about 100
    about 200 Watts of power.
25  192.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the first blood product heater is sized
    and shaped to transition blood flowing through the channel at a rate of between about 300
    mi/min. and about 5 liter/min. from a temperature of less than about 30* C to a temperature
    of at least about 37 "C in between about 15 min. and about 25 min., without causing
    substantial haemolysis.
30  193.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the first blood product heater is sized
    and shaped to transition blood flowing through the channel at a rate of between about 300
    mi/min. and about 5 liter/min. from a temperature of less than about 304 C to a temperature
                                                  -110-

    of at least about 37 'C in between about 15 min. and about 25 min., without causing
    substantial haemolysis denaturing of proteins.
    194.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater is a single
    use disposable assembly.
 5  195.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater is formed at
    least in part from a polycarbonate.
    196.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater weights less
   than about 5 lbs.
    197.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater weights less
10 than about 4 lbs.
    198.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater weights less
   than about 3 lbs,
    199.     The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater weights less
   than about 2 lbs.
15 200.      The organ care system of claim 178, wherein the blood product heater weights less
   than about 1 lbs.
   201.      The organ care system of claim 178 comprising a conduit for flowing the blood
   product to the blood product heater, wherein the conduit has an inside cross-sectional area
   approximately equal to a cross-sectional area of the channel of the blood product heater.
20 202.     The organ care system of claim 178 comprising a conduit for flowing the blood
   product away from the blood product heater, wherein the conduit has an inside cross
   sectional area approximately equal to a cross-sectional area of the channel of the blood
   product heater.
   203.      The organ care system of claim 178 comprising conduits for circulating the blood
25 product, wherein the conduits have an inside cross-sectional area approximately equal to a
   cross-sectional area of the channel of the blood product heater.
   204.     A pump interface assembly for interfacing with a pump driver, the interface
   assembly comprising,
30           a housing including an exterior side and an interior side,
             a first deformable membrane in fluid tight interconnection with the interior side of
   the housing to form a chamber between an interior side of the deformable membrane and
   the interior side of the housing,
                                                 -111-

              a fluid inlet for receiving an organ perfusion fluid and for providing the fluid into
     the chamber, and
              a fluid outlet for expelling the organ perfusion fluid out of the chamber toward an
     organ chamber in an organ preservation system in response to a pump driver deforming the
  5  first deformable membrane in a direction toward the interior side of the housing.
     205.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204 including a bracket for fitting over a
     periphery of the first deformable membrane to form a fluid tight seal between the a
     periphery of the interior side of the deformable membrane and a periphery of the interior
     side of the housing.
 1o 206.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204 including a gasket for providing a fluid
    tight interconnection with the pump driver.
    207.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204 wherein the fluid outlet is a one way
    fluid outlet.
    208.     The pump interface assembly of claim 207, wherein the one way fluid outlet
is  includes a ball valve assembly oriented to close in response to the pump driver moving in a
    direction away from the interior surface of the housing, and oriented to open to expel the
    organ perfusion fluid through the fluid outlet in response to the pump driver moving in a
    direction to deform the first deformable membrane toward the interior side of the housing.
    209.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204 including a plurality of projections out
20  of the exterior side of the housing sized and shaped for engaging with and abutting one or
    more surfaces to force the housing in a direction toward a pump driver assembly to form a
    fluid tight seal with the pump driver assembly.
    210.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204 comprising a second deformable
    membrane mounted adjacent to the first deformable membrane to provide a fault tolerant
25  seal in case the first deformable membrane fails,
    211.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204, wherein the pump interface assembly is
    fonned at least in part from a polycarbonate.
    212.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204, wherein the pump interface assembly is
    a single use disposable assembly.
30  213.     The pump interface assembly of claim 204, wherein the fluid inlet is sized, shaped
    and oriented for receiving a gravity feed of the perfusion fluid.
    214.     An organ preservation system comprising,
                                                   -112-

              a pump including a pump driver for circulating a perfusion solution to an organ;
     and
               a pump interface assembly for interfacing with the pump driver, the interface
               assembly including,
  5                   a housing having an exterior side and an interior side,
                      a first deformable membrane in fluid tight interconnection with the interior
              side of the housing to form a chamber between an interior side of the deformable
              membrane and the interior side of thc housing and for isolating the pump driver
              from the perfusion fluid,
 10                   a fluid inlet for receiving a perfusion fluid and for providing the fluid into
              the chamber, and
                     a fluid outlet for expelling the organ perfusion fluid out of the chamber
    toward an organ chamber in an organ preservation system in response to a pump driver
    deforming the deformable membrane in a direction toward the interior side of the housing..
15  215.     The system of claim 214, wherein the pump interface assembly includes a bracket
    for fitting over a periphery of the first defornable membrane to form a fluid tight seal
    between a periphery of the interior side of the deformable membrane and a periphery of
    the interior side of the housing.
    216.     The system of claim 214, wherein the pump interface assembly includes a gasket
20  for providing a fluid tight interconnection with the pump driver.
    217.     The pump interface assembly of claim 214 wherein the fluid outlet is a one way
    fluid outlet.
    218.     The pump interface assembly of claim 217, wherein the one way fluid outlet
    includes a ball valve assembly oriented to close in response to the pump driver moving in a
25  direction away from the interior surface of the housing, and oriented to open to expel the
    organ perfusion fluid through the fluid outlet in response to the pump driver moving in a
    direction to deform the first deformable membrane toward the interior side of the housing.
    219.     The pump interface assembly of claim 214 including a plurality of projections out
    of the exterior side of the housing sized and shaped for engaging with and abutting one or
30  more surfaces to force the housing in a direction toward a pump driver assembly to form a
    fluid tight seal with the pump driver assembly.
                                                    -113-

    220.     The pump interface assembly of claim 214 comprising a second deformable
    membrane mounted adjacent to the first deformable membrane to provide a fault tolerant
    seal in case the first deformiable membrane fails.
    221.     The pump interface assembly of claim 214, wherein the pump interface assembly is
 5  formed at least in part from a polycarbonate.
    222.    The pump interface assembly of claim 214, wherein the pump interface assembly is
    a single use disposable assembly.
    223.    The pump interface assembly of claim 214, wherein the fluid inlet is sized, shaped
    and oriented for receiving a gravity feed of the perfusion fluid.
10
    224.    A method of preserving a heart ex vivo comprising,
                     placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ care system,
                     pumping a perfusion fluid to the heart, the perfusion fluid being at a
            temperature of between about 250 C and about 370 C, and at a volume of between
15          about 200 m/min and about 5 L/min,
                     monitoring one or more physiologic characteristics of the heart while it is
            beating in the protective chamber, and
                     adjusting a pumping characteristic based at least in part on the physiologic
            characteristics to preserve the heart ex vivo.
20 225.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include electrical
    characteristics.
   226.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include pressure
   characteristics.
   227.     The method of claim 224, wherein the perfusion fluid is blood product based.
25 228.     The method of claim 224, wherein the perfusion fluid is synthetic blood substitute
   based.
   229.     The method of claim 224 comprising pumping the perfusion fluid with a pulsatile
   pump.
   230.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include a rate at
30 which the heart is beating, the pumping characteristic includes a rate at which the pulsatile
   pump pumps, and the method includes adjusting the rate of the pulsatile pump in response
   to the rate at which the heart is beating.
                                                  -114-

      231.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include a rate at
      which the heart is beating, the pumping characteristic includes a stroke volume at which
      the pulsatile pump pumps, and the method includes adjusting the stroke volume of the
      pulsatile pump in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
  5   232.    The method of claim 224, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a time at
      which the pump pumps the perfusion fluid into the heart, the physiologic characteristics
      include a representation of a portion of the heart being in a diastolic state, and the method
       icludes pumping the perfusion fluid to the heart during the diastolic state of the portion of
     the heart.
 10  233.     The method of claim 232, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of a
     ventricle of the heart.
     234.     The method of claim 233, wherein the ventricle is the a left ventrIcle.
     235.     The method of claim 232, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of an atrium
     of the heart.
15   236.     The method of claim 235, wherein the atrium is a right atrium.
     237,    The method of claim 1224 wherein the pumping characteristic includes a shape of
     waveform representative of a rate and stroke volume at which a pump pumps the perfusion
     fluid to the heart, and the method includes altering the shape of the waveform in response
     to the physiologic characteristics of the heart
20   238.    The method of claim 224, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a flow
    volume of fluid per unit time at which the pump pumps the perfusion fluid, and the method
     includes altering the flow volume in response to the physiologic characteristics of the
    heart.
    239.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
25  wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
    with the r-wave.
    240.     The method of claim 224, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
    wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
    with the r-wave, adjusted by a user selectable pumping delay.
30  241.     The method of claim 224 comprising flowing the perfusion fluid through a channel
    formed between two heated plates of a perfusion fluid heater to maintain the perfusion
    fluid at a temperature of between about 324 C and about 374 C.
                                                 -115-

     242.    The method of claim 241 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
     fluid as it enters the channel.
     243.    The method of claim 241 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
     fluid as it exits the channel.
  5  244.    The method of claim 241 comprising monitoring temperature of at perfusion fluid
     heater.
     245.    The method of claim 224 comprising isolating a pump driver from the perfusion
     fluid for performing the pumping.
     246.    The method of claim 224 comprising,
10                    pumping the perfusion fluid to the coronary sinus of the heart via retrograde
             perfusion of an aorta of the heart,
                      providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right
             ventricle of the heart, and
                      providing a flow volume of between about 200 m/min and about 400
15           ml/min of the perfusion fluid to the heart.
    247.     The method of claim 246 comprising maintaining the pumping of the perfusion
    fluid into the heart via the aorta and the flow of perfusion fluid away from the heart via the
    right ventricle for greater than about 2 hours while maintaining the heart in suitable
    condition for transplantation.
20  248.     A method of preserving a heart ex vivo comprising,
                      placing a heart on one or more electrodes in a protective chamber of a
    portable organ care system,
                      pumping a perfusion fluid to the heart, the perfusion fluid being at a
    temperature of between about 25* C and about 370 C, and at a volume of between about
25  200 m1/min and about 5 L/min, and
                      monitoring electrical signals from the electrodes while pumping the
    perfusion fluid to the heart to preserve the heart ex vivo.
    249.     The method of claim 248, wherein the electrical signals include a representation of
    a rate at which the heart is beating, and the method includes adjusting a rate at which the
30  perfusion fluid is pumped to the heart in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
    250.     The method of claim 248, wherein the electrical signals include a representation of
    a rate at which the heart is beating, and the method includes adjusting a volume of
    perfusion fluid pumped to the heart in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
                                                  -116-

      251.       The method of claim 248, wherein the electrical signals include a representation of
      a portion of the heart being in a diastolic state, and the method includes pumping the
      perfusion fluid to the heart during the diastolic state of the portion of the heart.
      252.       The method of claim 251, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of a
  5   ventricle of the heart.
      253.       The method of claim 252, wherein the ventricle is the a left ventricle.
      254.      The method of claim 251, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of an atrium
      of Ilthe heart.
     255.       The method of claim 254, wherein the atrium is a right atrium.
 10  256.       The method of claim 248, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a shape of
     waveform representative of a rate and stroke volume at which a pump pumps the perfusion
     fluid to the heart, and the method includes altering the shape of the waveform in response
     to the physiologic characteristics of the heart.
     257.       The method of claim 248, wherein the pumping characteristic includes a flow
15   volume of fluid per unit time at which the pump pumps the perfusion fluid, and the method
     includes altering the flow volume in response to the physiologic characteristics of the
     heart.
     258.       The method of claim 248, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
     wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
20  with the r-wave.
    259.        The method of claim 248, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
     wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
    with the r-wave, adjusted by a user selectable pumping delay.
    260.        The method of claim 248 comprising,
25                     pumping the perfusion fluid into the heart via an aorta of the heart,
                       providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right
               ventricle of the heart, and providing a flow volume of between about 200 ml and
                about 400 ml of the perfusion fluid to the heart.
    261.       The method of claim 248 comprising maintaining the pumping of the perfusion
30  fluid into the heart via the aorta and the flow of perfusion fluid away from the heart via the
    right ventricle greater than about 2 hours while maintaining the heart in suitable condition
    for transplantation.
                                                   .-117-

      262.    The method of claim 248, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
      wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
      with the r-wave.
      263.    The method of claim 248, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
  5   wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
     with the r-wave, adjusted by a user selectable pumping delay.
      264.    The method of claim 248 comprising flowing the perfusion fluid through a channel
     formed between two heated plates of a perfusion fluid heater to maintain the perfusion
     fluid at a temperature of between about 32' C and about 37* C.
 10  265.     The method of claim 264 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
     fluid as it enters the channel
     266.     The method of claim 264 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
     fluid at it exits the channel.
     267.     The method of claim 264 comprising monitoring temperature of the perfusion fluid
15   heater.
     268.    A method of transporting a heart ex vivo comprising,
                       placing a heart for transplantation in a protective chamber of a portable
     organ care system,
                       pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via an aorta of the heart,
20                     providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right
    ventricle of the heart, and
                       transporting the heart in the portable organ care system from a donor site to
    a recipient site while pumping the perfusion fluid into the heart via the aorta and providing
    the flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via the right ventricle.
25  269.     The method of claim 268 comprising monitoring physiologic parameters of the
    heart while transporting it.
    270.     The method of claim 269, wherein the physiologic parameters include a rate at
    which the heart is beating, and the method includes adjusting a rate at which the perfusion
    fluid is pumped to the heart in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
30  271.     The method of claim 269, wherein the physiologic parameters include a rate at
    which the heart is beating, and the method includes adjusting a volume of perfusion fluid
    pumped to the heart in response to the rate at which the heart is beating.
                                                    -118-

   272.     The method of claim 269, wherein the physiologic parameters include a
   representation of a portion of the heart being in a diastolic state, and the method includes
   pumping the perfusion fluid to the heart during the diastolic state of the portion of the
   heart.
 5 273.     The method of claim 272, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of a
   ventricle of the heart.
   274.     The method of claim 273, wherein the ventricle is the a left ventricle.
   275.     The method of claim 272, wherein the diastolic state is a diastolic state of an atrium
   of the heart.
to 276.     The method of claim 274, wherein the atrium is a right atrium.
   277.     The method of claim 268 comprising maintaining the pumping of the perfusion
   fluid into the heart via the aorta and the flow of perfusion fluid away from the heart via the
   right ventricle for greater than about two hours while maintaining the heart in suitable
   condition for transplantation.
15 278.     The method of claim 268, whereini. the physiologic characteristics include an r
   wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
   with the r-wave.
   279.    The method of claim 268, wherein the physiologic characteristics include an r
   wave from the heart and the method includes synchronizing pumping of the perfusion fluid
20 with the r-wave, adjusted by a user selectable pumping delay.
   280.     The method of claim 268 comprising flowing the perfusion fluid through a channel
   formed between two heated plates of a solid state heater to maintain the perfusion fluid at a
   temperature of between about 324 C and about 370 C.
   281.     The method of claim 268 operating a flow switch external to the protective
25 chamber to alter a flow of the perfusion fluid such that the perfusion fluid is pumped into
   the heart via a left atrium of the heart and is flowed away from the heart via the right
   ventricle and a left ventricle of the heart.
   282.     The method of claim 281 comprising performing the operating step subsequent to
   arrival at the recipient site.
30 283.     A method of preserving a heart ex vivo comprising,
                    placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ care system,
                    providing a perfusion fluid to the heart while the heart is in the protective
   chamber, and
                                                  -119-

                        flowing the perfusion fluid to the heart through a channel fonned between
       two heated plates to heat the perfusion fluid to a temperature of between about 32" C and
       about 370 C to preserve the heart ex vivo.
      284.     The method of claim 283 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
  5   fluid as it enters the channel.
      285.     The method of claim 283 comprising monitoring the temperature of the perfusion
      fluid at it exits the channel.
      286.     The method of claim 283 comprising monitoring temperature of at least one of the
      heated plates.
 10   287.     A method of evaluating a heart for transplantation comprising,
              placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ care system,
              pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via an aorta of the heart,
              providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right ventricle of
     the heart,
 15           transporting the heart via the portable organ care system from a donor site to a
     recipient site while pumping the perfusion fluid into the heart via the aorta and providing
     the flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via the right ventricle,
              prior to transplanting the heart into a recipient, operating a flow control external to
     the protective chamber to alter a flow of the perfusion fluid such that the perfusion fluid is
20   pumped into the heart via a left atrium of the heart and is flowed away from the heart via
     the right ventricle and the left ventricle of the heart, and
              performing an evaluation of the heart.
     288.     The method of claim 287 wherein the evaluation of the organ includes performing
     an echocardiogram on the heart.
25   289.     The method of claim 287 wherein the evaluation of the organ includes measuring
     arterial blood gases.
     290.     The method of claim 287 wherein the evaluation of the organ includes performing
     an HLA matching test.
     291.     A method of providing therapy to a heart comprising,
30           placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ care system,
             pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via an aorta of the heart,
             providing a flow of the perfusion fluid away from the heart via a right ventricle of
    the heart,
                                                   -120-

             operating a flow control external to the protective chamber to alter a flow of the
    perfusion fluid such that the perfusion fluid is pumped into the heart via a left atrium of the
     heart and is flowed away from the heart via the right ventricle and the left ventricle of the
    heart, and
  5          administering one or more of immunosuppressive treatment, chemotherapy, gene
    therapy and irradiation therapy to the heart.
    292.     A method of transplanting a heart comprising,
             arresting a heart of a donor,
             explanting the heart from the donor,
10          transferring the heart to an organ care system,
            pumping a perfusion fluid to the heart in less than 30 minutes after explanting the
    heart from the donor, the perfusion fluid being at a temperature of between about 320 C
    and about 37* C.
    293.    The method of claim 292 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
15  between about 340 C and about 37* C in less than about 25 minutes after transferring the
    heart to the organ care system.
    294.    The method of claim 292 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
    between about 34* C and about 370 C in less than about 20 minutes after transferring the
    heart to the organ care system.
20  295.    The method of claim 292 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
    between about 344 C and about 374 C in less than about 18 minutes after transferring the
    heart to the organ care system.
    296.    The method of claim 292 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
    between about 340 C and about 370 C in less than about 15 minutes after transferring the
25  heart to the organ care system.
    297.    The method of claim 292 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
    between about 340 C and about 370 C in less than about 10 minutes after transferring the
    heart to the organ care system.
    298.    A method of transplanting a heart comprising,
30          explanting the heart from the donor and transferring the heart to an organ care
    system without arresting the heart, and
                                                -121-

              pumping a perfusion fluid to the heart in less than 30 minutes after explanting the
     heart from the donor, the perfusion fluid being at a temperature of between about 320 C
     and about 370 C.
     299.     The method of claim 298 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
  5  between about 340 C and about 370 C in less than about 10 minutes after transferring the
     heart to the organ care system.
     300.     The method of claim 299 comprising bringing the heart to a temperature of
     between about 34* C and about 37' C in less than about 5 minutes after transferring the
     heart to the organ care system.
 10  301.     A method of evaluating a heart for transplantation comprising,
              placing a heart in a protective chamber of a portable organ cure system,
              pumping a perfusion fluid into the heart via a ventricle of the heart for a period of
     at least about 12 hours, the perfusion fluid being at a temperature of between about 32' C
     and about 374 C, and
 15           performing an HLA test on the heart while the perfusion fluid is pumping.
    302.      A composition for use in a fluid for perfusing a heart, comprising one or more
    carbohydrates, one or more cardio stimulants, and a plurality of amino acids that do not
    include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine.
    303.      The composition of claim 302, wherein one or more cardio stimulants includes a
20  catecholamine.
    304.      The composition of claim 302, wherein one or more cardio stimulants includes
    epinephrine.
    305.     The composition of claim 302, fluther comprising a blood product.
    306.     The composition of claim 302, further comprising whole blood.
25  307.     The composition of claim 302, further comprising whole blood that has been at
    least partially depleted of leukocytes.
    308.     The composition of claim 302, further comprising whole blood that has been at
    least partially depleted of platelets.
    309.     The composition of claim 302, further comprising a phosphate.
30  310.     The composition of claim 302, further comprising insulin.
                                                 -122-

   311.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising at least one vitamin.
   312.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising adenosine.
   313.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising a magnesium ion source.
   314.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising epinephrine, a phosphate,
 5 insulin, a multi-vitamin, adenosine and a magnesium ion source.
   315.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising one or more electrolytes.
   316.    The composition of claim 315, wherein the one or more electrolytes includes
   potassium, sodium, calcium, chloride, sulfate, or a combination thereof.
   317.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising an immuno-suppressant.
10 318.    The composition of claim 317, further comprising a steroid.
   319.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising a therapeutic.
   320.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising a vector loaded with one or more
   genes.
   321.    The composition of claim 302, further comprising an aqueous medium.
15 322.    The composition of claim 302, comprising:
                               Adenosine
                               Calcium Chloride dihydrate
                               Glycine
                               Alanmne
                               Arginine
                               Aspartic Acid
                               Glutamic Acid
                               Histidine
                               Isoleucine
                               Leucine
                               Methionine
                               Phenylalanine
                               Proline
                                              -123-

                          Serine
                         Thereonine
                          Tryptophan
                         Tyrosine
                         Valine
                         Lysine
                         Magnesium Sulfate Heptahydrate
                         Potassium Chloride
                         Sodium Chloride
                         Dextrose
                         Sodium Glycerophosphate
                         Epinephrine
                         Insulin
                         MVI-Adult
                         SoluMedrol
                         Sodium Bicarbonate
323.   The composition of Claim 322, comprising the following components in the
following amounts per about 1000 mL of aqueous medium:
                            Component                      Amount
               Adenosifne                               about 675 mg
                                                         about 825 mg
               Calcium Chloride dihydrate             about 2100 mg
                                                        about 2600 mg
               Glycine                                 about 315 mg
                                                        about 385 mg
               L-Alanine                               about 150 mg
                                                        about 200 mg
               L-Arginine                              about 600 mg
                                                        about 800 mg
               L-Aspartic Acid                          about 220 mg
                                                        about 270 mg
                                        -124-

              Component              Amount
 L-Glutamic Acid                 about 230 mg
                                  about 290 mg
 L-Histidine                     about 200 mg
                                  about 250 mg
 L-Isoleucine                     about 100 mg
                                  about 130 mg
 L-Leucine                       about 300 mg
                                  about 380 mg
L-Methionine                     about 50 mg
                                   about 65 mg
L-Phenylalanine                  about 45 mg
                                   about 60 mg
L-Proline                       about 110 mg
                                  about 140 mg
L-Serine                         about 80 mg
                                  about 105 mg
L-Thereonine                     about 60 mg
                                   about 80 mg
L-Tryptophan                     about 30 mg
                                  about 40 mg
L-Tyrosine                       about 80 mg
                                 about 110 mg
L-Valine                        about 150 mg
                                 about 190 mg
Lysine Acetate                  about 200 mg
                                 about 250 mg
Magnesium Sulfate Heptahydrate  about 350 mg
                                 about 450 mg
Potassium Chloride               about 15 mg
                                  about 25 mg
Sodium Chloride                about 1500 mg
                                about 2000 mg
Dextrose                          about 25 g
                                   about 120 g
Epinephrine                    about 0.25 mg
                                 about 1.0 mg
                        ~125-

                                    Component                         Amount
                        Insulin                                   about 75 Units
                                                                  about 150 Units
                        MVI-Adult                                    1 unit vial
                        SoluMedrol                                about 200 mg
                                                                       500 mg
                        Sodium Bicarbonate                       about 10-25 mEn
    324,     The composition of claim 323, further including a priming solution comprising the
    following components in the following relative amounts:
                                     Component                          Amount
                       Manitol                                        about 12.5 g
                       Sodium Chloride                                about 4.8 g
                       Potassium Chloride                           about 185 mg
                      Magnesium Sulfate heptahydrate                about 185 mg
                       Sodium Glycerophosphate                      about 900 mg
    325.    The composition of claim 324, wherein the priming solution further includes
    aqueous fluid.
 5 326.     The composition of claim 325, wherein the components of the priming solution are
   in relative amounts per about 500 mL of aqueous fluid.
   327.     The composition of claim 302, wherein the composition, when perfused with whole
   blood through a heart, prolongs the heart's ability to continue beating ex-vivo at a
   physiological temperature.
10 328.     A solution system for perfusing a heart, comprising
            a first chamber containing a first solution that includes one or more dardio
   stimulants and a plurality of amino acids that do not include asparagine, glutamine, or
   cysteine, and
            a second chamber, containing a second solution that includes one or more
15 carbohydrates.
   329.     The solution system of claim 328, including a sterilization system for sterilizing the
   first solution and the second solution prior to using the solutions to perfuse a heart.
                                                 -126-

     330.     The solution system of claim 328, including a third chamber comprising a priming
    solution.
    331.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the one or more cardio stimulants
    includes epinephrine.
  5 332:     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the one or more carbohydrates in the
    second solution includes dextrose.
    333.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the first solution includes adenosine.
    334.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the first solution includes insulin.
    335.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the first solution includes an immuno
10  suppressant.
    336.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the first solution includes a multi
    vitamin.
    337.     The solution system of claim 328, further including one or more electrolytes in the
    first solution.
15  338.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the one or more electrolytes includes
    calcium.
    339.     The solution system of claim 328, wherein the solutions are combined with a blood
    product prior to perfusing an organ.
    340.     The solution system of claim 328, further comprising a therapeutic.
20  341.     A method for perfusing a beating heart at a physiological temperature, comprising
                     providing a solution for perfusing the heart, the solution including one or
             more cardio stimulants, one or more carbohydrates, and a plurality of amino acids
             that do not include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine,
                     perfusing the solution through the heart, and
25                   maintaining the solution at a physiological temperature during perfusion.
    342.     The method of claim 341, wherein the one or more cardio stimulants includes
    epinephrine.
                                                 -127-

   343.    The method of claim 341, wherein the solution is provided in two components, the
   first component including one or more carbohydrates, and the second component including
   one or more cardio stimulants.
   344.    The method of claim 341, wherein the solution is at a pH of about 5.5 to about 6.0.
 5 345.    The method of claim 341, further including combining the solution with a blood
   product to form a perfusion fluid and perfusing the perfusion fluid through the heart.
   346.    The method of claim 341, including perfusing a therapeutic through the heart.
   347.    A kit, comprising one or more carbohydrates, one or more cardio stimulants, a
   plurality of amino acids that do not include asparagines, glutanine, or cysteine, and a
10 package.
   348.    A system for perfusing an organ, comprising:
                   an organ; and
                   a substantially cell-free composition, comprising one or more
           carbohydrates, one or more organ stimulants, and a plurality of amino acids that do
15         not include asparagine, glutamine, or cysteine.
   349.    The system of claim 348, wherein the organ is a heart.
   350.    The system of claim 349, wherein one or more organ stimulants includes one or
   more cardio stimulants.
   351.    The system of claim 350, wherein one or more cardio stimulants includes
20 epinephrine.
   352.    The system of claim 349, wherein the heart is a beating heart.
                                                -128-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
