                                                  18
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a device (10) for supporting a switching of a railway
switch which comprises a first fixed stock rail (B1) and a second fixed stock rail (B2) with a
first corresponding switchable switch rail (Z1) and a second corresponding switchable
switch rail (Z2). The device (10) comprises a first stock rail region (12) for the at least
partial support of a first rail foot (Fl) of the first stock rail (B1), a first switch rail region
(14) for the support of the first switch rail (Z1) and a first holding portion (16) with a first
clamping apparatus (18). By means of the first clamping apparatus (18), a first clamping
force can be exerted on a part of the first rail foot (Fl) positionable between the first
holding portion (16) and the first stock rail region (12). The device (10) is thus fastenable
to the first stock rail (B1) for the transfer of a weight force of the first switch rail (Z1) to
the first stock rail (B1). The device further comprises a fixing means (20, 22) which is
configured to prevent a lateral slipping of the first rail foot (Fl) out of the first stock rail
region (12), without thereby encompassing the first rail foot (Fl).
(Fig. 1)

                                   1/4
                   18                   10
                          22
       16            12         30            26 14
                                           32
 Fig. 1                12 14
                B1                                   B2
                                       10         Z2    218
          16 18     Z1
                                                            216
            F12            14              2124       212   F
Fig. 2
        16              22
                    12                                        28
                             14
  F ig. 3                                  Fig. 4

                                                  1
       DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SUPPORTING A SWITCHING OF A RAILWAY SWITCH
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates to a device and a method for supporting a switching of a
railway switch, wherein the railway switch comprises a first fixed stock rail and a second
fixed stock rail with a first corresponding switchable switch rail and a second
corresponding switchable switch rail.
PRIOR ART
Devices for supporting a switch rail of a railway switch are well known from the prior art.
For example, DE 10 2014 212074 Al discloses a rolling device which supports a switching
of a switch rail of a railway switch in that a roller frame accommodated in a slide chair
plate is used in which rollers are mounted so that the switch rail can be guided over these
rollers during switching and a resistance during switching of the switch rail can be
significantly reduced without lubrication being necessary.
The rolling device known from the prior art is constructed so that it is supported on a
slide chair plate, which also supports the stock rail and lies on the railway tie, and is
fastened thereon in order to apply the weight force of the switch rail to the ground. This
construction necessitates that the slide chair plate is adapted to the rolling device. In
order to equip a railway switch retrospectively with such a rolling device, an existing slide
chair plate must therefore be exchanged, which implies a relatively great effort and
effectively excludes a retrofitting of a railway switch with this rolling device in many
cases.
In order to be able to equip existing railway switch systems with such a rolling device, the
option fundamentally exists in the prior art to firmly clamp a so-called "clamp-on rolling
device" onto a stock rail of the railway switch. In known designs, the rail foot of the stock
rail must be form-fittingly encompassed on both sides of each stock rail in order to be
able to transfer reliably the load of the switch rail onto the stock rail. In particular,
thereby a lateral but also a vertical movement of the rolling device relative to the stock
rail must be prevented by means of the form-fitting. However, this has the consequence
that a part of the rail foot of the stock rail facing toward the switch rail is also surrounded
on all sides. Thus, a switch rail the height, i.e. vertical extent, of which is comparable with
that of the stock rail, can no longer be brought close to the stock rail. After all, shortly
before the contact between the switch rail and the stock rail, the switch rail makes

                                                  2
contact with a holding element of the rolling device forming the form-fitting, and cannot
move any further toward the stock rail.
Known clamp-on rolling devices therefore cannot be used with railway switches having
stock rails and switch rails of equal height.
Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia or any other country.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a device for supporting a switching of a railway switch
belonging to the aforementioned technical field which enables simple retrofitting of an
existing railway switch with the device and therein can also be used with railway switches
having stock rails and switch rails of equal height.
The present invention provides a device according to claim 1 and a method according to
claim 11. Advantageous embodiments of the invention are contained in the dependent
claims.
The inventive device of the above technical field comprises a first stock rail region for the
at least partial support of a first rail foot of the first stock rail, a first switch rail region for
the support of the first switch rail and a first holding portion with a first clamping
apparatus, whereby a first clamping force is exertable on a part of the first rail foot
positionable between the first holding portion and the first stock rail region and the
device is thus fastenable to the first stock rail for the transfer of a weight force of the first
switch rail to the first stock rail. The device further comprises a fixing means which is
configured to prevent a lateral slipping of the first rail foot out of the first stock rail region
without thereby encompassing the first rail foot.
In principle, therefore, the present invention relates to a support device for a switch rail
which support device is configured to be clamped on, and which transfers a weight force
of the first switch rail onto the first stock rail. Herein, no damage to or additional
machining of the rail takes place, so that the inventive device is particularly well suited to
being used in an existing railway switch system in order to improve it retrospectively.
Herein, the device is not differently supported downwardly, but only hangs on the stock
rail, so that the stock rail absorbs the major part of the weight force exerted by the first
switch rail onto the device. It is therefore not necessary to prepare a slide chair plate or a

                                                 3
similar support device for the inventive device or to exchange an existing slide chair plate,
which further facilitates retrofitting of an existing railway switch with the inventive
device.
Since the fixing means does not encompass the first rail foot, a pair of equal height
consisting of stock rail and corresponding switch rail can be equipped with the inventive
device without impairing the functional capability of the railway switch. Herein,
"encompass" should be understood to mean that a fixing means according to the prior art
not only contacts the rail foot laterally, but also forms a form-fit in the vertical direction
upwardly and downwardly. This design from the prior art serves to be able to transfer the
load exerted by the switch rail onto both sides of the rail foot of the stock rail.
According to the invention, the transfer of the weight force of the switch rail is ensured
by means of the holding portion configured according to the invention, which can exert
the clamping force in a direction and order of magnitude onto the part of the first rail
foot, that is, on only one side of the rail foot such that a further support of the device, for
example, by means of a tie or a similar support is not necessary.
By means of the holding portion, the rail foot of the stock rail can be connected to the
device such that it is surrounded on one side at least partially, preferably completely, in a
plane transverse to the extension direction of the stock rail. The direction and size of the
clamping force can herein be adapted to the expected loading of the device by a switch
rail.
The invention is based, in particular, on the recognition that an encompassing of the rail
foot is hindering if a switch rail of the same height as the stock rail is to be supported by
the device, since the encompassing part of the device partially includes the space
between the stock rail and the switch rail and hinders or even prevents direct contacting
between the switch rail and the stock rail in this configuration. With the device according
to the invention, therefore, in contrast to the prior art, a firm clamping of the rail foot of
the stock rail is striven for only on one side of the stock rail in the device between the
holding portion and the stock rail region, in order to enable an undisturbed switching of a
switch rail of equal height. Some particularly preferred possibilities for hindering a lateral
slipping by means of fixing means which do not require encompassing of the rail foot are
explicitly set out below, although the invention in its entirety also covers other solutions.

                                                 4
Advantageously, the fixing means comprises a rim on an edge of the first stock rail region
situated opposing the first clamping apparatus. This rim is configured as a lateral stop for
the first rail foot.
This rim can be used, above all, if the switch rail has a somewhat smaller height than the
stock rail. If the rim has a smaller vertical extent than the difference between the vertical
extents of the rail foot of the stock rail and a corresponding part of the switch rail, the
switch rail can be brought close, above the rim, as far as directly against the stock rail,
whilst the rim prevents lateral slipping of the rail foot out of the stock rail region.
Such a rim is particularly advantageously usable as a fixing means if the clamping force
has not only a vertical component but also a lateral component, i.e. is directed obliquely
onto the stock rail region. In this case, the clamping force presses the rail foot of the stock
rail not only onto the stock rail region, but also against the rim, so that a force-fitting
connection comes about between the device and the rail foot, which prevents a vertical
relative movement between the rail foot and the device.
By means of the rim, the device is therefore supported against the rail foot of the stock
rail abutting the stock rail region if the device is fastened to a stock rail, so that the lateral
slipping of the stock rail relative to the stock rail region is prevented.
In another preferred embodiment, the fixing means alternatively or additionally
comprises a connecting element which enables an additional attachment of the device
also to the second stock rail and a load application into the second stock rail. The
connecting element can herein preferably be made of sectional steel with a high area
moment of inertia and have a U-profile, T-profile, double T-profile or another profile. The
connecting element can herein prevent both a lateral slipping of the stock rail relative to
the stock rail region and also deflect a part of the weight force that is absorbed by the
switch rail region and is transferred to the stock rail, in the direction of the stock rail to
which the device is fastened.
Alternatively to an embodiment of the connecting element as a U-profile, T-profile,
double T-profile or another profile, as stated above, the connecting element can also be
configured as a tie rod. The tie rod exerts, for example, a tensional force between the
holding portion of the device and the stock rail which lies opposing the stock rail abutting
the first stock rail region. In the further description below, the connecting element
configured as a tie rod is considered further. In principle, it is preferred for the connecting
element configured as a tie rod that it is length-adjustable.

                                                  5
In a particularly preferred embodiment, the device further comprises a second stock rail
region for the at least partial support of a rail foot of the second stock rail, i.e. a second
rail foot, a second switch rail region for the support of the second switch rail and a second
holding portion with a second clamping apparatus, whereby a second clamping force is
exertable on a part of the second rail foot positionable between the second holding
portion and the second stock rail region and the device is thus fastenable to the second
stock rail for the transfer of a weight force of the second switch rail to the second stock
rail. Herein, the first holding portion and the second holding portion are connected to one
another by means of the connecting element so that the device is fastenable to the first
stock rail and the second stock rail by means of the holding portions encompassing the
first stock rail and the second stock rail on opposing sides.
According to this preferred embodiment, the connecting element substantially connects
to one another two devices which were described above according to the invention. The
pair of stock rails belonging to a track serves herein not only to accept the weight force of
the respective switch rails, but also stabilizes the device against a possible lateral
movement relative to the stock rail to which the device is fastened. After all, a lateral
displacement of the device in any direction perpendicular to the extension direction of
the stock rails is prevented by form-fitting. Herein, however, only the respective outer
parts of the rail feet of the pair of stock rails is surrounded, whereas the parts of the stock
rails respectively inwardly positioned, i.e. directed toward one another are kept free for a
direct contact by the switch rail. Thus, an existing railway switch can be retrofitted
particularly reliably wherein also very large loads of the switch rail can be reliably
transferred to the stock rails and the switch rails and stock rails can be of equal height.
In this embodiment as in the previously described embodiment, it is not necessary to
provide a further fixing means, for example, the rim described above, which can be
advantageous in the retrofitting of particular railway switches since the switch rails and
stock rails are exactly of equal height and matched to one another with regard to their
profile so that no space would be available for a rim situated between these rails.
Advantageously, in a first embodiment, the first holding portion can be firmly connected
to the connecting element and the second holding portion can be adjustable in the first
embodiment along the connecting element, so that the device is adaptable to different
track widths. The second holding portion can be displaceable in the first embodiment, in
particular, for example, in order to facilitate a fixing in a desired position in that, for
example, only one degree of freedom, i.e. a movement along a direction of the

                                                 6
connecting element is enabled whereas in the other directions, the position of the second
holding portion is fixed. A fixed connection in the context of the first embodiment is
considered to exist, in particular, if the first holding portion is screwed, welded or riveted
on, for example, in a particular position. In this case, the position of the first holding
portion on the connecting element would be firmly pre-set and not changeable, in
contrast to the position of the second holding portion which can be changed along the
connecting element.
Advantageously, in a second embodiment, the first holding portion, the first stock rail
region and/or the first switch rail region can be connected by means of a tie rod to the
second holding portion, the second stock rail region and/or the second switch rail region,
wherein the tie rod is a second embodiment of the connecting element. The tie rod
preferably can be in engagement with a projection, an eye, a cut-out or the like which is
firmly connected to the first holding portion, stock rail region and/or switch rail region,
firmly mounted thereon, in particular screw-fastened, welded, riveted or integrally
connected thereto, and can be in engagement with a projection, an eye, a cut-out or the
like which is firmly connected to the second holding portion, stock rail region and/or
switch rail region, firmly mounted thereon, in particular screw-fastened, welded, riveted
or integrally connected thereto. By this means, the connecting element preferably
configured as a tie rod can, in particular, apply a tensional force between the first holding
portion and the second holding portion, by means of which the holding portions are
clamped against the stock rails arranged therebetween.
The tensional force applied by means of the tie rod is generated, in particular, with the
aid of a turnbuckle by means of which the tie rod, i.e. the connecting element, is
adjustable in its length along its main extent direction and in this way, can generate a bias
between the first and second holding portions.
In the present context, an adjustment of a length of the tie rod means a change of the
spacing between the parts of the tie rod with which the tie rod comes into engagement
with the first and/or second holding portion, stock rail region and/or switch rail region.
The solution according to the second embodiment in which a tie rod is used ultimately as
a connecting element between two holding portions, can also be combined with features
of the inventive and preferred device.
In particular, a turnbuckle or another tensioning device of the tie rod can assume the
function of the clamping apparatus in that a clamping force is exertable on the

                                               7
positionable part of the first and/or second rail foot between, firstly, the first and second
holding portion and, secondly, the first and second stock rail region and the device is thus
fastenable to the first and/or second stock rail for the transfer of a weight force of the
first and/or second switch rail to the first and/or second stock rail, whilst the tie rod as
such represents an example of a fixing means, in particular, a connecting element.
In a preferred embodiment, the first stock rail region and/or the second stock rail region
is configured and dimensioned so that the first clamping force and/or the second
clamping force is absorbable by means of the first rail foot and/or the second rail foot at
least at two support regions spaced transversely to the extent direction of the first stock
rail and/or the second stock rail. Herein, the two support regions are preferably each
arranged on the outer ends of the first stock rail region and/or the second stock rail
region.
Even if the first and second stock rail region can be configured and dimensioned so that
the first or second rail foot can be brought completely, i.e. over the entire corresponding
area of the stock rail region, into contact with the device, it is sufficient and is even
preferred if a support of the rail foot on the stock rail region takes place at two spaced
sites. Together with the clamping apparatus or possibly the holding portion, the contact
points or contact areas of the clamping apparatus and the stock rail region form a triangle
on the stock rail, wherein the clamping force exerted by the clamping apparatus acts on
the two spaced support regions with the stock rail arranged therebetween so that both
the spaced support regions enable a secure fastening of the device on the rail foot of the
respective stock rail.
For the strength of the fastening of the device on the stock rail, it is particularly
advantageous if the largest possible spacing transverse to the extent direction of the
stock rail exists between the support regions, i.e. the stock rail essentially contacts the
stock rail region only at one point. The connection is particularly reliable if the clamping
apparatus acts at a site of the rail foot which lies, seen transversely to the extent direction
of the stock rail, between the first support region and the second support region.
In fact, a single continuous support region forming the two aforementioned support
regions is also possible. With such an embodiment, however, it must very particularly be
ensured that the single support region of the surface precisely follows the stock rails
which, in practice, is hardly achievable. Otherwise, the arrangement and extent of the
support region on the surface is not controllable, which has a disadvantageous effect on
the strength of the fastening of the device on the stock rail.

                                                 8
It is therefore preferred to provide two support regions spaced transversely to the extent
direction of the stock rail, whilst a sufficiently large spacing from the rail foot of the stock
rail is formed between these support regions, in order not to allow possible deviations of
the underside of the rail foot from the planar form of the stock rail region to lead to
negative effects on the fastening quality of the device on the stock rail.
Preferably, the first clamping apparatus and/or the second clamping apparatus comprises
one or more clamping means, in particular a screw or a plurality of screws, wherein the
clamping means are preferably configured self-securing, in particular have a self-locking
nut or a plurality of self-locking nuts. The clamping means, in particular, the screw can
preferably exert a force parallel to its extent on the rail foot in order to press the rail foot
onto the stock rail region. For this purpose, for example, in order to reduce an areal force,
with (e.g. due to weathering) less strong stock rails or rail feet, an underlay element can
be used, so that damage to the stock rail due to the screw or the other clamping means is
prevented. The underlay element can be, for example, a protective plate wherein
alternatively and additionally, other underlay elements are also possible.
Alternatively, however, it is possible to provide a screw or another clamping means, the
orientation and original force direction of which does not correspond to the direction of
the clamping force. In this case, the clamping force can be deflected, for example, by
means of an inclined sliding plane or similar mechanisms fundamentally known from the
prior art. This can assist, for example, in the reduction of the pressures acting on the stock
rail.
In a preferred embodiment, the clamping force exertable by the first clamping apparatus
and/or the second clamping apparatus has an inclined force direction relative to the first
stock rail region and/or the second stock rail region. In other words, the clamping force
does not extend exactly vertically, but has both a horizontal and also a vertical force
component. In this way, the stock rail can be pressed particularly efficiently onto the
stock rail region, which can lead to a particularly reliable fastening of the device on the
stock rail. This applies in particular for the case where the fixing means has a rim laterally
abutting the rail foot.
Advantageously, the clamping apparatus is herein arranged and configured so that the
clamping force acts on a site of the rail foot that is spaced transversely to the extent
direction of the rail by 20% to 35% of the extent of the rail foot from its outwardly
situated edge. In principle, it is preferred within the context of the present invention, to

                                                9
apply the clamping force as centrally as possible onto the stock rail in order to achieve an
even distribution of the force also on the support regions of the stock rail region and to
achieve an advantageous lever effect on transferring the weight force absorbed from the
switch rail onto the stock rail. Spacings of more than 20%, preferably 25% or more from
the edge of the rail foot have been found to be particularly advantageous, taking account
of the typical shape of a stock rail.
In a preferred embodiment, the device also comprises at least one functional element
which is, in particular, a roller frame, preferably with height-adjustable rollers or a slide
chair for supporting the first switch rail and/or the second switch rail and/or a sensor for
determining a position of the first switch rail and/or the second switch rail.
A roller frame facilitates the mounting of rollers on the device, by means of which the
switch rail can be switched with particularly low resistance. However, a slide chair plate
without a roller frame but, for example, with a suitable solid lubrication, can be used as a
functional element in conjunction with the preferred device.
Alternatively and additionally, a sensor for determining the switch rail position, with
which the function of the railway switch can be monitored, can also be provided. With
the device according to the invention, other functional elements can also be safely
arranged and fastened to the railway switch and, in particular, under the switch rail and
the stock rail.
In an inventive method for supporting a switching of a railway switch having a first fixed
stock rail and a second fixed stock rail with a first corresponding switchable switch rail
and a second corresponding switchable switch rail, a device as described above is
fastened to the first stock rail and/or the second stock rail by means of a clamping force.
This takes place in such a way that a weight force of the first switch rail and/or of the
second switch rail is transferred by means of the device to the first stock rail and/or the
second stock rail.
In this way, therefore, a railway switch switching support can take place without
exchanging a tie of the railway switch or reshaping an existing tie so that a support device
known from the prior art can be used. The method thus also solves the problem
addressed by the present invention as described above.
Further features, advantages and effects of the present invention are disclosed by the
following description of the drawings and the entirety of the claims.

                                                10
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of a device for supporting a switching of
a railway switch.
Fig. 2 is a side view of the first embodiment.
Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a part of a device according to the first embodiment.
Fig. 4 is a perspective view of a further part of the first embodiment of the device.
Fig. 5 is a perspective view of a further part of the first embodiment of the device.
Fig. 6 is a perspective view of the first embodiment.
Fig. 7 is a partial sectional view of a second embodiment of the device which is fastened
to a stock rail.
Fig. 8 is a perspective view of a part of the second embodiment.
Fig. 9 is a perspective sectional view of a third embodiment of a device for supporting a
switching of a railway switch.
MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
In the following description of the modes for carrying out the invention, identical and
corresponding elements are provided with the same reference signs and repeated
description is omitted.
Fig. 1 shows a perspective view of a first embodiment of a preferred device 10 for
supporting a switching of a railway switch. The device 10 comprises a first stock rail
region 12, a first switch rail region 14 and a first holding portion 16 with a first clamping
apparatus 18. The clamping apparatus 18 in the embodiment shown in Fig. 1 is a screw
which interacts with an internal thread in an opening in the holding portion 16 or with a
nut, in order to exert a first clamping force on a part of a first rail foot positionable
between the first holding portion 16 and the stock rail region 12 and thus to fasten the

                                                11
device 10 on the first stock rail for the transfer of a weight force of a first switch rail onto
the first stock rail.
The embodiment of the device illustrated in Fig. 1 shows the holding portion 16 as a C
shaped element integrally connected to the stock rail region 12 on an outer edge of the
stock rail region 12. The holding portion 16 therefore extends outwardly, starting from
the stock rail region 12, in order to surround a rail foot of the stock rail laterally and then
extends surrounding the rail foot of the stock rail along an upper side of the rail foot. In
other words, the holding portion 16 forms a recess in which a part of the rail foot of a
stock rail can be accommodated and can have the clamping force applied to it by means
of the clamping apparatus, i.e. the screw 18.
On the edge of the stock rail region 12 opposing the holding portion 16 and the clamping
apparatus 18, a rim 22 is formed on which the opposing side of the rail foot, i.e. the side
of the rail foot that is not surrounded by the holding portion 16 abuts. The screw 18
presses the rail foot, by means of its arrangement and inclined orientation, not only onto
the stock rail region 12, but also against the rim 22 so that at the rim 22 a force-fitting
connection between the rail foot and the device 10 arises which allows a part of the
weight force of the switch rail that is absorbed by means of the switch rail region 14, to
be transferred to the stock rail.
On the switch rail region 14 of the device 10, a roller frame 26 is arranged which mounts
rollers 30 of a number according to the switch opening width, in the present embodiment
five rollers 30. The rollers 30 are preferably height-adjustable relative to the roller frame
26, for example by means of an eccentric mounting. Furthermore, the roller frame 26 can
be height-adjustable, for example, by means of underlay plates or similar elements,
relative to the switch rail region 14, so that it is possible to adapt the actual support
surface of the switch rail to the switch rail region 14, i.e. the respective upper surface of
the rollers 30 within broad limits to a height difference between the stock rail and the
switch rail. Furthermore, the roller frame 26 is displaceable transversely to the extent
direction of the stock rail and the switch rail on the switch rail region 14 and is fixable, for
example, by means of a screw 32.
Fig. 1 also shows a beginning of a connecting element 20 which in the present
embodiment is configured as a U-profile. The connecting element can also have another
form. With this connecting element 20, the device 10 can also be mounted on the second
stock rail of the railway switch, said stock rail belonging to the track.

                                                 12
This can serve, firstly, to prevent lateral slipping of the rail foot of the stock rail out of the
stock rail region 12, even if the rim 22 cannot be brought into contact with the rail foot,
for example, because the rail foot has no defined contact area. In addition, the weight
force of the switch rail can also be transferred by means of the connecting element 20
both to the first stock rail and also to the second stock rail belonging to the track. At the
same time, the connecting element 20 represents a part that can be manufactured
substantially more cheaply and installed significantly more rapidly, even in existing
systems, as compared with a tie of the trackbed.
It is apparent in Fig. 2 how the embodiment of the device 10 shown in Fig. 1, which is
fastened to a first stock rail B1 in order to support a corresponding switch rail Z1, by
means of the connecting element 20, creates a connection by means of the connecting
element 20 to an opposing stock rail B2. It should be noted herein that the stock rail B2
belong to the track of the stock rail Bl is surrounded by a holding portion 216, which
corresponds to the holding portion 16 which surrounds the one rail foot F1 of the first
stock rail B1. Furthermore, the device 10 comprises, in the region of the second stock rail
B2, a second stock rail region 212, on which a second rail foot F2 comes to rest. A second
switch rail region 214 serves to support a second switch rail Z2. The second holding
portion 216 with a second clamping apparatus 218, also a screw, serves to exert a second
clamping force onto the part of the second rail foot F2 positioned between the second
holding portion 216 and the second stock rail region 212 and the device 10 is thus to be
fastened to the second stock rail B2 for the transfer of a weight force of the second
switch rail Z2 to the second stock rail B2.
By means of the connecting element 20, two holding portions 16, 216 connected to one
another are now connected to two stock rails B1, B2 by two clamping forces, which leads
to a particularly reliable and secure holding of the switch rails Z1, Z2 and significantly
facilitates the switching of the railway switch. The region of the device 10 on the second
stock rail B2, i.e. in particular the second stock rail region 212, the second switch rail
region 214 and the second holding portion 216 can be configured similarly to the first
region, in particular the first stock rail region 12, the first switch rail region 14 and the first
holding portion 16. For example, similarly, a roller frame with a corresponding
configuration or a rim corresponding to the embodiment shown in Fig. 1 can be provided.
Fig. 3 shows a part of the device of Fig. 1, from which the stock rail region 12, the switch
rail region 14, the holding portion 16 and the rim 22 are particularly clearly apparent.

                                                  13
Fig. 4 shows an underlay plate, as used in Fig. 1 in order to adjust the height of the roller
frame 26. Such a roller frame 26 is shown again as a separate part in Fig. 5.
Fig. 6 shows a perspective overview of the embodiment of the device 10, as shown in Fig.
2 in side view. Fig. 6 shows a second roller frame 226 with second rollers 230, as are
already indicated in Fig. 2. It is further evident that the device 10 is fastened in the extent
direction of the stock rails B1, B2 between two ties of the railway switch on the stock rails
B1, B2, so that it is not necessary to adapt, exchange or displace the ties.
Fig. 7 shows a device 10 according to a second embodiment which is similar to that of the
embodiment of Fig. 1. Fig. 7 shows a perspective sectional view of the device 10 including
the first stock rails B1 with the first rail foot F1 and the first switch rail Z1.
In addition to the first embodiment, the roller frame 26 is height adjustable with underlay
plates 28 relative to the switch rail region 14, as shown in Fig. 7. It is also apparent in Fig.
7 that the screw 18 with a self-locking nut 24 is secured against moving outward in order
to maintain the clamping force on the rail foot Fl.
The embodiment according to Fig. 7 shows no connecting element like the connecting
element 20 of Fig. 1. The fastening of the device 10 to the stock rail B1 takes place
exclusively by means of the clamping force of the screw 18, by means of which the rail
foot F1 of the stock rail B1 can be pressed onto the stock rail region 12 and against the
rim 22.
Otherwise, the configuration of the embodiment in Fig. 7 is similar to that of Fig. 1.
Fig. 8 shows a perspective view of the second embodiment of the device 10. Fig. 8 shows
particularly clearly a first support region 12.1, 12.3 and a second support region 12.2,
which are mutually spaced transversely to the extent direction of the stock rail and
between which a screw guided by the holding portion 16 makes contact on the rail foot of
the stock rail. Otherwise, Fig. 8 shows the elements of the preferred device already
shown in Fig. 7.
Fig. 9 is a perspective sectional view of a third embodiment of a device for supporting a
switching of a railway switch. The third embodiment is similar to the first embodiment, as
shown particularly in Figs. 1, 2 and 6 and as described above, so that repeated description
of the same or corresponding elements is omitted.

                                               14
In contrast to the first embodiment, the third embodiment has, in place of the connecting
element 20, a connecting element 21 which is configured as a tie rod 21. The tie rod 21 of
the third embodiment finally connects the first holding portion 16 and the second holding
portion 216 to one another such that the holding portions 16, 216 are biased relative to
one another by means of a tensional force applied by the tie rod 21.
A turnbuckle 23 serves to move the two halves of the tie rod 21 toward or away from one
another and thereby to apply the tensional force, since the two halves of the tie rod 21
are in operative connection to the first holding portion 16 and the second holding port
216. The tie rod 21 is operatively connected via a projection 25, in each case, in the hooks
27 at the ends of the tie rod 21 and arranged under the switch rail region 14, 214,
respectively with the holding portion 16, 216, the stock rail region 12, 212 and the switch
rail region 14, 214. Alternatively to an engagement in a projection, a part of the tie rod 21
can also be configured integrally with the respective holding portion 16, 216 or, if
relevant, fastened by means of the stock rail region 12, 212 and/or the switch rail region
14, 214 to the holding portion 16, 216, for example screw fastened, welded, riveted,
hooked or clamped on.
The features of the embodiments as described above can be combined with one another
so that, in particular, the embodiment according to Figs. 7 and 8 can also be provided
with a connecting element such as the connecting element 20 of Figs. 1, 2, and 6 or the
connecting element 21 of Fig. 9. Alternatively, the embodiment of Figs. 1, 2 and 6 can also
be configured without a connecting element 20 and configured similarly to the second
embodiment.
With the preferred embodiments described above, a device belonging to the
aforementioned technical field is provided in each case, by means of which it is possible
to equip an existing railway switch retrospectively with a support device without great
effort, even if the stock rail and the switch rail are of equal height.
The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or 'comprising' are used
herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude
any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive
interpretation of the term is required.

                                                  15
CLAIMS
1.       A device for supporting a switching of a railway switch, wherein the railway switch
comprises a first fixed stock rail and a second fixed stock rail with a first corresponding
switchable switch rail and a second corresponding switchable switch rail,
         wherein the device comprises:
         a first stock rail region for the at least partial support of a first rail foot of the first
stock rail,
         a first switch rail region for the support of the first switch rail and
         a first holding portion with a first clamping apparatus, whereby a first clamping
force is exertable on a part of the first rail foot positionable between the first holding
portion and the first stock rail region and the device is thus fastenable to the first stock
rail for the transfer of a weight force of the first switch rail to the first stock rail,
         wherein the device further comprises a fixing means which is configured to
prevent a lateral slipping of the first rail foot out of the first stock rail region, without
thereby encompassing the first rail foot.
2.       The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fixing means comprises a rim on an
edge of the first stock rail region situated opposing the first clamping apparatus, said rim
being configured as a lateral stop for the first rail foot.
3.       The device as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the fixing means comprises a
connecting element which enables an additional attachment of the device also to the
second stock rail and a load application to the second stock rail.
4.       The device as claimed in claim 3, further comprising
         a second stock rail region for the at least partial support of a second rail foot of
the second stock rail,
         a second switch rail region for the support of the second switch rail and
         a second holding portion with a second clamping apparatus, whereby a second
clamping force is exertable onto a part of the second rail foot positionable between the
second holding portion and the second stock rail region and the device is thus fastenable
to the second stock rail for the transfer of a weight force of the second switch rail to the
second stock rail,
         wherein the first holding portion and the second holding portion are connected to
one another by means of the connecting element so that the device is fastenable to the
first stock rail and the second stock rail by means of holding portions encompassing the
first stock rail and the second stock rail on opposing sides.

                                                16
5.      The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first holding portion is firmly
connected to the connecting element and the second holding portion is adjustable along
the connecting element, so that the device is adaptable to different track widths.
6.      The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the connecting element is operatively
connected to the first holding portion and the second holding portion such that by means
of the connecting element a bias is applicable in the form of a tensional force between
the first holding portion and the second holding portion,
        wherein the connecting element is preferably a length-adjustable tie rod,
        wherein preferably, a turnbuckle is configured to apply the tensional force via the
tie rod between the first holding portion and the second holding portion.
7.      The device as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the first stock rail
region and/or the second stock rail region is configured and dimensioned so that the first
clamping force and/or the second clamping force is absorbable by means of the first rail
foot and/or the second rail foot at least at two support regions spaced transversely to the
extent direction of the first stock rail and/or the second stock rail,
        wherein the two support regions are preferably each arranged on the outer ends
of the first stock rail region and/or the second stock rail region.
8.      The device as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the first clamping
apparatus and/or the second clamping apparatus comprises one or more clamping
means, in particular, screws,
        wherein the clamping means are preferably configured self-securing, in particular
have a self-locking nut,
        wherein preferably an underlay element is arranged on the clamping means so
that damage to the first stock rail or the second stock rail is prevented.
9.      The device as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the clamping force
exertable by the first clamping apparatus and/or the second clamping apparatus has an
inclined force direction relative to the first stock rail region and/or the second stock rail
region.
10.     The device as claimed in one of the preceding claims, further comprising at least
one functional element which is, in particular, a roller frame, preferably with height
adjustable rollers or a slide chair for supporting the first switch rail and/or the second

                                                17
switch rail and/or a sensor for determining a position of the first switch rail and/or the
second switch rail.
11.     A method for supporting a switching of a railway switch having a first fixed stock
rail and a second fixed stock rail with a first corresponding switchable switch rail and a
second corresponding switchable switch rail,
        wherein a device as claimed in one of the preceding claims is fastened to the first
stock rail and/or the second stock rail by means of a clamping force in order to transfer a
weight force of the first switch rail and/or the second switch rail by means of the device
to the first stock rail and/or the second stock rail.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
