                                               -62
         ABSTRACT
         The subject relates to an isolated antibody that specifically binds to 025b antigen
  of multi drug resistant (MDR) E. coli strains, its medical and diagnostic use, method of
5 producing the antibody, including an isolated nucleotide sequence, plasmids and host
  cells as used in the production of the antibody; and further an isolated epitope
  recognized the specific antibody.

                                    6/7
Fig. 6
        100-=p=0.0006
80
                               p=0.001
60-                                         --  8D5-1G1O
                                            40- 8D10-C8
     12-m                                       PBS
20
 0
   0      3     6     9   12    15    18 21
               Days post challenge

                                                   -1
                                   MDR E. COLI SPECIFIC ANTIBODY
            FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  5        The invention refers to an antibody specifically binding to the LPS 025b antigen
    of multi drug resistant (MDR) E. coli strains.
            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
  0         Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is the most abundant antigen on the surface of
    enterobacterial pathogens. Typically, LPS has three structural parts: i) Lipid A (also
    known as endotoxin), ii) core oligosaccharide, and iii) O-antigen. The latter is made up
    of repeating subunits of 3-6 sugars (depending on the serotype). Lipid A and core OS
    are relatively well conserved in one single enterobacterial species, however, their
  5 accessibility to antibodies are limited. On the other hand, O-antigens are highly
    accessible, but very diverse with respect to their structure (in E. coli there are -180
    different O-types).
           Antibodies against O-antigens are able to bind to the surface of E. coli, hence
    they are used both for diagnostics (e.g. O-typing for epidemiology studies) as well as
 !0 are proposed as therapeutic measures. Nevertheless, given the huge structural
    variability, a broad spectrum         protection with   O-antigen  specific antibodies is
    cumbersome.
            Extraintestinal infections caused by E. coli are common causing significant
    morbidity and mortality. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) strains of E. coli that have emerged
25  recently cause a significant proportion of E. coli infections.
           Treatment options against these MDR strains are getting very limited as they have
    evolved resistance to most classes of clinically relevant antibiotics. Therefore, an
    alternative treatment option, e.g. passive immunization with monoclonal antibodies
    (mAbs) holds a great promise for the future.
30          In the past years a well-defined clonal lineage of MDR E. coli. the ST131-025b:H4
    has emerged causing approximately 10% of all extraintestinal E. coli infections and
    about half of the MDR E. coli infections (Peirano et al. Int J Antimicrob Agents 2010
    Apr;35(4):316-21; Rogers et al. J Antimicrob Chemother 2011 Jan;66(1):1-14; Woodford
    et al. FEMS Microbiol Rev 2011 Sep;35(5):736-55.). Strains belonging to this lineage

                                                  -2
    show limited heterogeneity thus could be considered very similar with respect to
    antigenic repertoire. The vast majority of the strains belonging to this cluster express the
    025b antigen and hence a specific gene (within the LPS synthesis locus) encoding for
    enzymes synthesizing this antigen is used for the identification of this clone (Clermont
  5 et al. J Antimicrob Chemother 2008 May; 61(5):1024-8.). Alternatively, agglutination with
    the 025 typing sera can be used, in spite that the 0 antigen of this lineage differ from
    the classical 025 antigen (hence it had been termed 025b) as suggested by genetic
    differences. However, the 025 typing sera cannot distinguish between the non-MDR
    025 and the MDR 025b clones.
  0          Rogers et al. (J Antimicrob Chemother 2011 Jan;66(1):1-14) describe the
    detection of the E. coli 025b-ST131 strain by three major characteristics, i.e. its
    serogroup (025b), its phylogenetic group (B2) and its ST (ST131). Each of these
    characteristics is disclosed to aid detection. A variety of molecular techniques is
    described, i.e. MLST, PCR-based rapid detection methods, repetitive sequence PCR
  5 and PFGE. Polyclonal antisera (raised against an 025a strain) including a variety of
    immunoglobulins have been used to determine the 025 antigen, not differentiating
    subtypes.
            Jadhav et al.      (PLOS   ONE 2011;6(3):       e18063) describe the virulence
    characteristics and genetic affinities of strains which were positive for the 025b
 !0 subgroup that is linked to the B2-025b-ST131-CTX-M-15 virulent/ multiresistant type.
    Human clinical isolates were analyzed and classified into serotypes and virulence
    marker profiles were obtained. 025 positive strains were identified by serotyping using
    polyclonal antisera against O-antigens - 01 to 0173. The 025 positive strains were
    further subjected to genotyping by an allele-specific PCR targeting the rfbO25b
25  subgroup gene locus.
             Mora et al. (Int. J. Antimicrobial Agents 2011;37(1): 16-21) describe the
    emergence of some clonal groups among CTX-M-14 producing E. coli clinical isolates,
    among them 025b: H4-B2-ST131. 0 typing was done with specific 0 antisera
    (polyclonal).
30          Clermont et al. (J Antimicrob Chemother 2008 May; 61(5):1024-8) discloses an
    allele-specific pabB PCR assay specific for 025b ST1 31 E. coli.
            Szijarto et al, (FEMS Microbiol Lett 2012;332:131-6) describe molecular typing of
    E. coli strain isolates based on the core structure of the LPS molecule. The core type of

                                                  -3
    the isolates was determined by PCR using primers targeting genes in the core operon
    and specific to R1-4 and K-12 core types, respectively.
            For clarity, any prior art referred to herein, does not constitute an admission
    that the prior art forms part of the common general knowledge, in Australia or
 5  elsewhere.
            It is an object of the invention to provide an immunogen comprising the
    025b antigen that ameliorates one or more problems of the prior art.
            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 0          Accordingly, the invention provides an immunogen comprising the 025b antigen
    characterized by the 025b repeating unit structure
                             @-Glcp
                                 1
                                 6
     c-Rh ap-( 1-)3)-a-G Icp-(1 -- 3)-a-Rhap2OAc-(1 -- 3)-p-G cpNAc
            and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
 15         Preferably, the immunogen comprises buffer and/or adjuvant substances. The
    immunogen may be for use in eliciting a protective immune response. Preferably, a
    parenteral formulation of the immunogen is administered by subcutaneous or
    intramuscular administration.
20          Accordingly, the invention also provides a vaccine comprising the immunogen
    comprising the 025b antigen characterized by the 025b repeating unit structure
                             @-Glcp
                                 1
                                 6
     c-Rhap-(1 -)3)-a-G Icp-(1 -- 3)-a-Rhap2OAc-(1 -- 3)-p-G cpNAc
            and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for use in the treatment of an MDR E.
    coli infection in a subject.

                                                     -4
             Preferably, the vaccine is for the prevention of a disease condition resulting from
    said infection. Preferably, the treatment is combined with a treatment with at least one
    additional therapeutic or prophylactic agent. Preferably, the agent is selected from the
  5 group consisting of antibiotics, steroid inhibitors of inflammation, non-steroid inhibitors
    of inflammation, and mixtures thereof. Preferably, which treatment is combined with an
    antibody based therapy.
            The present invention also provides for an antibody directed against MDR strains
    of E. coli with improved specificity to be used for the prevention or therapy of E. coli
  0 infections caused by LPS 025b carrying strains. It is further the objective to provide
    means and methods that are capable of diagnosing MDR E. coli bacteria in a rapid and
    reliable manner.
            Accordingly, the invention provides in a variant, an isolated antibody that
    specifically binds to 025b antigen of multi drug resistant (MDR) E. coli strains.
  5         Specifically, the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
            Specifically, the antibody is specific to bind 025b antigen only, or cross-specific
    to bind an epitope shared by the 025a and 025b antigens.
            According to one aspect, the antibody is cross-specific to bind the 025b and 025
    or 025a antigens, e.g. with equal, more than equal, similar or different affinities.
 !0         Specifically, the antibody of the invention preferentially binds to the 025b antigen
    relative to the 025a antigen of E. coli, or at least with equal affinity towards both
    antigens.
            According to a specific embodiment, the antibody has at least two-fold greater
    affinity for binding the 025b antigen as compared to the 025a antigen, specifically with
25  at least two-fold difference, or at least three-fold, at least four-fold, at least 5-fold, or even
    at least 10-fold difference in binding either the 025b or the 025a antigen, e.g. difference
    in affinity and/or avidity.
            According to a specific aspect the specific binding to 025b is characterized by the
    greater affinity for binding the 025b antigen as compared to binding the 025b antigen
30  by a polyclonal serum raised against 025 or 025a E. coli strains as determined by
    immunoassay, preferably immunoblotting, ELISA or other immunological methods. The
    higher binding affinity is specifically with at least two-fold difference, or at least three
    fold, at least four-fold, at least 5-fold, or even at least 10-fold difference.

                                                   -5
           Specifically, the 025b antigen as targeted by the antibody of the invention is
    prevalent in one or more, and more specifically present in the vast majority of ST131
    strains.
           Specifically, the epitope recognized by the antibody is present on the surface of
  5 encapsulated and non-encapsulated ST131-025b:H4 strains, e.g. mutant strains.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody has a binding site of a full
    length monoclonal antibody or an antibody fragment thereof comprising at least one
    antibody domain incorporating a binding site, which antibody is preferably an antibody
    selected from the group consisting of murine, lama, rabbit, goat, cow, chimeric,
  O humanized or human antibodies, heavy-chain antibodies, Fab, Fd, scFv and single
    domain antibodies like VH, VHH or VL, preferably a human IgG antibody or a murine
    IgG antibody.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody has an affinity to bind the
    025b antigen with a Kd of less than 10-7M, preferably less than 10-8M, specifically in a
  5 monomeric state.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody exhibits in vitro bactericidal
    potency in a serum sample comprising live wild-type MDR E. coli strains.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody stimulates uptake of live wild
    type MDR E. coli strains by phagocytic cells in vitro.
 !0        According to a further specific aspect, the antibody binds the same epitope as the
    antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody comprises the same binding
    site as the antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8.
           According to a specific aspect, the invention provides for an isolated monoclonal
25  antibody that specifically binds to 025b antigen of multi drug resistant (MDR) E. coli
    strains which comprises the antigen-binding site of antibody 8D5-1G10, or which is
    derived from the antibody 8D5-1 G1 0, or a functionally active variant of the antibody 8D5
    1G10, preferably wherein the antibody 8D5-1G10 is characterized by
        a) the variable region of the antibody light chain produced by the host cell deposited
30          under DSM 26763; and/or
        b) the variable region of the antibody heavy chain produced by the host cell
            deposited under DSM 26762;
        c) or a functionally active variant of (a) and/or (b) is employed.

                                                   -6
           According to a specific embodiment, the antibody is the 8D5-1 G1 0 antibody, or a
    functionally active variant thereof.
           Further antibodies of the invention are exemplified herein, which are designated
    6D1-1 B2 and 8A1 -1G8. These are clones with CDR sequences similar to the 8D5-1 G10,
  5 herein also understood as functionally active CDR variants.
           Specifically, the antibody designated as 8D5-1G1O is composed of an antibody
    light chain comprising the variable region encoded by the coding sequence of the
    plasmid comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 26763, and an antibody
    heavy chain comprising the variable region encoded by the coding sequence of the
  0 plasmid comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 26762.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody is derived from the 8D5-1G10
    antibody, wherein
           - the variable region of the antibody light chain is encoded by a plasmid comprised
    in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 26763, or a functionally active variant
  5 thereof; and/or
           - the variable region of the antibody heavy chain is encoded by a plasmid
    comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 26762, or a functionally active
    variant thereof.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody is derived from an antibody,
 !0 wherein
           - the variable region of the antibody light chain is produced by a host cell
    deposited under DSM 26763, or a functionally active variant thereof; and/or
           - the variable region of the antibody heavy chain is produced by a host cell
    deposited under DSM 26762, or a functionally active variant thereof.
25         According to another specific aspect, the invention provides for an isolated
    monoclonal antibody which is cross-specific to bind an epitope shared by the 025a and
    025b antigens, and which comprises the antigen-binding site of antibody 8D10-C8, or
    which is derived from the antibody 8D10-C8, or a functionally active variant of the
    antibody 8D10-C8, preferably wherein the antibody 8D10-C8 is characterized by
30      a) the variable region of the antibody light chain produced by the host cell deposited
           under DSM 28171; and/or
        b) the variable region of the antibody heavy chain produced by the host cell
           deposited under DSM 28172;
        c) or a functionally active variant of (a) and/or (b) is employed.

                                                   -7
           According to a specific embodiment, the antibody is the 8D10-C8 antibody, or a
    functionally active variant thereof.
           Specifically, the antibody designated as 8D10-C8 is composed of an antibody
    light chain comprising the variable region encoded by the coding sequence of the
  5 plasmid comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 28171, and an antibody
    heavy chain comprising the variable region encoded by the coding sequence of the
    plasmid comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 28172.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody is derived from the 8D10-C8
    antibody, wherein
  0        - the variable region of the antibody light chain is encoded by a plasmid comprised
    in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 28171, or a functionally active variant
    thereof; and/or
           - the variable region of the antibody heavy chain is encoded by a plasmid
    comprised in the E. coli host cell deposited under DSM 28172, or a functionally active
  5 variant thereof.
           According to a further specific aspect, the antibody is derived from an antibody,
    wherein
           - the variable region of the antibody light chain is produced by a host cell
    deposited under DSM 28171, or a functionally active variant thereof; and/or
 !0        - the variable region of the antibody heavy chain is produced by a host cell
    deposited under DSM 28172, or a functionally active variant thereof.
           Specifically, the functionally active variant is a CDR variant, e.g. which comprises
    a CDR, more specifically a CDR loop sequence, with an amino acid sequence having at
    least 60% sequence identity, preferably at least 70%, 80% or 90% sequence identity.
25         Specifically, the antibody is derived from such antibodies, employing the
    respective CDR sequences, or CDR mutants, including functionally active CDR variants,
    e.g. with 1, 2 or 3 point mutations within one CDR loop.
           Specifically, the functionally active variant differs from the parent antibody in at
    least one point mutation in the amino acid sequence, preferably in the CDR, wherein the
30  number of point mutations in each of the CDR amino acid sequences is either 0, 1, 2 or
    3.
           According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a plasmid
    comprising a nucleotide sequence
           A

                                                   -8
            - encoding the variable region of the antibody light chain designated 8D5-1G10
    LC comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 26763; and/or
            - encoding the variable region of the antibody heavy chain designated 8D5-1G10
    HC comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 26762;
  5         or B
            - encoding the variable region of the antibody light chain designated 8D10-C8-LC
    comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 28171; and/or
            - encoding the variable region of the antibody heavy chain designated 8D10-C8
    HC comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 28172.
  0         According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for an expression
    cassette comprising a coding sequence to express a light chain and/or heavy chain of
    an antibody of the invention, which expression cassette or coding sequence is derived
    from a plasmid selected from the group consisting of a plasmid of the invention.
            According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
  5 producing an antibody of the invention, wherein a host cell is transformed with a plasmid
    of the invention or the expression cassette of the invention.
            According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a host cell
    comprising a plasmid of the invention or the expression cassette of the invention.
            Specifically, the host cell is deposited under
 !0         A
            DSM 26763 and/or DSM 26762;
            or B
            DSM 28171 and/or DSM 28172.
            A specific embodiment refers to a method of producing an antibody of the
25  invention, wherein a host cell of the invention is cultivated or maintained under conditions
    to produce said antibody.
            According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
    identifying a candidate antibody comprising:
            (a) providing a sample containing an antibody or antibody-producing cell; and
30          (b) assessing for binding of an antibody in or produced by the sample with an
    epitope recognized by the antibody designated as 8D5-1G1O or 8D10-C8, wherein a
    positive reaction between the antibody and the epitope identifies the antibody as
    candidate antibody.

                                                    -9
            According to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
    identifying a candidate antibody comprising:
            (a) providing a sample containing an antibody or antibody-producing cell; and
            (b) assessing for binding of an antibody in or produced by the sample with 025b
  5 antigen of an ST131-025b:H4 strain and 025 antigen of a non-MDR E. coi strain, or the
    025a antigen, wherein a specific positive reaction between the antibody and the 025b
    antigen relative to the 025 antigen or 025a antigen identifies the antibody as candidate
    antibody.
            Specifically, the candidate antibody is a candidate protective antibody, such as
  0 for therapeutic use, or a candidate diagnostic antibody.
            Yet, according to a further specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
    producing an antibody of the invention, comprising
            (a) providing a candidate antibody identified according to the invention; and
            (b) producing a monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
  5 candidate antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as
    the candidate antibody.
            According to another specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
    producing an antibody of the invention, comprising
            (a) immunizing a non-human animal with an epitope recognized by the antibody
 !0 designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D1O-C8;
            (b) forming immortalized cell lines from the isolated B-cells;
            (c) screening the cell lines obtained in b) to identify a cell line producing a
    monoclonal antibody that binds to the epitope; and
            (d) producing the monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
25  antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as the
    monoclonal antibody.
            According to another specific aspect, the invention provides for a method of
    producing an antibody of the invention, comprising
            (a) immunizing a non-human animal with 025b antigen of a ST131-025b:H4
30  strain and isolating B-cells producing antibodies;
            (b) forming immortalized cell lines from the isolated B-cells;
            (c) screening the cell lines to identify a cell line producing a monoclonal antibody
    that preferentially binds to the 025b antigen relative to the 025 antigen or 025a antigen
    of E. coli; and

                                                  -10
            (d) producing the monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
    antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as the
    monoclonal antibody.
            According to a further aspect, the invention provides for the medical use of an
  5 antibody of the invention. Specifically, the antibody is provided for use in treating a
    subject at risk of or suffering from a MDR E. coli infection comprising administering to
    the subject an effective amount of the antibody to limit the infection in the subject or to
    ameliorate a disease condition resulting from said infection, preferably for treatment or
    prophylaxis of pyelonephritis, secondary bacteremia, sepsis, peritonitis, meningitis, and
 10 ventilator-associated pneumonia.
            Specifically, the antibody is provided for bactericidal killing of MDR E. coli,
    preferably a ST131-025b:H4 strain irrespective of capsular polysaccharide expressed
    by the strain.
            According to a specific aspect, there is further provided a method of treatment
  5 wherein a subject at risk of or suffering from a MDR E. coli infection is treated, which
    method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of the antibody to
    limit the infection in the subject or to ameliorate a disease condition resulting from said
    infection, preferably a method for treatment or prophylaxis of pyelonephritis, secondary
    bacteremia, sepsis, peritonitis, meningitis, and ventilator-associated pneumonia.
 !0         Specifically, the method of treatment is provided for bactericidal killing of MDR E.
    coli, preferably a ST131-025b:H4 strain irrespective of capsular polysaccharide
    expressed by the strain.
            According to a specific aspect, immunotherapy using the antibody of the invention
    may effectively protect against live bacterial challenge, e.g. as determined in various
25  animal models.
            The antibody may specifically neutralize lethal endotoxaemia. Such functional
    activity may be determined in an appropriate in vivo model (challenge with purified LPS).
            The antibody is specifically effective against MDR E. coli by complement
    mediated killing, e.g. as determined by an in vitro serum bactericidal assay (SBA), e.g.
30  with at least 20% killing of bacteria above the control samples (no antibody or irrelevant
    control mAb added).
            The antibody is specifically effective against MDR E. coli by antibody mediated
    phagocytosis, e.g. as determined by an in vitro opsonophagocytotic killing assay (OPK),

                                                  -11
    e.g. with at least 20% uptake of input bacteria or 20% lower end cfu count above the
    control samples (no antibody or irrelevant control mAb added).
           The antibody is specifically effective against MDR E. coli by neutralizing endotoxin
    functions, e.g. as determined by an in vitro LAL assay, or toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)
  5 reporter assay e.g. with at least 20% reduction in endotoxin activitiesin comparison to
    control samples (no antibody or irrelevant control mAb added).
           According to a specific embodiment, the antibody is administered in a parenteral
    or mucosal formulation.
           According to a further aspect, the invention provides for a pharmaceutical
  0 preparation of an antibody of the invention, preferably comprising a parenteral or
    mucosal formulation, optionally containing a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
    excipient.
           According to a further aspect, the invention provides for an antibody of the
    invention, for diagnostic use to detect or determine E. coli infection in a subject caused
  5 by MDR strains expressing the LPS 025b antigen, such as with upper and lower urinary
    tract   infections,    including  cystitis or  urethritis, ascending   or   hematogenous
    pyelonephritis, especially in diabetic patients, as well as with bacteremia, sepsis,
    peritonitis, or intestinal colonization.
           Specifically, the antibody is provided for use according to the invention, wherein
 !0 a systemic infection with MDR E. coli in a subject is determined ex vivo by contacting a
    sample of body fluid of said subject with the antibody, wherein a specific immune
    reaction of the antibody determines the infection.
           Specifically, a sample of body fluid is tested for the specific immune reaction,
    which sample is selected from the group consisting of urine, blood, blood isolates or
25  blood culture, aspirate, sputum, lavage fluid of intubated subjects and stool.
           Specifically, the diagnostic use according to the invention refers to determining
    the serotype of E. coli in vitro from a pure E. coli culture recovered from a clinical
    specimen.
           According to a further aspect, the invention provides for a diagnostic preparation
30  of an antibody of the invention, optionally containing the antibody with a label and/or a
    further diagnostic reagent with a label, such as a reagent specifically recognizing the
    antibody or an immune complex of the antibody with the respective target antigen, and/or
    a solid phase to immobilize at least one of the antibody and the diagnostic reagent. The

                                                   -12
    diagnostic preparation may be provided as a composition or as a kit of parts, e.g.
    comprising components, such as components comprising
            a) the diagnostic antibody preparation, and/or
            b) the further diagnostic reagent,
  5         and/or a solid phase to immobilize at least one of the antibody and the diagnostic
    reagent, either as a separate component or as a carrier of any of components a) and/or
    b) above.
            Preferred diagnostic assays of the invention comprise the antibody of the
    invention immobilized on a solid phase, e.g. latex beads, gold particles, etc., e.g. to test
  0 agglutination by the antibody of bacteria expressing 025b antigen or free (or isolated)
    025b antigen obtained from a sample to be tested.
            Some diagnostic assays may involve two different antibodies with different
    specificity and/or affinity to bind 025b and/or 025a, so to possibly differentiate between
    the 025b and 025a antigens.
  5         According to a specific aspect, the invention provides for companion diagnostics
    to determine the infection of a subject with MDR E. coli by the diagnostics of the invention
    or the diagnostic method of the invention, to provide for the basis of treatment with a
    therapeutic against such infection, e.g. employing immunotherapy, such as treating with
    an antibody of the invention.
 !0         According to a specific aspect, the invention provides for a sensitive bedside
    diagnostics to diagnose infection of a subject with MDR E. coli by determining free LPS,
    e.g. from clinical specimen where the amount of live bacteria is limited. The sensitivity
    of such assay is specifically less than 100 ng preferably less than 10 ng of LPS.
            According to a further aspect, the invention provides for an isolated epitope
25  recognized by the antibody designated 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8. Such epitope may
    consist of a single epitope or a mixture of epitopes comprising epitope variants, each
    recognized by the specific antibody designated 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8. Specifically, the
    epitope of the 8D10-C8 antibody is a shared one and prevalent on both the 025b and
    025a antigens, thus, the antibody is considered as being cross-specific, yet
30  preferentially binding the 025b antigen at least with equal as binding the 025a antigen.
            According to a further aspect, the invention provides for an immunogen
    comprising:
            (a) an epitope of the invention;
            (b) optionally further epitopes not natively associated with said epitope of (a); and

                                                   -13
            (c) a carrier.
           Specifically, the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, preferably
    comprising buffer and/or adjuvant substances.
           The immunogen of the invention is preferably provided in a vaccine formulation,
  5 preferably for parenteral use.
           Specifically the immunogen of the invention is provided for medical use,
    specifically for use in treating a subject by administering an effective amount of said
    immunogen to protect the subject from an MDR E. coli infection, or to prevent a disease
    condition resulting from said infection.
  0        Specifically the immunogen of the invention is provided for eliciting a protective
    immune response.
           According to a specific aspect, there is further provided a method of treatment
    wherein a subject at risk of an MDR E. coli infection is treated, which method comprises
    administering to the subject an effective amount of the immunogen to prevent infection
  5 in the subject, in particular to protect against pathogenic MDR E. coli.
           According to a further aspect, the invention provides for an isolated nucleic acid
    encoding an antibody of the invention, or encoding an epitope of the invention.
            FIGURES
 !0
            Figure 1: Surface staining of different ST131:025b strains expressing 025b,
    025a, or 02 antigens by 025b-specific (with or without cross-reactivity to 025a antigen)
    mAbs.
            Figure 2: reactivity of different mAbs and 025 rabbit serum to purified 025a and
25  025b LPS molecules in an immunoblot assay.
            Figure 3: (a): Structure of the repeating unit of E. coli 025b antigen. (b): structure
    of the repeating unit of E. coli 025a (also referred to 025, sometimes referred to as
    025(a)) for comparison (Kenne et al, 1985).
            Figure 4: Detection of 025b antigen expressing E. coli strains with agglutination
30  assay using mAb 8D5-1G10 coupled to latex beads.
            Figure 5: Detection of soluble 025b antigen with agglutination assay using mAb
    8D5-1G10 coupled to latex beads.

                                                 -14
            Figure 6: Protection provided by passive immunization of mice with 025b-specific
    murine mAbs against a subsequent intravenous lethal challenge by an ST131:025b
    clinical isolate.
            Figure 7: Complement dependent bacterial killing mediated by the 025b specific
  5 mAbs.
            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            The term "antibody" as used herein shall refer to polypeptides or proteins that
 10 consist of or comprise antibody domains, which are understood as constant and/or
    variable domains of the heavy and/or light chains of immunoglobulins, with or without a
    linker sequence. Polypeptides are understood as antibody domains, if comprising a
    beta-barrel structure consisting of at least two beta-strands of an antibody domain
    structure connected by a loop sequence. Antibody domains may be of native structure
  5 or modified by mutagenesis or derivatization, e.g. to modify the antigen binding
    properties or any other property, such as stability or functional properties, such as
    binding to the Fc receptors FcRn and/or Fcgamma receptor.
            The antibody as used herein has a specific binding site to bind one or more
    antigens or one or more epitopes of such antigens, specifically comprising a CDR
 !0 binding site of a single variable antibody domain, such as VH, VL or VHH, or a binding
    site of pairs of variable antibody domains, such as a VL/VH pair, an antibody comprising
    a VL/VH domain pair and constant antibody domains, such as Fab, F(ab'), (Fab)2, scFv,
    Fv, or a full length antibody.
            The term "antibody" as used herein shall particularly refer to antibody formats
25  comprising or consisting of single variable antibody domain, such as VH, VL or VHH, or
    combinations of variable and/or constant antibody domains with or without a linking
    sequence or hinge region, including pairs of variable antibody domains, such as a VL/VH
    pair, an antibody comprising or consisting of a VL/VH domain pair and constant antibody
    domains, such as heavy-chain antibodies, Fab, F(ab'), (Fab)2, scFv, Fd, Fv, or a full
30  length antibody, e.g. of an IgG type (e.g., an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, or IgG4 subtype), IgAl,
    IgA2, IgD, IgE, or IgM antibody. The term "full length antibody" can be used to refer to
    any antibody molecule comprising at least most of the Fc domain and other domains
    commonly found in a naturally occurring antibody monomer. This phrase is used herein
    to emphasize that a particular antibody molecule is not an antibody fragment.

                                                  -15
            The term "antibody" shall specifically include antibodies in the isolated form, e.g.
    that are substantially free of other antibodies directed against different target antigens
    or comprising a different structural arrangement of antibody domains. Still, an isolated
    antibody may be comprised in a combination preparation, containing a combination of
  5 the isolated antibody, e.g. with at least one other antibody, such as monoclonal
    antibodies or antibody fragments having different specificities.
            The term "antibody" shall apply to antibodies of animal origin, including human
    species, such as mammalian, including human, murine, rabbit, goat, lama, cow and
    horse, or avian, such as hen.
  0         The term "antibody" further applies to chimeric antibodies with sequences of origin
    of different species, such as sequences of murine and human origin.
            The term "chimeric" as used with respect to an antibody refers to those antibodies
    wherein one portion of each of the amino acid sequences of heavy and light chains is
    homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species
  5 or belonging to a particular class, while the remaining segment of the chain is
    homologous to corresponding sequences in another species or class. Typically the
    variable region of both light and heavy chains mimics the variable regions of antibodies
    derived from one species of mammals, while the constant portions are homologous to
    sequences of antibodies derived from another. For example, the variable region can be
 !0 derived from presently known sources using readily available B-cells or hybridomas from
    non-human host organisms in combination with constant regions derived from, for
    example, human cell preparations.
            The term "antibody" further applies to humanized antibodies.
            The term "humanized" as used with respect to an antibody refers to a molecule
25  having an antigen binding site that is substantially derived from an immunoglobulin from
    a non-human species, wherein the remaining immunoglobulin structure of the molecule
    is based upon the structure and/or sequence of a human immunoglobulin. The antigen
    binding site may either comprise complete variable domains fused onto constant
    domains or only the complementarity determining regions (CDR) grafted onto
30  appropriate framework regions in the variable domains. Antigen-binding sites may be
    wild-type or modified, e.g. by one or more amino acid substitutions, preferably modified
    to resemble human immunoglobulins more closely. Some forms of humanized
    antibodies preserve all CDR sequences (for example a humanized mouse antibody

                                                   -16
    which contains all six CDRs from the mouse antibody). Other forms have one or more
    CDRs which are altered with respect to the original antibody.
            The term "antibody" further applies to human antibodies.
            The term "human" as used with respect to an antibody, is understood to include
  5 antibodies having variable and constant regions derived from human germline
    immunoglobulin sequences. The human antibody of the invention may include amino
    acid residues not encoded by human germline immunoglobulin sequences (e.g.,
    mutations introduced by random or site-specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic
    mutation in vivo), for example in the CDRs. Human antibodies include antibodies
  0 isolated from human immunoglobulin libraries or from animals transgenic for one or more
    human immunoglobulin.
            The term specifically applies to antibodies of any class or subclass. Depending
    on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains, antibodies
    can be assigned to the major classes of antibodies IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and
  5 several of these may be further divided into subclasses (isotypes), e.g., IgG1, IgG2,
    IgG3, IgG4, IgA, and IgA2.
            The term further applies to monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies, specifically a
    recombinant antibody, which term includes all antibodies and antibody structures that
    are prepared, expressed, created or isolated by recombinant means, such as antibodies
 !0 originating from animals, e.g. mammalians including human, that comprises genes or
    sequences from different origin, e.g. chimeric, humanized antibodies, or hybridoma
    derived antibodies. Further examples refer to antibodies isolated from a host cell
    transformed to express the antibody, or antibodies isolated from a recombinant,
    combinatorial library of antibodies or antibody domains, or antibodies prepared,
25  expressed, created or isolated by any other means that involve splicing of antibody gene
    sequences to other DNA sequences.
            It is understood that the term "antibody" also refers to derivatives of an antibody,
    in particular functionally active derivatives. An antibody derivative is understood as any
    combination of one or more antibody domains or antibodies and/ or a fusion protein, in
30  which any domain of the antibody may be fused at any position of one or more other
    proteins, such as other antibodies, e.g. a binding structure comprising CDR loops, a
    receptor polypeptide, but also ligands, scaffold proteins, enzymes, toxins and the like. A
    derivative of the antibody may be obtained by association or binding to other substances
    by various chemical techniques such as covalent coupling, electrostatic interaction, di-

                                                   -17
    sulphide bonding etc. The other substances bound to the antibody may be lipids,
    carbohydrates, nucleic acids, organic and inorganic molecules or any combination
    thereof (e.g. PEG, prodrugs or drugs). In a specific embodiment, the antibody is a
    derivative comprising an additional tag allowing specific interaction with a biologically
  5 acceptable compound. There is not a specific limitation with respect to the tag usable in
    the present invention, as far as it has no or tolerable negative impact on the binding of
    the antibody to its target. Examples of suitable tags include His-tag, Myc-tag, FLAG-tag,
    Strep-tag,     Calmodulin-tag,   GST-tag,    MBP-tag,     and S-tag.     In another specific
    embodiment, the antibody is a derivative comprising a label. The term "label" as used
 10 herein refers to a detectable compound or composition which is conjugated directly or
    indirectly to the antibody so as to generate a "labeled" antibody. The label may be
    detectable by itself, e.g. radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels, or, in the case of an
    enzymatic label, may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or
    composition which is detectable.
 15         The preferred derivatives as described herein are functionally active with regard
    to the antigen binding, preferably which have a potency to combat MDR E. coli and its
    endotoxin, e.g. as determined in an SBA, OPK or LAL assay, or to protect against
    bacterial challenge or to neutralize lethal endotoxemia.
            Antibodies derived from a parent antibody or antibody sequence are herein
 !0 particularly understood as mutants or variants obtained by e.g. in silico or recombinant
    engineering or else by chemical derivatization or synthesis.
            Specifically, an antibody derived from an antibody of the invention may comprise
    at least one or more of the CDR regions or CDR variants thereof being functionally active
    in differentially binding to the 025b antigen, e.g. specifically or selectively binding the
25  025b antigen.
            It is understood that the term "antibody" also refers to variants of an antibody.
            The term "variant" shall particularly refer to antibodies, such as mutant antibodies
    or fragments of antibodies, e.g. obtained by mutagenesis methods, in particular to
    delete, exchange, introduce inserts into a specific antibody amino acid sequence or
30  region or chemically derivatize an amino acid sequence, e.g. in the constant domains to
    engineer the antibody stability, effector function or half-life, or in the variable domains to
    improve antigen-binding properties, e.g. by affinity maturation techniques. Any of the
    known mutagenesis methods may be employed, including point mutations at desired
    positions, e.g. obtained by randomisation techniques. In some cases positions are

                                                    -18
    chosen randomly, e.g. with either any of the possible amino acids or a selection of
    preferred amino acids to randomise the antibody sequences. The term "mutagenesis"
    refers to any art recognized technique for altering a polynucleotide or polypeptide
    sequence. Preferred types of mutagenesis include error prone PCR mutagenesis,
  5 saturation mutagenesis, or other site directed mutagenesis.
           The term "variant" shall specifically encompass functionally active variants.
           The term "functionally active variant" of an antibody as used herein, means a
    sequence resulting from modification of this sequence (a parent antibody or a parent
    sequence), e.g. by insertion, deletion or substitution of one or more amino acids, such
  0 as by recombination techniques or chemical derivatization of one or more amino acid
    residues in the amino acid sequence, or nucleotides within the nucleotide sequence, or
    at either or both of the distal ends of the sequence, and which modification does not
    affect (in particular impair) the activity of this sequence. In the case of a binding site
    having specificity to a selected target antigen, the functionally active variant of an
  5 antibody would still have the predetermined binding specificity, though this could be
    changed, e.g. to change the fine specificity to a specific epitope, the affinity, the avidity,
    the Kon or Koff rate, etc. Specifically, the functionally active variants of an antibody of
    the invention have the potency to bind 025b antigen and the specificity or selectivity to
    preferentially bind to the 025b antigen relative to other antigens of E. coli, e.g. binding
 !0 to 025b and not binding to the 025a antigen of E. coli, or not significantly binding the
    025a antigen, or cross-specifically binding both, 025b and 025a antigens, but not
    binding to other antigens of E. coli.
            Functionally active variants may be obtained, e.g. by changing the sequence of a
    parent antibody, e.g. an antibody comprising the same binding site as the antibody
25  designated 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10, or8D10-C8, butwith modifications within an
    antibody region besides the binding site, or derived from a parent antibody, which is any
    of the 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10, or 8D10-C8 antibodies, by a modification within
    the binding site but that does not impair the antigen binding, and preferably would have
    a biological activity similar to the parent antibody, including the ability to specifically or
30  selectively bind 025b antigen, e.g. binding to 025b and not binding to the 025a antigen
    of E. coli, or not significantly binding the 025a antigen, or cross-specifically binding both,
    025b and 025a antigens, but not binding to other antigens of E. coli. Optionally, the
    functionally active variants may further include a potency of complement mediated killing
    in an SBA assay, and/ or optionally further include a potency of an antibody mediated

                                                  -19
   phagocytosis in an OPK assay, and/ or optionally further include endotoxin neutralization
   function in a LAL assay, e.g. with substantially the same biological activity, as
   determined by the specific binding assay or functional test to target MDR E. coli.
            For example, the functionally active variants of antibodies 6D1 -1B2 and 8A1 -1G8
 5 have substantially the same and similar binding affinities as the 8D5-1 G1 0 antibody (see
   table below).
                 6D1-1B2                           8A1-1G8                         8D5-1G10
         KD          Kon      kdis        KD          Kon        Kdis       KD         Kon       Kdis
        (nM)        (1/Ms)    (1/s)      (nM)        (1/Ms)      (1/s)     (nM)       (1/Ms)     (1/s)
         0.6      8.43E+04 < 5.0 E-05    4.72      4.01E+04    1.89E-04     1.76    4.23E+04   7.44E-05
           The term "substantially the same biological activity" as used herein refers to the
 0 activity as indicated by substantially the same activity being at least 50%, at least 60%,
   at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 98% or even at least
   100% or at least 110%, or at least 120%, or at least 130%, or at least 140%, or at least
   150%, or at least 160%, or at least 170%, or at least 180%, or at least 190%, e.g. up to
   200% of the activity as determined for the parent antibody.
 5         The preferred variants or derivatives as described herein are functionally active
   with regard to the antigen binding, preferably which have a potency to specifically bind
   025b antigen, and not binding to other antigens of E. coli, e.g. binding to 025b and not
   binding to the 025a antigen of E. coli, or not significantly binding the 025a antigen, or
   cross-specifically binding both, 025b and 025 antigens, e.g. preferentially binding the
20 025b antigen relative to 025a, or binding the 025b with higher affinity as compared to
   current polyclonal typing sera raised against 025 (025a) strains. Preferred variants are
   not binding to other antigens of E. coli, with a Kd value difference of at least 2 logs,
   preferably at least 3 logs, and optionally further including a potency of complement
   mediated killing in an SBA assay, e.g. to achieve significant reduction in bacterial counts
25 relative to control samples not containing the antibody, and/ or optionally further
   including a potency of an antibody mediated phagocytosis in an OPK assay, such as to
   achieve significant reduction in bacterial counts relative to control samples not
   containing the antibody, and/ or optionally further including endotoxin neutralization
   function in a LAL or TLR4 signalling assay, such as to achieve significant reduction in
30 free LPS relative to control samples not containing the antibody, e.g. with substantially

                                                    -20
    the same biological activity, as determined by the specific binding assay or functional
    test to target MDR E. coli. The significant reduction of analytes in the various assays
    typically means the reduction of at least 50%, preferably at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
    95% or 98% up to complete reduction of about 100% (+/- 1%).
  5         In a preferred embodiment the functionally active variant of a parent antibody
           a) is a biologically active fragment of the antibody, the fragment comprising at
    least 50% of the sequence of the molecule, preferably at least 60%, at least 70%, at
    least 80%, at least 90%, or at least 95% and most preferably at least 97%, 98% or 99%;
            b) is derived from the antibody by at least one amino acid substitution, addition
  0 and/or deletion, wherein the functionally active variant has a sequence identity to the
    molecule or part of it, such as an antibody of at least 50% sequence identity, preferably
    at least 60%, more preferably at least 70%, more preferably at least 80%, still more
    preferably at least 90%, even more preferably at least 95% and most preferably at least
    97%, 98% or 99%; and/or
  5        c) consists of the antibody or a functionally active variant thereof and additionally
    at least one amino acid or nucleotide heterologous to the polypeptide or the nucleotide
    sequence.
            In one preferred embodiment of the invention, the functionally active variant of the
    antibody according to the invention is essentially identical to the variant described above,
 !0 but differs from its polypeptide or the nucleotide sequence, respectively, in that it is
    derived from a homologous sequence of a different species. These are referred to as
    naturally occurring variants or analogs.
           The term "functionally active variant" also includes naturally occurring allelic
    variants, as well as mutants or any other non-naturally occurring variants. As is known
25  in the art, an allelic variant is an alternate form of a (poly) peptide that is characterized
    as having a substitution, deletion, or addition of one or more amino acids that does
    essentially not alter the biological function of the polypeptide.
            Functionally active variants may be obtained by sequence alterations in the
    polypeptide or the nucleotide sequence, e.g. by one or more point mutations, wherein
30  the sequence alterations retains a function of the unaltered polypeptide or the nucleotide
    sequence, when used in combination of the invention. Such sequence alterations can
    include, but are not limited to, (conservative) substitutions, additions, deletions,
    mutations and insertions.

                                                    -21
            Specific functionally active variants are CDR variants. A CDR variant includes an
    amino acid sequence modified by at least one amino acid in the CDR region, wherein
    said modification can be a chemical or a partial alteration of the amino acid sequence,
    which modification permits the variant to retain the biological characteristics of the
  5 unmodified sequence. A partial alteration of the CDR amino acid sequence may be by
    deletion or substitution of one to several amino acids, e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids, or
    by addition or insertion of one to several amino acids, e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids, or
    by a chemical derivatization of one to several amino acids, e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino
    acids, or combination thereof. The substitutions in amino acid residues may be
  0 conservative substitutions, for example, substituting one hydrophobic amino acid for an
    alternative hydrophobic amino acid.
            Conservative substitutions are those that take place within a family of amino acids
    that are related in their side chains and chemical properties. Examples of such families
    are amino acids with basic side chains, with acidic side chains, with non-polar aliphatic
  5 side chains, with non-polar aromatic side chains, with uncharged polar side chains, with
    small side chains, with large side chains etc.
            A point mutation is particularly understood as the engineering of a polynucleotide
    that results in the expression of an amino acid sequence that differs from the non
    engineered amino acid sequence in the substitution or exchange, deletion or insertion
 !0 of one or more single (non-consecutive) or doublets of amino acids for different amino
    acids.
            Preferred point mutations refer to the exchange of amino acids of the same
    polarity and/or charge. In this regard, amino acids refer to twenty naturally occurring
    amino acids encoded by sixty-four triplet codons. These 20 amino acids can be split into
25  those that have neutral charges, positive charges, and negative charges:
            The "neutral" amino acids are shown below along with their respective three-letter
    and single-letter code and polarity:
            Alanine: (Ala, A) nonpolar, neutral;
            Asparagine: (Asn, N) polar, neutral;
30          Cysteine: (Cys, C) nonpolar, neutral;
            Glutamine: (Gin, Q) polar, neutral;
            Glycine: (Gly, G) nonpolar, neutral;
            Isoleucine: (lie, I) nonpolar, neutral;
            Leucine: (Leu, L) nonpolar, neutral;

                                                  -22
           Methionine: (Met, M) nonpolar, neutral;
           Phenylalanine: (Phe, F) nonpolar, neutral;
           Proline: (Pro, P) nonpolar, neutral;
           Serine: (Ser, S) polar, neutral;
  5        Threonine: (Thr, T) polar, neutral;
           Tryptophan: (Trp, W) nonpolar, neutral;
           Tyrosine: (Tyr, Y) polar, neutral;
           Valine: (Val, V) nonpolar, neutral; and
           Histidine: (His, H) polar, positive (10%) neutral (90%).
  0        The "positively" charged amino acids are:
           Arginine: (Arg, R) polar, positive; and
           Lysine: (Lys, K) polar, positive.
           The "negatively" charged amino acids are:
           Aspartic acid: (Asp, D) polar, negative; and
  5        Glutamic acid: (Glu, E) polar, negative.
           "Percent (%) amino acid sequence identity" with respect to the antibody
    sequences and homologs described herein is defined as the percentage of amino acid
    residues in a candidate sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in the
    specific polypeptide sequence, after aligning the sequence and introducing gaps, if
 !0 necessary, to achieve the maximum percent sequence identity, and not considering any
    conservative substitutions as part of the sequence identity. Those skilled in the art can
    determine appropriate parameters for measuring alignment, including any algorithms
    needed to achieve maximal alignment over the full length of the sequences being
    compared.
25         An antibody variant is specifically understood to include homologs, analogs,
    fragments, modifications or variants with a specific glycosylation pattern, e.g. produced
    by glycoengineering, which are functional and may serve as functional equivalents, e.g.
    binding to the specific targets and with functional properties.
           An antibody of the present invention may or may not exhibit Fc effector function.
30  Preferably the antibody exhibits Fc effector function and is functionally active in an SBA
    and/or OPK assay. Specific antibodies may be devoid of an active Fc moiety, thus, either
    composed of antibody domains that do not contain an Fc part of an antibody or that do
    not contain an Fcgamma receptor binding site, or comprising antibody domains lacking
    Fc effector function, e.g. by modifications to reduce Fc effector functions. Alternative

                                                   -23
    antibodies may be engineered to incorporate modifications to increase Fc effector
    functions, in particular to enhance OPK and/or SBA activity.
            Such modifications may be effected by mutagenesis, e.g. mutations in the
    Fcgamma receptor binding site or by derivatives or agents to interfere with ADCC and/or
  5 CDC activity of an antibody format, so to achieve reduction or increase of Fc effector
    function.
            A significant reduction of Fc effector function is typically understood to refer to Fc
    effector function of less than 10% of the unmodified (wild-type) format, preferably less
    than 5%, as measured by ADCC and/or CDC activity. A significant increase of Fc effector
  0 function is typically understood to refer to an increase in Fc effector function of at least
    10% of the unmodified (wild-type) format, preferably at least 20%, 30%, 40% or 50%, as
    measured by ADCC and/or CDC activity.
            The term "glycoengineered" variants with respect to antibody sequences shall
    refer to glycosylation variants having modified immunogenic properties, ADCC and/ or
  5 CDC as a result of the glycoengineering. All antibodies contain carbohydrate structures
    at conserved positions in the heavy chain constant regions, with each isotype
    possessing a distinct array of N-linked carbohydrate structures, which variably affect
    protein assembly, secretion or functional activity. IgG1 type antibodies are glycoproteins
    that have a conserved N linked glycosylation site at Asn297 in each CH2 domain. The
 !0 two complex bi-antennary oligosaccharides attached to Asn297 are buried between the
    CH2 domains, forming extensive contacts with the polypeptide backbone, and their
    presence is essential for the antibody to mediate effector functions such as antibody
    dependent complement mediated bacterial killing or uptake by phagocytic cells.
    Removal of N-Glycan at N297, e.g. through mutating N297, e.g. to A, or T299 typically
25  results in aglycosylated antibody formats with reduced effector function.
            Major differences in antibody glycosylation occur between cell lines, and even
    minor differences are seen for a given cell line grown under different culture conditions.
    Expression in bacterial cells typically provides for an aglycosylated antibody. CHO cells
    with tetracycline-regulated expression of p(1,4)-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase             III
30  (GnTIII), a glycosyltransferase catalyzing formation of bisecting GIcNAc, was reported
    to have improved functional (ADCC) activity (Umana et al., 1999, Nature Biotech.
    17:176-180). In addition to the choice of host cells, factors that affect glycosylation during
    recombinant production of antibodies include growth mode, media formulation, culture
    density, oxygenation, pH, purification schemes and the like.

                                                    -24
             The term "antigen-binding site" or "binding site" refers to the part of an antibody
    that participates in antigen binding. The antigen binding site is formed by amino acid
    residues of the N-terminal variable ("V") regions of the heavy ("H") and/or light ("L")
    chains, or the variable domains thereof. Three highly divergent stretches within the V
  5 regions of the heavy and light chains, referred to as "hypervariable regions", are
    interposed between more conserved flanking stretches known as framework regions,
    The antigen-binding site provides for a surface that is complementary to the three
    dimensional surface of a bound epitope or antigen, and the hypervariable regions are
    referred to as "complementarity-determining regions", or "CDRs." The binding site
  0 incorporated in the CDR is herein also called "CDR binding site".
             The term "antigen" as used herein interchangeably with the terms "target" or
    "target antigen" shall refer to a whole target molecule or a fragment of such molecule
    recognized by an antibody binding site. Specifically, substructures of an antigen, e.g. a
    polypeptide or carbohydrate structure, generally referred to as "epitopes", e.g. B-cell
 15 epitopes or T-cell epitope, which are immunologically relevant, may be recognized by
    such binding site. Specific antigens like the 025b or 025a antigens are provided as
    isolated antigens, or else in the form of E. coli cells or cell fractions.
             The term "epitope" as used herein shall in particular refer to a molecular structure
    which may completely make up a specific binding partner or be part of a specific binding
 !0 partner to a binding site of an antibody. An epitope may either be occurring in nature or
    artificial, and composed of a carbohydrate, a peptidic structure, a fatty acid, an organic,
    biochemical or inorganic substance or derivatives thereof and any combinations thereof.
    If an epitope is comprised in a peptidic structure, such as a peptide, a polypeptide or a
    protein, it will usually include at least 3 amino acids, preferably 5 to 40 amino acids, and
25  more preferably between about 10-20 amino acids. Epitopes can be either linear or
    conformational epitopes. A linear epitope is comprised of a single segment of a primary
    sequence of a polypeptide or carbohydrate chain. Linear epitopes can be contiguous or
    overlapping. Conformational epitopes are comprised of amino acids or carbohydrates
    brought together by folding the polypeptide to form a tertiary structure and the amino
30  acids are not necessarily adjacent to one another in the linear sequence. Specifically
    and with regard to polypeptide antigens a conformational or discontinuous epitope is
    characterized by the presence of two or more discrete amino acid residues, separated
    in the primary sequence, but assembling to a consistent structure on the surface of the
    molecule when the polypeptide folds into the native protein/antigen.

                                                   -25
             Herein the term "epitope" shall particularly refer to the single epitope recognized
    by an antibody, or the mixture of epitopes comprising epitope variants, each recognized
    by an antibody specifically recognizing the target, e.g. the epitope specifically recognized
    by an antibody selected from the group consisting of antibodies designated as 6D1 -1B2,
  5 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G1O and 8D10-C8. Specifically, the epitope targeted by an antibody
    selected from the group consisting of 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10 and 8D10-C8 is a
    carbohydrate epitope.
            The term "expression" is understood in the following way. Nucleic acid molecules
    containing a desired coding sequence of an expression product such as e.g. an antibody
  0 as described herein, and control sequences such as e.g. a promoter in operable linkage,
    may be used for expression purposes. Hosts transformed or transfected with these
    sequences are capable of producing the encoded proteins. In order to effect
    transformation, the expression system may be included in a vector; however, the
    relevant DNA may also be integrated into the host chromosome. Specifically the term
  5 refers to a host cell and compatible vector under suitable conditions, e.g. for the
    expression of a protein coded for by foreign DNA carried by the vector and introduced
    to the host cell.
            Coding DNA is a DNA sequence that encodes a particular amino acid sequence
    for a particular polypeptide or protein such as e.g. an antibody. Promoter DNA is a DNA
 !0 sequence which initiates, regulates, or otherwise mediates or controls the expression of
    the coding DNA. Promoter DNA and coding DNA may be from the same gene or from
    different genes, and may be from the same or different organisms. Recombinant cloning
    vectors will often include one or more replication systems for cloning or expression, one
    or more markers for selection in the host, e.g. antibiotic resistance, and one or more
25  expression cassettes.
             "Vectors" used herein are defined as DNA sequences that are required for the
    transcription of cloned recombinant nucleotide sequences, i.e. of recombinant genes
    and the translation of their mRNA in a suitable host organism.
            An "expression cassette" refers to a DNA coding sequence or segment of DNA
30  that code for an expression product that can be inserted into a vector at defined
    restriction sites. The cassette restriction sites are designed to ensure insertion of the
    cassette in the proper reading frame. Generally, foreign DNA is inserted at one or more
    restriction sites of the vector DNA, and then is carried by the vector into a host cell along

                                                     -26
    with the transmissible vector DNA. A segment or sequence of DNA having inserted or
    added DNA, such as an expression vector, can also be called a "DNA construct".
             Expression vectors comprise the expression cassette and additionally usually
    comprise an origin for autonomous replication in the host cells or a genome integration
  5 site, one or more selectable markers (e.g. an amino acid synthesis gene or a gene
    conferring resistance to antibiotics such as zeocin, kanamycin, G418 or hygromycin), a
    number of restriction enzyme cleavage sites, a suitable promoter sequence and a
    transcription terminator, which components are operably linked together. The term
    "vector" as used herein includes autonomously replicating nucleotide sequences as well
  0 as genome integrating nucleotide sequences. A common type of vector is a "plasmid",
    which generally is a self-contained molecule of double-stranded DNA that can readily
    accept additional (foreign) DNA and which can readily be introduced into a suitable host
    cell. A plasmid vector often contains coding DNA and promoter DNA and has one or
    more restriction sites suitable for inserting foreign DNA. Specifically, the term "vector" or
 15 "plasmid" refers to a vehicle by which a DNA or RNA sequence (e.g. a foreign gene) can
    be introduced into a host cell, so as to transform the host and promote expression (e.g.
    transcription and translation) of the introduced sequence.
             The term "host cell" as used herein shall refer to primary subject cells transformed
    to produce a particular recombinant protein, such as an antibody as described herein,
 !0 and any progeny thereof. It should be understood that not all progeny are exactly
    identical to the parental cell (due to deliberate or inadvertent mutations or differences in
    environment), however, such altered progeny are included in these terms, so long as
    the progeny retain the same functionality as that of the originally transformed cell. The
    term "host cell line" refers to a cell line of host cells as used for expressing a recombinant
25  gene to produce recombinant polypeptides such as recombinant antibodies. The term
    "cell line" as used herein refers to an established clone of a particular cell type that has
    acquired the ability to proliferate over a prolonged period of time. Such host cell or host
    cell line may be maintained in cell culture and/or cultivated to produce a recombinant
    polypeptide.
30           An "immune response" to a composition, e.g. an immunogenic composition,
    herein also termed "immunogen" comprising an antigen or epitope, or a vaccine as
    described herein is the development in the host or subject of a cellular- and/or antibody
    mediated immune response to the composition or vaccine of interest. Usually, such a
    response consists of the subject producing antibodies, B cells, helper T cells, suppressor

                                                    -27
    T cells, and/or cytotoxic T cells directed specifically to an antigen or antigens included
    in the composition or vaccine of interest.
             A "protective immune response" is understood as therapeutic immune response
    and refers to an immune response to an antigen derived from a pathogen, which in
  5 some way prevents, ameliorates, treats or at least partially arrests disease symptoms,
    side effects or progression. Specifically the protective immune response is triggered
    that provides a significantly better outcome of an induced or natural infection or toxin
    challenge in comparison to that of the non-immune population.
             An immunogen or immunogenic composition usually comprises the antigen or
  0 epitope and a carrier, which may specifically comprise an adjuvant. The term "adjuvant"
    refers to a compound that when administered in conjunction with an antigen augments
    and/or redirects the immune response to the antigen, but when administered alone does
    not generate an immune response to the antigen. Adjuvants can augment an immune
    response by several mechanisms including lymphocyte recruitment, stimulation of B
  5 and/or T cells, and stimulation of macrophages. Exemplary carriers are liposomes or
    cationic peptides; exemplary adjuvants are aluminium phosphate or aluminium
    hydroxide, MF59 or CpG oligonucleotide.
             The term "isolated" or "isolation" as used herein with respect to a nucleic acid, an
    antibody or other compound shall refer to such compound that has been sufficiently
 !0 separated from the environment with which it would naturally be associated, so as to
    exist in "substantially pure" form. "Isolated" does not necessarily mean the exclusion of
    artificial or synthetic mixtures with other compounds or materials, or the presence of
    impurities that do not interfere with the fundamental activity, and that may be present,
    for example, due to incomplete purification. In particular, isolated nucleic acid molecules
25  of the present invention are also meant to include those chemically synthesized.
             With reference to nucleic acids of the invention, the term "isolated nucleic acid" is
    sometimes used. This term, when applied to DNA, refers to a DNA molecule that is
    separated from sequences with which it is immediately contiguous in the naturally
    occurring genome of the organism in which it originated. For example, an "isolated
30  nucleic acid" may comprise a DNA molecule inserted into a vector, such as a plasmid or
    virus vector, or integrated into the genomic DNA of a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell or
    host organism. When applied to RNA, the term "isolated nucleic acid" refers primarily to
    an RNA molecule encoded by an isolated DNA molecule as defined above. Alternatively,
    the term may refer to an RNA molecule that has been sufficiently separated from other

                                                    -28
    nucleic acids with which it would be associated in its natural state (i.e., in cells or tissues).
    An "isolated nucleic acid" (either DNA or RNA) may further represent a molecule
    produced directly by biological or synthetic means and separated from other
    components present during its production.
  5        With reference to polypeptides or proteins, such as antibodies or epitopes of the
    invention, the term "isolated" shall specifically refer to compounds that are free or
    substantially free of material with which they are naturally associated such as other
    compounds with which they are found in their natural environment, or the environment
    in which they are prepared (e g. cell culture) when such preparation is by recombinant
  0 DNA technology practiced in vitro or in vivo. Isolated compounds can be formulated with
    diluents or adjuvants and still for practical purposes be isolated - for example, the
    polypeptides or polynucleotides can be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
    or excipients when used in diagnosis or therapy. In particular, the isolated antibody of
    the invention differs from polyclonal serum preparations raised against 025(a) strains,
  5 because it is provided in the isolated and purified form, preferably provided in a
    preparation comprising the isolated antibody as the only active substance. This does not
    preclude, however, that the isolated antibody is provided in a combination product
    comprising a limited number of further well-defined (isolated) antibodies. Isolated
    antibodies may as well be provided on a solid, semi-liquid or liquid carrier, such as
 !0 beads.
           The term "neutralizing" or "neutralization" is used herein in the broadest sense
    and refers to any molecule that inhibits a pathogen, such as MDR E.coli from infecting
    a subject, or to inhibit the pathogen from promoting infections by producing potent
    protein toxins, or to inhibit the toxins from damaging a target cell in a subject, irrespective
25  of the mechanism by which neutralization is achieved. Neutralization can be achieved,
    e.g., by an antibody that inhibits the binding and/or interaction of the MDR E.coli
    endotoxin with its cognate receptor on target cells (e.g. binding to the TLR4 receptor).
    Neutralization can further occur by removal of endotoxin molecules from the circulation
    by Fc mediated functions.
30         The neutralization potency is typically determined in a standard assay, e.g. LAL
    test, where the inhibition of endotoxin's biological activity is measured, e.g. by
    colorimetry.
           The term "MDR E. coli" is understood in the following way: Infections with multi
    drug resistant E. coli that are in a significant portion are due to the ST131-025b:H4

                                                     -29
    clonal lineage, which emerged only in the last decade and became a globally spread
    dominant resistant clone. Multi-resistant E. coli is particularly understood as those
    strains demonstrating resistance to three or more classes of antibiotics, e.g. the following
    agents/groups:      penicillins,    cephalosporins,      carbapenems,     aminoglycosides,
  5 tetracyclines, fuoroquinolones, nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim       (and its combinations),
    fosfomycin, polymixins, chloramphenicol, azthreonam, tigecycline.
            The acidic capsular polysaccharide (CPS) is a thick, mucous-like, layer of
    polysaccharide that surrounds most pathogen E. coli. It is, thus, surprising that the
    specific epitope recognized by an antibody of the invention would specifically be
  0 accessible on both, the encapsulated and the non-encapsulated MDR E. coli strain.
            Antibodies combating or neutralizing MDR E. coli are interfering with the
    pathogens and pathogenic reactions, thus able to limit or prevent infection and/ or to
    ameliorate a disease condition resulting from such infection, or to inhibit MDR E. coli
    pathogenesis, in particular dissemination and replication into or within sterile body
  5 compartments/sites of the host. In this regard "protective antibodies" are understood
    herein as antibodies that are responsible for immunity to an infectious agent observed
    in active or passive immunity. In particular, protective antibodies as described herein are
    possibly used for therapeutic purposes, e.g. for prophylaxis or therapy, to prevent,
    ameliorate, treat or at least partially arrest disease symptoms, side effects or progression
 !0 of disease induced by a pathogen. Specifically, protective antibodies are able to kill or
    impede replication of live E. coli cells by e.g. inducing serum bactericidal or
    opsonophagocytic activities, or remove whole bacterial cells or the LPS molecules
    thereof from the sterile body sites following therapeutic applications (i.e. given on an
    established infection). Alternatively, prophylactically applied protective antibodies inhibit
25  establishment of an infection (i.e. spread of E. coli from non-sterile sites to sterile body
    compartments) by one of the abovementioned or other mechanisms.
            The term "025b antigen" is herein understood as the LPS O-antigen with structure
    elucidated in example 2 and Figure 3 (a).The structure is similar, but distinct from that
    of the 025(a) antigen. 025b is herein understood as a serotype, which is similar, but
30  distinct from 025a (see Figure 3 (a)).
            The term "025 antigen" is herein understood as the antigen made of the
    pentasaccharide repeating unit described by Kenne et al. (Kenne L, Lindberg B, Madden
    JK, Lindberg AA, Gemski P Jr. Structural studies of the Escherichia coli O-antigen 25.

                                                   -30
    Carbohydr Res. 28;122(2):249-56, 1983). Before identifying the 025b antigen, the term
    025 has stood for 025a as described herein (see Figure 3 (b)).
            The term "025a antigen" is herein understood as a synonym for 025 antigen.
            The term "recombinant" as used herein shall mean "being prepared by or the
  5 result of genetic engineering". A recombinant host specifically comprises an expression
    vector or cloning vector, or it has been genetically engineered to contain a recombinant
    nucleic acid sequence, in particular employing nucleotide sequence foreign to the host.
    A recombinant protein is produced by expressing a respective recombinant nucleic acid
    in a host. The term "recombinant antibody", as used herein, includes antibodies that are
  0 prepared, expressed, created or isolated by recombinant means, such as (a) antibodies
    isolated from an animal (e.g., a mouse) that is transgenic or transchromosomal for
    human immunoglobulin genes or a hybridoma prepared therefrom, (b) antibodies
    isolated from a host cell transformed to express the antibody, e.g., from a transfectoma,
    (c) antibodies isolated from a recombinant, combinatorial human antibody library, and
  5 (d) antibodies prepared, expressed, created or isolated by any other means that involve
    splicing of human immunoglobulin gene sequences to other DNA sequences. Such
    recombinant antibodies comprise antibodies engineered to include rearrangements and
    mutations which occur, for example, during antibody maturation.
            As used herein, the term "specificity" or "specific binding" refers to a binding
 !0 reaction which is determinative of the cognate ligand of interest in a heterogeneous
    population of molecules. Thus, under designated conditions (e.g. immunoassay
    conditions), an antibody specifically binds to its particular target and does not bind in a
    significant amount to other molecules present in a sample. The specific binding means
    that binding is selective in terms of target identity, high, medium or low binding affinity or
25  avidity, as selected. Selective binding is usually achieved if the binding constant or
    binding dynamics is at least 10 fold different (understood as at least 1 log difference),
    preferably the difference is at least 100 fold (understood as at least 2 logs difference),
    and more preferred a least 1000 fold (understood as at least 3 logs difference). The term
    "specificity" or "specific binding" is also understood to apply to binders which bind to one
30  or more molecules, e.g. cross-specific binders.
            The antibody of the invention specifically is selective in only binding the 025b
    antigen, or preferentially binding the 025b antigen relative to the 025a antigen, or
    binding the 025b with higher affinity as compared to polyclonal serum raised against
    025a strains, which serum binds to the 025b antigen with a low affinity. Thus, the

                                                  -31
    antibody of the invention may be understood to differentially bind those antigens, e.g. at
    least with equal affinity, or more than equal affinity, such as with a different affinity with
    a Kd difference of at least 1 log, preferably at least 2 logs, more preferably at least 3
    logs. Such antibody selectively binding to the 025b antigen relative to the 025a antigen
  5 is preferably used for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. For some diagnostic purposes
    an antibody is specifically used which only binds the 025b antigen in a detectable
    manner.
            Use of the term "having the same specificity", "having the same binding site" or
    "binding the same epitope" indicates that equivalent monoclonal antibodies exhibit the
  0 same or essentially the same, i.e. similar immunoreaction (binding) characteristics and
    compete for binding to a pre-selected target binding sequence. The relative specificity
    of an antibody molecule for a particular target can be relatively determined by
    competition assays, e.g. as described in Harlow, et al., ANTIBODIES: A LABORATORY
    MANUAL, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1988).
 15         The term "subject" as used herein shall refer to a warm-blooded mammalian,
    particularly a human being. In particular the medical use of the invention or the
    respective method of treatment applies to a subject in need of prophylaxis or treatment
    of a disease condition associated with a MDR E. coli infection or suffering from disease,
    including early stage or late stage disease. The term "patient" includes human and other
 !0 mammalian subjects that receive either prophylactic or therapeutic treatment. The term
    "treatment" is thus meant to include both prophylactic and therapeutic treatment.
            A subject is e.g. treated for prophylaxis or therapy of MDR E. coli disease
    conditions. In particular, the subject is treated, which is either at risk of infection or
    developing such disease or disease recurrence, or a subject that is suffering from such
25  infection and/ or disease associated with such infection.
            Specifically the term "prophylaxis" refers to preventive measures which is
    intended to encompass prevention of the onset of pathogenesis or prophylactic
    measures to reduce the risk of pathogenesis.
            Specifically, the method for treating, preventing, or delaying a disease condition
30  in a subject as described herein, is by interfering with the pathogenesis of MDR E. coli
    as causal agent of the condition.
            The term "substantially pure" or "purified" as used herein shall refer to a
    preparation comprising at least 50% (w/w), preferably at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or
    95% of a compound, such as a nucleic acid molecule or an antibody. Purity is measured

                                                    -32
    by    methods     appropriate    for  the   compound    (e.g.  chromatographic      methods,
    polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, HPLC analysis, and the like).
            The term "therapeutically effective amount", used herein interchangeably with any
    of the terms "effective amount" or "sufficient amount" of a compound, e.g. an antibody
  5 or immunogen of the present invention, is a quantity or activity sufficient to, when
    administered to the subject effect beneficial or desired results, including clinical results,
    and, as such, an effective amount or synonym thereof depends upon the context in which
    it is being applied.
            An effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a compound that is
  0 sufficient to treat, prevent or inhibit such diseases or disorder. In the context of disease,
    therapeutically effective amounts of the antibody as described herein are specifically
    used to treat, modulate, attenuate, reverse, or affect a disease or condition that benefits
    from an inhibition of MDR E. coli pathogenesis, for example, adhesion and colonization
    of mucosal surfaces, uncontrolled replication within sterile body sites, and toxicity of host
  5 cells by bacterial products.
            The amount of the compound that will correspond to such an effective amount will
    vary depending on various factors, such as the given drug or compound, the
    pharmaceutical formulation, the route of administration, the type of disease or disorder,
    the identity of the subject or host being treated, and the like, but can nevertheless be
 !0 routinely determined by one skilled in the art.
            The antibody or the immunogen of the present invention may be used
    prophylactically to inhibit onset of MDR E. coli infection, or therapeutically to treat MDR
    E. coli infection, particularly MDR E. coli infections that are known to be refractory or in
    the case of the specific subject, have proven refractory to treatment with other
25  conventional antibiotic therapy.
            A therapeutically effective amount of the antibody as described herein, such as
    provided to a human patient in need thereof, may specifically be in the range of 0.5-500
    mg, preferably 1-400 mg, even more preferred up to 300 mg, up to 200 mg, up to 100
    mg or up to 10 mg, though higher doses may be indicated e.g. for treating acute disease
30  conditions.
             Moreover, a treatment or prevention regime of a subject with a therapeutically
    effective amount of the antibody of the present invention may consist of a single
    administration, or alternatively comprise a series of applications. For example, the
    antibody may be administered at least once a year, at least once a half-year or at least

                                                  -33
    once a month. However, in another embodiment, the antibody may be administered to
    the subject from about one time per week to about a daily administration for a given
    treatment. The length of the treatment period depends on a variety of factors, such as
    the severity of the disease, either acute or chronic disease, the age of the patient, the
  5 concentration and the activity of the antibody format. It will also be appreciated that the
    effective dosage used for the treatment or prophylaxis may increase or decrease over
    the course of a particular treatment or prophylaxis regime. Changes in dosage may
    result and become apparent by standard diagnostic assays known in the art. In some
    instances, chronic administration may be required.
  0         An effective amount of an immunogen as described herein, such as provided to
    a patient at risk of developing a disease condition associated with an MDR E. coli
    infection, may specifically be in the range of 1-15 mg/kg per dose.
            For example the immunogen may be administered as a first dose followed by one
    or more booster dose(s), within a certain timeframe, according to a prime-boost
  5 immunization scheme to induce a long-lasting, efficacious immune response to an MDR
    E. coli infection. A preferred vaccination schedule would encompass administration of
    three doses, e.g. a first dose on day 0, a second dose on day 5-40, and a third dose on
    day 10-100, preferably on days 0, 28 and 90. According to a preferred accelerated
    schedule the administration may be on days 0, 7 and 14. Accelerated schedules may be
 !0 indicated for prophylaxis, e.g. for patients facing elective surgery. Usually alum is used
    as an adjuvant, e.g. as phosphate or hydroxide.
            Therefore, the present subject matter is based on the discovery of murine mAbs
    highly specific to 025b. These antibodies have great potential as diagnostic reagents
    for the identification of MDR strains belonging to the ST131 lineage. Furthermore, in
25  particular following humanization, these mAbs are suitable to be used for the prophylaxis
    (e.g. for high risk groups) and treatment of E. coli infections caused by ST131-025b:H4
    strains.
            The 025b and 025 (025a) carbohydrate antigens were thought to be identical or
    very similar based on the fact that immune serum against 025 is routinely used in the
30  diagnostic identification of E. coli strains expressing 025b antigens. The genetic
    background of O-antigen synthesis in ST131 strains is not fully elucidated, however, a
    specific gene within the rfb cluster (encoding O-antigen synthesis) forms the basis of
    PCR based identification of 025b strains. Furthermore, no structural data supported any
    difference between 025(a) and 025b antigens so far.

                                                  -34
           It was, thus, surprising that an antibody of invention could specifically bind the
    025b antigen, and specifically differentiate between 025b and 025a antigens.
           In order to confirm the genetic difference between 025b and 025a antigen
    expressing E. coli strains, the rfb cluster encoding O-antigen synthesis was sequenced
  5 from a commercially available strain 81009 (Szijarto et al, FEMS Microbiol Lett, 2012,
    332:131-6) using a primer walk method starting with oligonucleotides specific to
    conserved flanking genes: gnd and gaiF. The resulting contig of the rfb operon is 11,300
    bp long and only partially homologous to that encoding the 025 antigen synthesis
    enzymes (NCBI accession number GU014554). It turned out that a 2043 bp long
  0 segment at the 3' end of the 025b rfb operon is non-homologous to the corresponding
    region of the 025 rfb operon, where this segment is replaced by a 6267 bp long
    sequence encoding fucose synthesis amd transport.
           The structure of the O-specific PS biological repeating unit (RU) present in LPS
    isolated from E. coli ST131 was analysed in details in a purified fraction built up by the
  5 core OS substituting with one repeating unit (RU). The RU of the LPS ST131 is an 0
    acetylated pentasaccharide with the structure depicted on Fig. 3.
           In fact, the RU structure of the ST131 O-PS differs from the LPS 025 RU reported
    by Kenne et al. (Kenne, Lindberg et al., Carbohydr Res. 1983 Oct 28; 122(2):249-56)
    and to the best of our knowledge it is a new O-serotype among                      E. coli
 !0 lipopolysaccharides (Stenutz et al. FEMS Microbiol Rev. 2006 May; 30(3):382-403.
    Review). Additionally, preliminary results of MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and
    composition analyses (sugar and methylation analyses) of a core oligosaccharide
    isolated from LPS ST1 31 supported K-1 2 type, what was previously reported by Szijert6
    V. et al. on the basis of genetic analyses (Szijarto et al, FEMS Microbiol Lett, 2012,
25  332:131-6). It was shown that LPS ST1 31 is consisted of two main core oligosaccharides
    (OS) glycoforms. The type of glycoform is dependent on the presence or absence of the
    O-specific polysaccharide (PS). Prevailing glycoform of the unsubstituted core OS is
    truncated version of K-12 core oligosaccharide, which is devoid of -+7)-aX-Hepp-(1---+6)
    a-Glcp disaccharide. Presence of that disaccharide is the difference between O-PS
30  substituted core OS and nonsubstituted core OS.
           According to a specific aspect, there is provided an antibody selectively binding
    the 025b specific epitope, e.g. binding the same epitope as the 8D5-1G10 antibody or
    any of the antibodies designated as 6D1-1B2 or 8A1-1G8, or the 8D10-C8 antibody,
    which term includes variants binding to essentially the same epitope; or comprising the

                                                    -35
    same binding site as the 8D5-1G10 antibody or any of the antibodies designated as 6D1
    1B2 or 8A1-1G8, or the 8D10-C8 antibody, which term includes variants comprising
    essentially the same binding site. The antibodies designated as 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8,
    8D5-1G10 would particularly comprise a binding site specifically differentiating between
  5 the 025b antigen and the 025a antigen, and binding only the 025b antigen. The
    antibody designated as 8D10-C8 would particularly comprise a binding site cross
    specifically binding the 025b and 025a antigens, and preferentially binding the 025b
    antigen as compared to the 025a antigen.
            Antibodies are said to "bind to the same epitope" or "comprising the same binding
 10 site" or have "essentially the same binding" characteristics, if the antibodies cross
    compete so that only one antibody can bind to the epitope at a given point of time, i.e.
    one antibody prevents the binding or modulating effect of the other.
            The term "compete" or "cross-compete", as used herein with regard to an
    antibody, means that a first antibody, or an antigen-binding portion thereof, binds to an
 15 epitope in a manner sufficiently similar to the binding of a second antibody, or an antigen
    binding portion thereof, such that the result of binding of the first antibody with its cognate
    epitope is detectably decreased in the presence of the second antibody compared to the
    binding of the first antibody in the absence of the second antibody. The alternative,
    where the binding of the second antibody to its epitope is also detectably decreased in
 !0 the presence of the first antibody, can, but need not be the case. That is, a first antibody
    can inhibit the binding of a second antibody to its epitope without that second antibody
    inhibiting the binding of the first antibody to its respective epitope. However, where each
    antibody detectably inhibits the binding of the other antibody with its cognate epitope,
    whether to the same, greater, or lesser extent, the antibodies are said to "cross
25  compete" with each other for binding of their respective epitope(s). Both competing and
    cross-competing antibodies are encompassed by the present invention.
            Competition herein means a greater relative inhibition than about 30% as
    determined by competition ELISA analysis, e.g. as described in the Examples section.
    It may be desirable to set a higher threshold of relative inhibition as criteria of what is a
30  suitable level of competition in a particular context, e.g., where the competition analysis
    is used to select or screen for new antibodies designed with the intended function of the
    binding of 025b. Thus, for example, it is possible to set criteria for the competitive
    binding, wherein at least 40% relative inhibition is detected, or at least 50%, at least

                                                  -36
    60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or even at least 100%, before an antibody
    is considered sufficiently competitive.
            Specifically, there is provided an antibody comprising the variable region of any
    of the antibodies designated as 6D1 -1B2, 8A1-1 G8, 8D5-1 G10, or 8D10-C8, in particular
  5 at least one of the CDR sequences, preferably at least two, at least 3, at least 4, at least
    5 or at least six of the CDR sequences of an antibody selected from the group consisting
    of 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10 and 8D10-C8 antibodies, or CDR variants thereof
    which are functionally active. More specifically, there is provided any of the antibodies
    designated as 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10, or 8D10-C8.
  0         Specifically, the antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 antibody or 8D10-C8
    antibody, or any functionally active variant thereof may be produced employing the
    deposited material or the respective nucleotide sequence contained therein, such as one
    of the plasmids and/or one of the deposited host cells.
            According to a specific aspect, the 8D5-1 G1 0 antibody or a functionally equivalent
  5 variant thereof may be derived from an antibody comprising a variable region encoded
    by any of the plasmids incorporated in the deposited host cells under DSM 26763 and/or
    DSM 26762; e.g. employing a partial or (point) mutated CDR sequence of the deposited
    material to engineer the specific antibody or any functionally active variant thereof.
            According to a further specific aspect, the 8D5-1G10 antibody or a functionally
 !0 equivalent variant thereof may be derived from or employing the variable region of an
    antibody produced by a host cell deposited under DSM 26763 and/or DSM 26762; e.g.
    employing a partial sequence, e.g. one or more of the CDR sequences, of the deposited
    material to engineer the specific antibody or any functionally active variant thereof.
            Specifically, the 6D1-1B2 or 8A1-1G8 antibody variant is a CDR variant of the
25  8D5-1G10 antibody that is functionally active, e.g. with partial alterations in at least one
    of the CDR sequences.
            According to a specific aspect, the 8D10-C8 antibody or a functionally equivalent
    variant thereof may be derived from an antibody comprising a variable region encoded
    by any of the plasmids incorporated in the deposited host cells under DSM 28171 and/or
30  DSM 28172; e.g. employing a partial or (point) mutated CDR sequence of the deposited
    material to engineer the specific antibody or any functionally active variant thereof.
            According to a further specific aspect, the 8D10-C8 antibody or a functionally
    equivalent variant thereof may be derived from or employing the variable region of an
    antibody produced by a host cell deposited under DSM 28171 and/or DSM 28172; e.g.

                                                 -37
    employing a partial sequence, e.g. one or more of the CDR sequences, of the deposited
    material to engineer the specific antibody or any functionally active variant thereof.
            In certain aspects, the invention provides for such variant antibodies, preferably
    monoclonal antibodies, most preferably murine, humanized or human antibodies,
  5 comprising a heavy chain and a light chain, wherein any of the heavy chain or VH
    variable region or the respective CDRs comprises an amino acid sequence as derived
    from the respective deposited plasmid and/or from the respective deposited host cell.
            In certain aspects, the invention provides for such variant antibodies, preferably
    monoclonal antibodies, most preferably murine, humanized or human antibodies,
  0 comprising a heavy chain and a light chain, wherein any of the light chain or VL variable
    region or the respective CDRs comprises an amino acid sequence as derived from the
    respective deposited plasmid and/or from the respective deposited host cell.
            In certain aspects, the invention provides for such variant antibodies, preferably
    monoclonal antibodies, most preferably murine, humanized or human antibodies,
  5 comprising a heavy chain and a light chain, wherein any of the heavy and light chain, or
    the VHNL variable regions, or the respective CDRs comprises an amino acid sequence
    as derived from the respective deposited plasmids and/or from the respective deposited
    host cells.
            In certain aspects, the invention also provides for such variant antibodies,
 !0 comprising the respective binding sequences, such as the variable sequences and/or
    the CDR sequences, as derived from the deposited material, wherein the binding
    sequences, e.g. any CDR sequence, comprises a sequence that has at least 60%, at
    least 70%, or at least 80%, or at least 90%, or at least 95%, or at least 99% identity to
    the amino acid sequence as derived from the deposited material, and wherein the variant
25  is a functionally active variant.
           As described herein, in one aspect the invention provides antibody molecules
    characterized by, e.g. the ability to compete with monoclonal antibody 8D5-1G10 or
    8D10-C8 for binding to the 025b antigen. Any of the 6D1-1B2, 8A1-1G8, 8D5-1G10,
    antibodies is a murine IgG3 antibody and 8D10-C8 antibody is a murine IgG2b antibody
30  which carries kappa light chains, which the inventors isolated and characterized. The
    variable domains of the 8D5-1G10 antibody or the 8D10-C8 antibody are expressed by
    the deposited material as referenced herein. Thus, the binding characteristics as
    determined by the light chain and heavy chain, and the VL/VH domains of the 8D5-1G10
    antibody or the 8D10-C8 antibody are fully disclosed herewith, enabling its use as a

                                                      -38
    parent antibody or the comparison with functionally active variants or competing
    antibodies of the invention.
            The mature variable domain of the heavy chain of 8D5-1G10 (8D5-1G10-HC) is
    e.g. produced employing the host cell of DSM 26762, or the respective sequence
  5 information of the encoding plasmid incorporated therein.
            The mature variable domain of the light chain of 8D5-1 G1 0 (8D5-1 G1 0-LC) is e.g.
    produced employing the host cell of DSM 26763, or the respective sequence information
    of the encoding plasmid incorporated therein.
            The mature variable domain of the heavy chain of 8D10-C8 (8D10-C8-HC) is e.g.
  0 produced employing the host cell of DSM 28172, or the respective sequence information
    of the encoding plasmid incorporated therein.
            The mature variable domain of the light chain of 8D10-C8 (8D10-C8-LC) is e.g.
    produced employing the host cell of DSM 28171, or the respective sequence information
    of the encoding plasmid incorporated therein.
  5         The differential binding affinity to preferably bind the 025b antigen relative to
    other E. coli antigens, e.g. any carbohydrate antigens other than 025 antigen or any
    core antigens, is preferably at least 10-fold higher, i.e. with a Kd difference of at least
    10, preferably at least 100-fold higher, more preferred at least 1000 fold higher.
            The differential binding affinity to preferentially bind the 025b antigen is
 !0 specifically at least 5 fold, or at least 6-fold, or at least 7-fold, or at least 8-fold, or at least
    9-fold, or at least 10-fold higher, in comparison to commercial typing serum, such as the
    high titer E. coli 025 antiserum from Statens Serum Institut (#81369).
            The differential binding affinity to preferentially bind the 025b antigen relative to
    the 025a antigen is specifically at least equal or more than equal, e.g. at least 1.5 fold,
25  or at least 2-fold, or at least 3-fold, or at least 4-fold, or at least 5 fold, or at least 6-fold,
    or at least 7-fold, or at least 8-fold, or at least 9-fold, or at least 10-fold higher.
            Preferred antibodies of the invention are binding any of said individual antigens,
    in particular the 025b antigen, with a high affinity, in particular with a high on and/or a
    low off rate, or a high avidity of binding. The binding affinity of an antibody is usually
30  characterized in terms of the concentration of the antibody, at which half of the antigen
    binding sites are occupied, known as the dissociation constant (Kd, or Ko). Usually a
    binder is considered a high affinity binder with a Kd<10- 7 M, in some cases, e.g. for
    therapeutic purposes with higher affinities, e.g. with a Kd<10-8 M, preferably a Kd<10-9
    M, even more preferred is a Kd<10-10 M.

                                                   -39
             Yet, in a particularly preferred embodiment the individual antigen binding affinities
    are of medium affinity, e.g. with a Kd of less than 10-6 and up to 10-7 M, e.g. when binding
    to at least two antigens.
             Medium affinity binders may be provided according to the invention, preferably in
  5 conjunction with an affinity maturation process, if necessary.
             Affinity maturation is the process by which antibodies with increased affinity for a
    target antigen are produced. With structural changes of an antibody, including amino
    acid mutagenesis or as a consequence of somatic mutation in immunoglobulin gene
    segments, variants of a binding site to an antigen are produced and selected for greater
  0 affinities. Affinity matured antibodies may exhibit a several logfold greater affinity than a
    parent antibody. Single parent antibodies may be subject to affinity maturation.
    Alternatively pools of antibodies with similar binding affinity to the target antigen may be
    considered as parent structures that are varied to obtain affinity matured single
    antibodies or affinity matured pools of such antibodies.
  5          The preferred affinity maturated variant of an antibody according to the invention
    exhibits at least a 10 fold increase in affinity of binding, preferably at least a 100 fold
    increase. The affinity maturation may be employed in the course of the selection
    campaigns employing respective libraries of parent molecules, either with antibodies
    having medium binding affinity to obtain the antibody of the invention having the specific
 !0 target binding property of a binding affinity Kd<10- 7 M. Alternatively, the affinity may be
    even more increased by affinity maturation of the antibody according to the invention to
    obtain the high values corresponding to a Kd of less than 10-8 M or less than 10-9 M,
    preferably less than 10-10 M or even less than 10-11 M, most preferred in the picomolar
    range.
25           A specific aspect refers to an antibody of the invention characterized by a specific
    anti-bacterial functional activity, such as complement mediated bacterial killing and
    opsonophagocytic uptake and killing.
             Phagocytic effector cells may be activated through another route employing
    activation of complement. Antibodies that bind to surface antigens on microorganisms
30  attract the first component of the complement cascade with their Fc region and initiate
    activation of the "classical" complement system. This results in the stimulation of
    phagocytic effector cells, which ultimately kill the target bacteria by complement and
    antibody dependent mechanisms (CDC).

                                                  -40
            According to a specific embodiment, the antibody of the invention has a cytotoxic
    activity in the presence of immune-effector cells as measured in a standard SBA or OPK
    assay. A cytotoxic activity as determined by either of an SBA or OPK assay may be
    shown for an antibody of the invention, if there is a significant increase in the percentage
  5 of bacterial killing as compared to a control. The bactericidal activity related to SBA or
    OPK is preferably measured as the absolute percentage increase, which is preferably
    higher than 5%, more preferably higher than 10%, even more preferred higher than 20%,
    30%, 40% or 50%.
            Antibodies of the present invention may be identified or obtained employing a
  0 hybridoma method. In such method, a mouse or other appropriate host animal, such as
    a hamster, is immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing
    antibodies that will specifically bind to the protein used for immunization. Alternatively,
    lymphocytes may be immunized in vitro. Lymphocytes then are fused with myeloma cells
    using a suitable fusing agent, such as polyethylene glycol, to form a hybridoma cell.
  5         Culture medium in which hybridoma cells are growing is assayed for production
    of monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen. Preferably, the binding specificity
    of   monoclonal      antibodies   produced    by   hybridoma     cells  is   determined   by
    immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro binding assay, such as radioimmunoassay (RIA) or
    enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA).
 !0         For example, the antibodies of the present invention may be obtained from source
    (parent) antibodies, e.g. obtained by immunizing mice with a non-encapsulated mutant
    of a representative ST131-025b:H4 strain 81009 (e.g. 81009Akps::kan) by replacing the
    kps cluster (encoding capsular synthesis) with a cassette encoding kanamycin
    resistance. Serum samples obtained from the mice may then be analyzed, and the
25  spleen of the mouse showing the highest IgG titer against 025b antigen (in ELISA and
    Western Blot) may be used for hybridoma generation. Following sub-cloning, hybridoma
    clones may be selected, which secreted antibodies specific to 025b antigens as well as
    bound to the surface of live wild-type E. coli strains expressing 025b antigens. These
    mAbs may then be purified from hybridoma supernatants for further testing for its specific
30  binding of 025b antigen and possibly for its differential binding affinity to preferentially
    bind 025b antigen relative to 025a antigen, and engineering of antibodies, e.g. for
    different diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.
            Differentially binding antibodies, herein also called selective antibodies, in some
    instances, emerge through screening against single antigens. To increase the likelihood

                                                   -41
    of isolating differentially binding clones one would apply multiple selective pressures by
    processively screening against the different antigens. Special mAb selection strategies
    employ the O25b and O25a components or other E. coli antigens in an alternating
    fashion.
  5         The recombinant antigen(s) may be used for selecting antibodies from an
    antibody library, e.g. a yeast-displayed antibody library.
            In either event, selective binding can be further improved by antibody optimization
    methods known in the art. For example, certain regions of the variable regions of the
    immunoglobulin chains described herein may be subjected to one or more optimization
  0 strategies,    including    light  chain   shuffling,  destinational  mutagenesis,    CDR
    amalgamation, and directed mutagenesis of selected CDR and/or framework regions.
            Screening methods for identifying antibodies with the desired selective binding
    properties may be done by display technologies (using phage, bacterial, yeast or
    mammalian cells). Reactivity can be assessed based on ELISA, Western blotting or
  5 surface staining with flow cytometry, e.g. using standard assays.
            Once differentially binding antibodies with the desired properties have been
    identified, the dominant epitope or epitopes recognized by the antibodies may be
    determined. Methods for epitope mapping are well-known in the art and are disclosed,
    for example, in Epitope Mapping: A Practical Approach, Westwood and Hay, eds.,
 !0 Oxford University Press, 2001.
            Epitope mapping concerns the identification of the epitope to which an antibody
    binds. There are many methods known to those of skill in the art for determining the
    location of epitopes on proteins, including crystallography analysis of the antibody
    antigen complex, competition assays, gene fragment expression assays, and synthetic
25  peptide-based assays. An antibody that "binds the same epitope" as a reference
    antibody is herein understood in the following way. When two antibodies recognize
    epitopes that are identical or sterically overlapping epitopes, the antibodies are referred
    to as binding the same or essentially the same or substantially the same epitopes. A
    commonly used method for determining whether two antibodies bind to identical or
30  sterically overlapping epitopes is the competition assay, which can be configured in all
    number of different formats, using either labeled antigen or labeled antibody. Usually,
    an antigen is immobilized on a 96-well plate, and the ability of unlabeled antibodies to
    block the binding of labeled antibodies is measured using radioactive or enzyme labels.

                                                   -42
            Once antibodies with the desired differentially binding properties are identified,
    such antibodies, including antibody fragments can be produced by methods well-known
    in the art, including, for example, hybridoma techniques or recombinant DNA technology.
            Recombinant monoclonal antibodies can, for example, be produced by isolating
  5 the DNA encoding the required antibody chains and transfecting a recombinant host cell
    with the coding sequences for expression, using well known recombinant expression
    vectors, e.g. the plasmids of the invention or expression cassette(s) comprising the
    nucleotide sequences encoding the antibody sequences. Recombinant host cells can
    be prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, such as those described above.
  0         According to a specific aspect, the nucleotide sequence may be used for genetic
    manipulation to humanize the antibody or to improve the affinity, or other characteristics
    of the antibody. For example, the constant region may be engineered to more nearly
    resemble human constant regions to avoid immune response, if the antibody is used in
    clinical trials and treatments in humans. It may be desirable to genetically manipulate
  5 the antibody sequence to obtain greater affinity to the target 025b and greater efficacy
    against MDR E. coli. It will be apparent to one of skill in the art that one or more
    polynucleotide changes can be made to the antibody and still maintain its binding ability
    to the target 025b.
            The production of antibody molecules, by various means, is generally well
 !0 understood. US Patent 6331415 (Cabilly et al.), for example, describes a method for the
    recombinant production of antibodies where the heavy and light chains are expressed
    simultaneously from a single vector or from two separate vectors in a single cell.
    Wibbenmeyer et al., (1999, Biochim Biophys Acta 1430(2):191 -202) and Lee and Kwak
    (2003, J. Biotechnology 101 :189-198) describe the production of monoclonal antibodies
25  from separately produced heavy and light chains, using plasmids expressed in separate
    cultures of E. coli. Various other techniques relevant to the production of antibodies are
    provided in, e.g., Harlow, et al., ANTIBODIES: A LABORATORY MANUAL, Cold Spring
    Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., (1988).
            If desired, the antibody of the invention, e.g. the 8D5-1G10 antibody or the 8D10
30  C8 antibody, or the respective binding site or CDR may be sequenced and the
    polynucleotide sequence or a sequence variant or mutant thereof may then be cloned
    into a vector for expression or propagation. The sequence encoding the antibody may
    be maintained in vector in a host cell and the host cell can then be expanded and frozen

                                                  -43
    for future use. Production of recombinant monoclonal antibodies in cell culture can be
    carried out through cloning of antibody genes from B cells by means known in the art.
            In another aspect, the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising a
    sequence that codes for production of the recombinant antibody of the present invention.
  5         In another aspect, the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising a
    sequence that codes for production of the recombinant epitope of the present invention,
    or a molecule comprising such epitope of the present invention. However, the epitope of
    the invention may also be synthetically produced, e.g. through any of the synthesis
    methods well-known in the art.
  0         An antibody or epitope encoding           nucleic acid can     have any suitable
    characteristics and comprise any suitable features or combinations thereof. Thus, for
    example, an antibody or epitope encoding nucleic acid may be in the form of DNA, RNA,
    or a hybrid thereof, and may include non-naturally-occurring bases, a modified
    backbone, e.g., a phosphothioate backbone that promotes stability of the nucleic acid,
  5 or both. The nucleic acid advantageously may be incorporated in an expression
    cassette, vector or plasmid of the invention, comprising features that promote desired
    expression, replication, and/or selection in target host cell(s). Examples of such features
    include an origin of replication component, a selection gene component, a promoter
    component, an enhancer element component, a polyadenylation sequence component,
 !0 a termination component, and the like, numerous suitable examples of which are known.
            The present disclosure further provides the recombinant DNA constructs
    comprising one or more of the nucleotide sequences described herein. These
    recombinant constructs are used in connection with a vector, such as a plasmid,
    phagemid, phage or viral vector, into which a DNA molecule encoding any disclosed
25  antibody is inserted.
            Monoclonal antibodies are produced using any method that produces antibody
    molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. Examples of suitable methods for preparing
    monoclonal antibodies include the hybridoma methods of Kohler et al. (1975, Nature
    256:495-497) and the human B-cell hybridoma method (Kozbor, 1984, J. Immunol.
30  133:3001; and Brodeur et al., Monoclonal Antibody Production Techniques and
    Applications pp 51-63 (Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1987)).
            The invention moreover provides pharmaceutical compositions which comprise
    an antibody or an immunogen as described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier or excipient. These pharmaceutical compositions can be administered in

                                                  -44
    accordance with the present invention as a bolus injection or infusion or by continuous
    infusion. Pharmaceutical carriers suitable for facilitating such means of administration
    are well known in the art.
            Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers generally include any and all suitable
  5 solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and
    absorption delaying agents, and the like that are physiologically compatible with an
    antibody or related composition or combination provided by the invention. Further
    examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include sterile water, saline,
    phosphate buffered saline, dextrose, glycerol, ethanol, and the like, as well as
  O combinations of any thereof.
            In one such aspect, an antibody can be combined with one or more carriers
    appropriate a desired route of administration, antibodies may be, e.g. admixed with any
    of lactose, sucrose, starch, cellulose esters of alkanoic acids, stearic acid, talc,
    magnesium stearate, magnesium oxide, sodium and calcium salts of phosphoric and
  5 sulphuric acids, acacia, gelatin, sodium alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidine, polyvinyl alcohol,
    and optionally further tabletted or encapsulated for conventional administration.
    Alternatively, an antibody may be dissolved in saline, water, polyethylene glycol,
    propylene glycol, carboxymethyl cellulose colloidal solutions, ethanol, corn oil, peanut
    oil, cottonseed oil, sesame oil, tragacanth gum, and/or various buffers. Other carriers,
 !0 adjuvants, and modes of administration are well known in the pharmaceutical arts. A
    carrier may include a controlled release material or time delay material, such as glyceryl
    monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax, or other materials well known
    in the art.
            Additional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are known in the art and
25  described in, e.g. REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES. Liquid formulations
    can be solutions, emulsions or suspensions and can include excipients such as
    suspending agents, solubilizers, surfactants, preservatives, and chelating agents.
            Pharmaceutical   compositions are contemplated         wherein   an antibody or
    immunogen of the present invention and one or more therapeutically active agents are
30  formulated. Stable formulations of the antibody or immunogen of the present invention
    are prepared for storage by mixing said immunoglobulin having the desired degree of
    purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers, in the
    form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. The formulations to be used for in
    vivo administration are specifically sterile, preferably in the form of a sterile aqueous

                                                   -45
    solution. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes or
    other methods. The antibody and other therapeutically active agents disclosed herein
    may also be formulated as immunoliposomes, and/or entrapped in microcapsules.
            Administration of the pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody or
  5 immunogen of the present invention, may be done in a variety of ways, including orally,
    subcutaneously, intravenously, intranasally, intraotically, transdermally, mucosal,
    topically, e.g., gels, salves, lotions, creams, etc., intraperitoneally, intramuscularly,
    intrapulmonary, e.g. employing inhalable technology or pulmonary delivery systems,
    vaginally, parenterally, rectally, or intraocularly.
  0         Examplary formulations as used for parenteral administration include those
    suitable for subcutaneous, intramuscular or intravenous injection as, for example, a
    sterile solution, emulsion or suspension.
            In one embodiment, the antibody or immunogen of the present invention is the
    only therapeutically active agent administered to a subject, e.g. as a disease modifying
  5 or preventing monotherapy.
            Alternatively, the antibody or immunogen of the present invention is administered
    in combination with one or more other therapeutic or prophylactic agents, including but
    not limited to standard treatment, e.g. antibiotics, steroid and non-steroid inhibitors of
    inflammation, and/or other antibody based therapy, e.g. employing anti-bacterial or anti
 !0 inflammatory agents.
            A combination therapy is particularly employing a standard regimen, e.g. as used
    for treating MDR E. coli infection. This may include antibiotics, e.g. tygecycline,
    linezolide, methicillin and/or vancomycin.
            In a combination therapy, the antibody may be administered as a mixture, or
25  concomitantly with one or more other therapeutic regimens, e.g. either before,
    simultaneously or after concomitant therapy.
            Prophylactic administration of immunogens in some cases may employ a vaccine
    comprising the immunogen of the present invention, i.e. a monovalent vaccine. Yet, a
    multivalent vaccine comprising different immunogens to induce an immune response
30  against the same or different target pathogens may be used.
            The biological properties of the antibody, the immunogen or the respective
    pharmaceutical preparations of the invention may be characterized ex vivo in cell, tissue,
    and whole organism experiments. As is known in the art, drugs are often tested in vivo
    in animals, including but not limited to mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, cats, pigs, and monkeys,

                                                   -46
    in order to measure a drug's efficacy for treatment against a disease or disease model,
    or to measure a drug's pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, toxicity, and other
    properties. The animals may be referred to as disease models. Therapeutics are often
    tested in mice, including but not limited to nude mice, SCID mice, xenograft mice, and
  5 transgenic mice (including knockins and knockouts). Such experimentation may provide
    meaningful data for determination of the potential of the antibody to be used as a
    therapeutic or as a prophylactic with the appropriate half-life, effector function, (cross-)
    neutralizing activity and/or immune response upon active or passive immunotherapy.
    Any organism, preferably mammals, may be used for testing. For example because of
  0 their genetic similarity to humans, primates, monkeys can be suitable therapeutic
    models, and thus may be used to test the efficacy, toxicity, pharmacokinetics,
    pharmacodynamics, half-life, or other property of the subject agent or composition. Tests
    in humans are ultimately required for approval as drugs, and thus of course these
    experiments are contemplated. Thus, the antibody, immunogen and respective
  5 pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be tested in humans to
    determine     their therapeutic     or prophylactic     efficacy, toxicity,  immunogenicity,
    pharmacokinetics, and/or other clinical properties.
            The invention also provides the subject antibody of the invention for diagnostic
    purposes, e.g. for use in methods of detecting and quantitatively determining the
 !0 concentration of a bacterial load or antibody as immunoreagent or target in a biological
    fluid sample.
            The invention also provides methods for detecting the degree of sepsis or MDR
    E. coli infection in a biological sample, e.g. the load of a sample with MDR E. coli, such
    as a body fluid, comprising the step of contacting the sample with an antibody of the
25  invention. The antibody of the invention may be employed in any known assay method,
    such    as   competitive    binding   assays,    direct   and    indirect sandwich  assays,
    immunoprecipitation assays and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).
            The preferred diagnostic assay is performed as follows. Target antigen specific
    antibodies are immobilized on latex beads that are incubated with bacteria present in or
30  isolated from body fluids. Positive reaction can be detected by naked eye due to the
    aggregation of the coloured latex beads in the presence of the corresponding cognate
    antigen expressed on the surface of the bacteria.
            A body fluid as used according to the present invention includes biological
    samples of a subject, such as tissue extract, urine, blood, serum, stool and phlegm.

                                                   -47
            In one embodiment the method comprises contacting a solid support with an
    excess of a certain type of antibody fragment which specifically forms a complex with
    the target, under conditions permitting the antibody to attach to the surface of the solid
    support. The resulting solid support to which the antibody is attached is then contacted
  5 with a biological fluid sample so that the target in the biological fluid binds to the antibody
    and forms a target-antibody complex. The complex can be labeled with a detectable
    marker. Alternatively, either the target or the antibody can be labeled before the
    formation the complex. For example, a detectable marker (label) can be conjugated to
    the antibody. The complex then can be detected and quantitatively determined thereby
  0 detecting and quantitatively determining the concentration of the target in the biological
    fluid sample.
            For particular applications the antibody of the invention is conjugated to a label or
    reporter molecule, selected from the group consisting of organic molecules, enzyme
    labels, radioactive labels, colored labels, fluorescent labels, chromogenic labels,
  5 luminescent labels, haptens, digoxigenin, biotin, metal complexes, metals, colloidal gold
    and mixtures thereof. Antibodies conjugated to labels or reporter molecules may be
    used, for instance, in assay systems or diagnostic methods, e.g. to diagnose MDR E.
    coli infection or disease conditions associated therewith.
            The antibody of the invention may be conjugated to other molecules which allow
 !0 the simple detection of said conjugate in, for instance, binding assays (e.g. ELISA) and
    binding studies.
            Another aspect of the present invention provides a kit comprising an antibody,
    which may include, in addition to one or more antibodies, various diagnostic or
    therapeutic agents. A kit may also include instructions for use in a diagnostic or
25  therapeutic method. Such instructions can be, for example, provided on a device
    included in the kit, e.g. tools or a device to prepare a biological sample for diagnostic
    purposes, such as separating a cell and/or protein containing fraction before determining
    the MDR E. coli load to diagnose a disease. Advantageously, such a kit includes an
    antibody and a diagnostic agent or reagent that can be used in one or more of the various
30  diagnostic methods described herein. In another preferred embodiment, the kit includes
    an antibody, e.g. in the lyophilized form, optionally including instructions and a medium
    to reconstitute the lyophilizate, and/or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier(s) that can be mixed before use to form an injectable composition for near term
    administration.

                                                    -48
           The antibodies designated 8D5-1G10 and 8D10-C8, specifically any of the
    antibody light chains and/or heavy chains, is further characterized by the biological
    material deposited at the DSMZ - Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
    Zellkulturen, Mascheroder Weg 1b I Inhoffenstrape 7B, 38124 Braunschweig (DE).
  5        The deposits refer to transformed E. coli cultures, each containing a plasmid
    cloned with an insert of a gene of interest. The genes of interest are the variable domains
    of the heavy and light chains of the mouse monoclonal antibody 8D5-1G10 (IgG3), and
    the heavy and light chains of the mouse monoclonal antibody 8D10-C8 (IgG2b).
            DSM 26763 is an E. coli host cell transformed with a plasmid comprising the
  0 variable domain coding sequence of the 8D5-1G10 light chain (8D5-1G10-LC).
    Escherichia coli 8D5-1G10-VL = DSM 26763, deposition date: January 15th, 2013;
    depositor: Arsanis Biosciences GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
            DSM 26762 is an E. coli host cell transformed with a plasmid comprising the
    variable domain coding sequence of the 8D5-1G10 heavy chain (8D5-1G10-HC).
  5 Escherichia coli 8D5-1G10-VH = DSM 26762, deposition date: January 15th, 2013;
    depositor: Arsanis Biosciences GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
            DSM 28171 is an E. coli host cell transformed with a plasmid comprising the
    variable domain coding sequence of the 8D10-C8 light chain (8D10-C8-LC). Escherichia
    coli 8D10-C8-VL = DSM 28171, deposition date: December                1 1 th 2013; depositor:
 !0 Arsanis Biosciences GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
            DSM 28172 is an E. coli host cell transformed with a plasmid comprising the
    variable domain coding sequence of the 8D10-C8 heavy chain (8D10-C8-HC).
    Escherichia coli 8D10-C8-VH = DSM 28172, deposition date: December                 1 1 th 2013;
    depositor: Arsanis Biosciences GmbH, Vienna, Austria.
25         The subject matter of the following definitions is considered embodiments of the
    present invention:
            1. An isolated antibody that specifically binds to 025b antigen of multi drug
    resistant (MDR) E. coli strains.
           2. Antibody according to definition 1, which is cross-specific to bind the 025b and
30  025 antigens and/or preferentially binds to the 025b antigen relative to an 025a antigen
    of E. coli, preferably with a higher affinity as compared to binding the 025b antigen by a
    polyclonal serum raised against 025 (now known and herein referred to as 025a) E. coli
    strains as determined by immunoassay, compared to polyclonal typing serum raised
    against 025a strains, preferably wherein the antibody has at least equal affinity to both,

                                                    -49
    the 025b and the 025a antigens, as determined by immunoassay, preferably
    immunoblotting, ELISA or other immunological methods.
            3. Antibody according to definition 1 or 2, wherein the 025b antigen is prevalent
    in one or more ST131-025b:H4 strains.
  5         4. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 3, wherein the epitope recognized
    by the antibody is present on the surface of encapsulated and non-encapsulated ST1 31
    025b:H4 strains.
            5. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 4, which has a binding site of a
    full-length monoclonal antibody or an antibody fragment thereof comprising at least one
  0 antibody domain incorporating a binding site, which antibody is preferably an antibody
    selected from the group consisting of murine, lama, rabbit, goat cow, chimeric,
    humanized or human antibodies, heavy-chain antibodies, Fab, Fd, scFv and single
    domain antibodies like VH, VHH or VL, preferably a human IgG1 antibody.
            6. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 5, which has an affinity to bind the
  5 025b antigen with a Kd of less than 10- 7M, preferably less than 10-8M.
            7. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 6, which exhibits in vitro
    bactericidal potency in a serum sample comprising live wild-type MDR E. coli strains,
    and/or which stimulates uptake of live wild-type MDR E. coli strains by phagocytic cells
    in vitro.
 !0         8. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 7, wherein the antibody binds the
    same epitope as the antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8.
            9. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 8, wherein the antibody comprises
    the same binding site as an antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8.
             10. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 9, wherein the antibody is derived
25  from an antibody, which is characterized by a variable region, which is
            - obtainable from a host cell deposited under DSM 26763 and/or DSM 26762, or
    a functionally active variant thereof; or
            - obtainable from a host cell deposited under DSM 28171 and/or DSM 28172, or
    a functionally active variant thereof.
30           11. Antibody according to definition 10, comprising
            A
                 (a) a variable region of the antibody light chain produced by or obtainable from
                     a host cell deposited under DSM 26763; and/or

                                                    -50
                (b) a variable region of the antibody heavy chain produced by or obtainable
                    from a host cell deposited under DSM 26762;
                (c) or a functionally active variant of (a) and/or (b)
            or B
  5             (a) a variable region of the antibody light chain produced by or obtainable from
                    a host cell deposited under DSM 28171; and/or
                (b) a variable region of the antibody heavy chain produced by or obtainable
                    from a host cell deposited under DSM 28172;
                (c) or a functionally active variant of (a) and/or (b).
  0         12. Antibody according to definition 10 or 11, wherein the functionally active
    variant comprises a CDR with an amino acid sequence having at least 60% sequence
    identity.
            13. Antibody according to any of definitions 10 to 12, wherein the functionally
    active variant differs from the parent antibody in at least one point mutation in the amino
  5 acid sequence, preferably in the CDR, wherein the number of point mutations in each of
    the CDR amino acid sequences is either 0, 1, 2 or 3.
            14. A plasmid comprising a nucleotide sequence
            A
            - encoding a variable region of the antibody light chain designated 8D5-1G10-LC
 !0 comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 26763; and/or
            - encoding a variable region of the antibody heavy chain designated 8D5-1G10
    HC comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 26762;
            or B
            - encoding a variable region of the antibody light chain designated 8D10-C8-LC
25  comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 28171; and/or
            - encoding a variable region of the antibody heavy chain designated 8D10-C8-HC
    comprised in a host cell deposited under DSM 28172.
            15. An expression cassette comprising a coding sequence to express a light chain
    and/or heavy chain of an antibody according to any of claims 1 to 13, which expression
30  cassette or coding sequence is derived from a plasmid according to definition 14.
            16. Method of producing an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
    wherein a host cell is transformed with a plasmid of claim 14 or the expression cassette
    according to definition 15.

                                                  -51
           17. A host cell comprising a plasmid according to definition 14 or the expression
    cassette according to definition 15.
           18. The host cell according to definition 17, which is deposited under
           A
  5        - DSM 26763 and/or DSM 26762;
           or B
           - DSM 28171 and/or DSM 28172.
           19. Method of producing an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
    wherein a host cell according to claim 17 or 18 is cultivated or maintained under
  0 conditions to produce said antibody.
           20. A method of identifying a candidate antibody comprising:
           (a) providing a sample containing an antibody or antibody-producing cell; and
           (b) assessing for binding of an antibody in or produced by the sample with an
    epitope recognized by the antibody designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8, wherein a
  5 positive reaction between the antibody and the epitope identifies the antibody as
    candidate antibody.
           21. A method of identifying a candidate antibody comprising:
           (a) providing a sample containing an antibody or antibody-producing cell; and
           (b) assessing for binding of an antibody in or produced by the sample with 025b
 !0 antigen of a ST131-025b:H4 strain and 025a antigen of a non-MDR E. coli strain,
    wherein a specific positive reaction between the antibody and the 025b antigen relative
    to the 025a antigen identifies the antibody as candidate antibody.
           22. A method of producing an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
    comprising
25         (a) providing a candidate antibody identified according to claim 20 or 21; and
           (b) producing a monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
    candidate antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as
    the candidate antibody.
           23. A method of producing an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
30  comprising
           (a) immunizing a non-human animal with an epitope recognized by the antibody
    designated as 8D5-1G10 or 8Dl0-C8;
           (b) forming immortalized cell lines from the isolated B-cells;

                                                    -52
            (c) screening the cell lines obtained in b) to identify a cell line producing a
    monoclonal antibody that binds to the epitope; and
            (d) producing the monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
    antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as the
  5 monoclonal antibody.
            24. A method of producing an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
    comprising
            (a) immunizing a non-human animal with 025b antigen of a ST131-025b:H4
    strain and isolating B-cells producing antibodies;
  0         (b) forming immortalized cell lines from the isolated B-cells;
            (c) screening the cell lines to identify a cell line producing a monoclonal antibody
    that preferentially binds to the 025b antigen relative to the 025a antigen of E. coli; and
            (d) producing the monoclonal antibody, or a humanized or human form of the
    antibody, or a derivative thereof with the same epitope binding specificity as the
  5 monoclonal antibody.
            25. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13, for use in treating a subject
    at risk of or suffering from a MDR E. coli infection comprising administering to the subject
    an effective amount of the antibody to limit the infection in the subject or to ameliorate a
    disease condition resulting from said infection, preferably for treatment or prophylaxis of
 !0 pyelonephritis, secondary bacteremia, sepsis, peritonitis, meningitis, and ventilator
    associated pneumonia.
            26. Antibody for use according to definition 25, for bactericidal killing of MDR E.
    coli, preferably a ST131-025b:H4 strain irrespective of capsular polysaccharide
    expressed by the strain.
25          27. Antibody for use according to definition 25 or 26, wherein the antibody is
    administered in a parenteral or mucosal formulation.
            28. Pharmaceutical preparation of an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to
    13, preferably comprising a parenteral or mucosal formulation, optionally containing a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
30          29. Antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13, for diagnostic use to
    determine E. coli infection in a subject caused by MDR strains expressing the LPS 025b,
    such as with upper and lower urinary tract infections, including cystitis or urethritis,
    ascending or hematogenous pyelonephritis, especially in diabetic patients, as well as
    with bacteremia, sepsis, peritonitis, or intestinal colonization.

                                                    -53
            30. Antibody for use according to definition 29, wherein a systemic infection with
    MDR E. coli in a subject is determined ex vivo by contacting a sample of body fluid of
    said subject with the antibody, wherein a specific immune reaction of the antibody
    determines the infection.
  5         31. Antibody for use according to definition 29 or 30, wherein a sample of body
    fluid is tested for the specific immune reaction, which sample is selected from the group
    consisting of urine, blood, blood isolates or blood culture, aspirate, sputum, lavage fluid
    of intubated subjects and stool.
            32. Antibody for use according to any of definitions 29 to 31, wherein the serotype
  0 of E. coli is determined in vitro from a pure E. coli culture recovered from a clinical
    specimen.
            33. Diagnostic preparation of an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to 13,
    optionally containing the antibody with a label and/or a further diagnostic reagent with a
    label and/or a solid phase to immobilize at least one of the antibody and the diagnostic
  5 reagent.
            34. Isolated epitope recognized by the antibody designated as 8D5-1G1O or
    8D10-C8.
            35. An immunogen comprising:
             (a) an epitope according to definition 34;
 !0          (b) optionally further epitopes not natively associated with said epitope of (a); and
             (c) a carrier.
            36.    Immunogen      according to definition     35, wherein     said carrier is a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, preferably comprising buffer and/or adjuvant
    substances.
25          37. Immunogen according to definition 35 or 36, in a vaccine formulation,
    preferably for parenteral use.
            38. Immunogen according to any of definitions 35 to 37, for use in treating a
    subject by administering an effective amount of said immunogen to protect the subject
    from an MDR E. coli infection, or to prevent a disease condition resulting from said
30  infection.
            39. Immunogen according to definition 38, for eliciting a protective immune
    response.
            40. Isolated nucleic acid encoding an antibody according to any of definitions 1 to
    13 or an epitope according to definition 35.

                                                -54
            The foregoing description will be more fully understood with reference to the
    following examples. Such examples are, however, merely representative of methods of
    practicing one or more embodiments of the present invention and should not be read as
    limiting the scope of invention.
  5
            EXAMPLES
            Example 1: 025b specific antibodies
            We generated a non-encapsulated mutant of a representative ST131-025b:H4
  0 strain 81009 (81009Akps::kan, [Szijarto et al, FEMS Microbiol Lett, 2012, 332:131-6]) by
    replacing the kps cluster (encoding capsular synthesis) with a cassette encoding
    kanamycin resistance. Sublethal doses of live or formaldehyde-inactivated cells of this
    mutant strain were used to immunize mice 4 times at two-week intervals. Subsequently,
    serum samples obtained from the mice were analysed, and the spleen of the mouse
  5 showing the highest IgG titer against 025b antigen (in ELISA, immunoblotting, and
    surface staining) was used for hybridoma generation. Following sub-cloning, several
    hybridoma clones were selected, which secreted antibodies specific to purified 025b
    antigens as well as bound to the surface of live wild-type E. coli strains expressing 025b
    antigens. These mAbs were purified from hybridoma supernatants for further testing.
 !0         As depicted on Fig. 1, all antibodies bound to several different clinical isolates
    determined to be ST131-025b:H4 strains irrespective of the capsular polysaccharide
    expressed (K5, K2, or unknown K types). With respect to binding to strains expressing
    the 025a antigen there were two types of mAbs identified. One group representated by
    mAb 8D5-1G10, did not bind to the surface of 025a strains, while the other group of
25  mAbs represented by 8D10-C8 was cross-reactive to 025a strains. None of the mAbs,
    however, could bind to any E. coli strains expressing unrelated antigens, i.e. 02. (Fig.
    1) or other O-types (not shown).
            The specificity of mAbs was further confirmed by immunoblot analysis using
    purified LPS (Figure 2). The mAbs recognized the LPS molecules from ST131 strains
30  containing the 025b antigen, however were different in their cross-reactive potential to
    025a LPS antigens. While mAb 8D5-1G10 reacted exclusively to 025b antigen, mAb
    8D10-C8 was cross-reactive to 025a. This observed cross-reactivity was compared to
    that exhibited by commercial 025 typing serum (Statens Serum Institut, high titer E. coli
    025 antiserum, #81369) routinely used for the detection of ST131:025b strains). The

                                                  -55
    commercial rabbit serum showed clear preference towards binding to 025a antigens vs.
    025b LPS. In contrast, murine mAb 8D10-C8 reacted to 025b LPS molecules at least
    with the same intensity as to the 025a molecules. Subsequent quantitative analysis
    revealed that the ratio of binding intensity to 025b vs 025a is at least 10-fold higher in
  5 case of mAb 8D10-C8 in comparison to the commercial typing serum.
            The above data together suggest that there are two types of 025b-specific mAbs,
    those, which are highly specific to 025b, and those that recognize an epitope shared by
    025a and 025b antigens. Consequently, our data confirms that the structure of 025b
    indeed differs from that of classical 025 (i.e. 025a) antigen. The novel structure of the
  0 025b subunit was elucidated as described in Example 2.
            The variable domains of the heavy (VH) and light (VL) chains of 025b-specific
    mAbs were amplified from hybridoma clones by using RT-PCR with degenerated heavy
    and light chain primers and sequenced. Sequences were analysed with BLAST for Ig
    database as well as with IMGT/V-QUEST, and CDR regions were defined according to
  5 Kabat nomenclature.
            The variable light and heavy chain sequences of mAb 8D5-1 G1 0 were cloned into
    respective vectors, which were used to transform the E. coli host cells deposited in
    DSMZ under accession numbers: DSM 26763 and DSM 26762.
            The variable light and heavy chain sequences of mAb 8D10-C8 were cloned into
 !0 respective vectors, which were used to transform the E. coli host cells deposited in
    DSMZ under accession numbers: DSM 28171 and DSM 28172.
            Example 2: Structure analysis of 025b antigen
            The LPS of E. coli ST131 was isolated by the hot phenol/water method and
25  purified by dialysis, proteinase K digest and ultracentrifugation. The average yield of LPS
    preparations was 2.61% of dry bacterial mass. LPS was analysed by SDS-PAGE,
    showing fractions consisting of core oligosaccharide (OS) substituted with different
    numbers of oligosaccharide repeating units (RU) as well as unsubstituted core
    oligosaccharides. The 0-specific polysaccharide (0-PS) and different oligosaccharide
30  components were released by mild acidic hydrolysis and isolated by gel filtration on Bio
    Gel P-10. The fractions were analysed by sugar and methylation analyses, NMR
    spectroscopy and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (MS).
            The structure of the O-PS RU was determined with the use of a fraction consisted
    of the core OS substituted with one single RU. Monosaccharide analysis indicated the

                                                 -56
    presence of Rha, Gic, Gal, Hep, and smaller amount of GlcN. Equimolar amounts of
    derivatives of terminal Rhap, terminal Glcp, 3,6-substituted Glcp, 3-substituted Rhap,
    with trace amounts 3-substituted GlcpN were identified and designated to the O-PS RU.
    Remaining partially methylated alditol acetates of 7-substituted Hepp, 6-substituted
  5 Glcp, 2-substituted Glcp, terminal Galp, 3,6-substituted Glcp, and terminal Hepp
    constituted the core oligosaccharide of K-12 type. Derivatives of 3,4-substituted Hepp,
    3,4,7-substituted Hepp, and Kdo could not be detected during standard methylation and
    sugar analysis due to the substitution by P and PPEtn and presence of carboxyl group,
    respectively.
  0         The structure of the RU of the O-specific PS of LPS ST131 was determined with
                                                                                  1H and     C
    the use of NMR spectroscopy. The complete assignment of the O-PS                      13
    resonances was achieved by combining the information obtained from COSY, TOCSY
    and NOESY, as well as HSQC-DEPT, HMBC, and HSQC-TOCSY experiments. The 1H,
    13C   HSQC-DEPT spectrum contained signals for 13 anomeric protons and carbons, and
  5 one Kdo spin system. These signals derived from the core oligosaccharide as well as
    from the one RU of the O-specific PS. The high-field region contained one signal of CH3
    of O-acetyl group, one signal of CH3 of N-acetyl group, as well as two upfield signals of
    CH3     characteristic for  the  6-deoxy    sugars   (Rha). The    spectra indicated     a
    tetradecasaccharide structure of the investigated oligosaccharide. Due to the high
 !0 heterogeneity related to P, PP, and PEtn, the complete spin systems of eight sugars of
    the non-reducing end were completely resolved with emphasis on the RU structure and
    its linkage to the K-12 core OS.
            The inter-residue connectivities between adjacent sugar residues were observed
    by NOESY and HMBC experiments. The HMBC spectra exhibited cross-peaks between
25  the anomeric proton and the carbon at the linkage position and between the anomeric
    carbon and the proton at the linkage position, which confirmed the sequence of sugar
    residues in the non-reducing region of the polysaccharide.
             Based on these measurements, the repeating unit of the 025b-specific PS was
    determined (Fig. 3 (a)), which is a pentasaccharide with -+3)-p-GlcpNAc (residue K) as
30  a residue of RU substituting the first residue of the core OS: -+7)-X-Hepp (residue L).
    Due to a possible contamination of the longer PS fractions, it was impossible to identify
    position of substitution of the first RU by subsequent RU of the O-specific chain.
    Moreover without further detailed structural analyses of those fractions, the presence of

                                                   -57
    GIcNAc in subsequent repeating units as a-anomer (what was previously reported for
    some of E. coli lipopolysachcrides) could be ruled out.
           Molecular weights of the core OS, core OS substituted with one RU, and finally
    the O-PS RU was confirmed with the use of MALDI-TOF MS (data not shown). All
  5 spectra were interpreted on the basis of elucidated herein structure of the RU of LPS
    ST131 and previously identified glycoforms of K-12 core OS (Duda et al. Microbiology.
    2011 Jun;157(Pt 6):1750-60. doi: 10.1099/mic.0.046912-0. Epub 2011 Mar 3; Muller
    Loennies et al. J Biol Chem. 2003 Sep 5;278(36):34090-101. Epub 2003 Jun 20).
    MALDI-MS analysis of low resolution spectra of fraction consisting of core OS
 10 substituted with shorter O-PS showed clusters of ions with following prevailing ions: m/z
    2797.2, m/z 3659.6, m/z 4522.0, and m/z 5383.6 attributed to core OS (with P and
    PPEtn) substituted with 1, 2, 3, and 4 RUs, respectively. Average mass difference
    among these ions was 862.1 Da and matched calculated average mass of the O-specific
    PS RU (861.8 Da, RU-H20).
  5        Taking into consideration the molecular weight of the RU and comparing MS
    results for other fractions, we have shown the presence of longer core OS glycoform
    consisting -+7)-a-Hepp-(1-+6)-a-Glcp disaccharide in the outer core region as a place
    of substitution with the first RU (Fig. 3 (a)). It was shown that LPS ST131 consisted of
    two main core OS glycoforms. The type of glycoform is dependent on the presence or
 !0 absence of the O-specific PS. Prevailing glycoform of the unsubstituted core OS is
    truncated version of K-12 core oligosaccharide, which is devoid of ->7)-a-Hepp-(1-+6)
    a-Glcp disaccharide. Such disaccharide is the difference between O-PS substituted core
    OS and nonsubstituted core OS.
25         Example 3: E.coli 025b specific diagnostic assay
           The 025b-specific mAb 8D5-1G10 was bound to 1 pm diameter latex beads
    (Polysciences) by following instructions of the manufacturer. Latex-coupled beads were
    tested for their potential to agglutinate different E. coli strains. A loopful of bacteria
    (approx. 108 cfu) was mixed with 10 pl of 1% suspension of mAb-coupled latex beads in
30  PBS. As depicted on Fig. 4 E. coli strains expressing 025b antigens showed a strong
    agglutination pattern after gentle agitation for a few seconds. On the contrary, E. coli
    strains expressing 025a or 02 antigens did not agglutinate with the same reagent.
    Therefore, this putative diagnostic reagent is considered to be more specific than the

                                                     -58
    currently used state of the art agglutination reagent (i.e. polyclonal rabbit serum against
    025) used for the detection of 025b (and 025a)- positive E. coli.
           Furthermore, as commercial anti-025 serum is recommended to be used with
    heat killed (i.e. lysed) E. coli cells in agglutination assays, we tested, whether 025b
  5 mAbs - either purified or coupled to latex beads - would have a higher sensitivity, i.e.
    whether they are able to agglutinate live E. coli cells in the presence of intact capsular
    polysaccharides. A large panel of 025b clinical isolates were tested and results with
    some representative strains are presented in Table I. Improvement in sensitivity was
    found in two respects: i) representative strains #1 and #2 were agglutinable with both
  0 free or bead-coupled 025b-specific mAbs in a non-heat killed (i.e. live bacteria directly
    taken from an agar plate) form, while agglutination with the commercial 025 rabbit serum
    required prior heat-lysis of the bacteria, ii) representative strains #3 and #4 were not able
    to be agglutinated with the commercial serum even in a heat killed form, whereas the
    same lysates gave positive result with the purified mAb 8D5-1G1O. Importantly, when
  5 the same antibody was coupled to latex beads, agglutination developed even with native
    bacterial cells. These results indicate a superior sensitivity of the bead-coupled mAbs in
    an agglutination assays, which is corroborated by the fact that all 025b positive E. coli
    strains tested so far gave a positive agglutination with this reagent even without any prior
    treatment (i.e. without producing a heat-killed lysate). Moreover, using this reagent as a
 !0 diagnostic tool for the detection of 025b-expressing bacteria has the advantage over
    PCR based technique that it only gives a positive result with bacteria in fact expressing
    the target antigen. For instance, representative strain #5 in Table I was PCR positive for
    the 025b specific gene routinely used in diagnostics, however, was negative in any
    agglutination assays. This strain has been proven to exhibit a rough LPS phenotype (no
25  O-antigens expressed), therefore, the PCR result could be considered as false positive.
    Avoiding such false positivity is of great importance, when such assays are used as
    companion diagnostics, i.e. to select patients infected with 025b expressing E. coli strain
    that could benefit from 025b specific therapeutic approaches.
           The potential of detecting free 025b LPS molecules by the latex bead-coupled
30  mAbs was also tested. Different amounts of highly purified 025b LPS in the range of 1
    1000 ng were incubated with 10 pl of 1% bead suspension in PBS. As depicted on Fig.
    5, a dose dependent agglutination pattern was seen: the best results were obtained with
    100 ng of free LPS, agglutination was still detectable with 1000 or 10 ng, while was
    undetectable with 1 ng of free 025b LPS.

                                                   -59
            Table I: Comparison of agglutination results obtained with various 025b strains
   using commercial 025 typing serum and 025b specific mAb 8D5-1G10.
     025b       rfbo25b  Agglutination   by Agglutination       by     025b Agglutination      by
     strain     PCR      025 typing serum     mAbs of                         8D5-1G10
                         (commercial)     of Lysates          Live      cells coupled beads of
                         heat-killed          (heat-         (non      heat-  live   (non    heat
                         lysates              killed)        killed)          killed) bacteria
    #1              +              +                 +               +                  +
    #2              +              +                 +               +                  +
    #3              +              -                                 +                  +
    #4              +              -                                 +                  +
    #5              +
 5
            Example 4: Antibacterial effect of 025b specific mAbs
            The potential protective effect of 025b-specific mAbs (with or without cross
   reactivity to 025a) was tested in a lethal murine bacteremia model. Groups of 5 mice
 0 received 100 pg of purified 8D5-1G10 or 8D10-C8, intraperitoneally. 24h later mice were
   challenged intravenously by a lethal dose (previously determined in a pilot experiment)
   of E. coli strain 81009 (2x10 8 CFU/mouse) expressing the 025b antigen. Lethality of
   mice was monitored daily for 3 weeks. Fig. 6 shows combined results of 2 independent
   experiments with similar outcome. While 90% of the mice mock immunized with PBS
15 succumbed to infection, both mAbs tested provided statistically (Logrank test) significant
   increase in survival over the 3-week post-infection period monitored.
            In order to corroborate this in vivo data, bactericidal effect of purified mAbs was
   also tested in vitro. 2 ml of a mid-log culture of E. coli strain 81009 was washed twice in
   PBS and re-suspended to a final concentration of 5x10 5 CFU/ml. 10 pl of this bacterial
20 suspension was pre-incubated for 15 minutes at 40C with 4 pg of the respective mAbs
   diluted in 40 pl RPMI-1 640 buffer supplemented with 3% human albumin. Subsequently,
   50 pl of pooled human serum (previously adsorbed with E. coli strain 81009) was added
   to the reaction and incubated at 370 for 1, 2 and 3 hrs. The final CFU and antibody

                                              -60
  concentrations in the reaction were 5x10  4
                                              CFU/ml and 40 pg/ml respectively in a total
  volume of 100 pl. 10 pl aliquots were plated onto TSB plates for colony counting at the
  specified time points.
         As depicted on Fig. 7, both mAbs tested were able to significantly decrease the
5 CFU over the 3 hours study period. In contrast, the bacteria mixed with an irrelevant
  mAb or no antibodies showed constant growth in this medium. In case complement was
  inactivated in the serum samples (by 30 min. incubation at 56 0C), no bacterial killing
  was observed by any mAbs (data not shown). These results prove that both 025b
  specific mAbs can trigger complement mediated bactericidal effect.
0        Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its
  derivatives is intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning unless
  the context indicates otherwise.

                                                -61
           The claims defining the invention are as follows:
           1. An immunogen comprising the 025b antigen characterized by the 025b
   repeating unit structure
                            @-Glcp
                                1
                                6
    c-Rh ap-(1 -)3)-a-G Icp-(1 -- 3)-a-Rhap2OAc-(1 -- 3)-p-G cpNAc
 5
           and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
           2. The immunogen of claim 1, comprising buffer and/or adjuvant substances.
 0         3. An immunogen of claim 1 or 2 for use in eliciting a protective immune response.
           4. An immunogen for use according to claim 3, wherein a parenteral formulation
   of the immunogen is administered by subcutaneous or intramuscular administration.
 5         5. A vaccine comprising the immunogen of claim 1 or 2, for use in the treatment
   of an MDR E. coli infection in a subject.
           6. The vaccine for use according to claim 5, for the prevention of a disease
   condition resulting from said infection.
20
           7. The vaccine for use according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the treatment is
   combined with a treatment with at least one additional therapeutic or prophylactic agent.
           8. The vaccine for use according to claim 7, wherein the agent is selected from
25 the group consisting of antibiotics, steroid inhibitors of inflammation, non-steroid
   inhibitors of inflammation, and mixtures thereof.
   9. The vaccine for use according to any of claims 5 to 8, which treatment is combined
   with an antibody based therapy.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                                     6/7
                                  Fig. 6
<removed-apn>
                                 100
                                                               p=0.0006
              Percent survival
                                 80
                                                               p=0.001
                                 60                                             8D5-1G10
                                                                                8D10-C8
                                 40
                                                                                PBS
                                 20
                                  0
                                       0   3    6    9    12    15    18   21
                                               Days post challenge

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 Fig. 7
                          7/7

