  ABSTRACT
  Health eyeglasses include a frame front, a pair of lenses mounted at the frame front, and a
5 pair of temples pivotally connected to two opposite sides of the frame front. Each lens
  includes an optical substrate, which is made from a methacrylic polymer material and
  provided therein with an anion material. A front surface of the optical substrate is
  sequentially provided with a layer of UV coating, a layer of blue-light filter, and a layer of
  anti-fog coating. The frame front and the temples are made from a resin material added
0 with an anion material, and thus can produce negative ions, which are beneficial to human
  health, so that the eyeglasses can promote the health of a wearer's eyes in addition to the
  function of optical correction.
  (Fig. 1)
                                                 10

1/3
    C-U-

Our Ref: 80761nno
                                                                       P/00/009
                                                                  Regulation 3.2
                                AUSTRALIA
                               Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Name of Applicant:   K-link Optical Technology (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd.
Invention title:     Health Eyeglasses Capable of Producing Negative Ions
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:
                                       1

             HEALTH EYEGLASSES CAPABLE OF PRODUCING NEGATIVE IONS
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   1.    Field of the Invention
 5   [0001 1 The present invention relates to health eyeglasses capable of producing negative
   ions and, more particularly, to eyeglasses that can protect the eyes of a user, wherein a
   frame front and two temples thereof are capable of producing negative ions, which are
   beneficial to eye health.
 0 2.    Description of the Prior Art
     [ 0002 ] Due to the rapid development of 3C products in recent years, everyone has a 3C
   electronic product and is seriously dependent on these electronic products for their work or
   play. However, these electronic products can emit harmful rays (such as blue light), which is
   visible light with short wavelengths and high energy. It is prone to scattering in
 5 non-homogeneous media to form a blurred image in the eyes. Furthermore, high energy
   light can cause great damages to the eyes, such as retinal maculopathy, cataract, visual
   fatigue, dazzling, decreased vision, and other adverse effectss.The most common way to
   treat the decreased vision of eyes is the use of eyeglasses (such as glasses for myopia or
   presbyopia). General eyeglasses achieve the function of optical correction, but fail to
20 prevent UV light, blue light, and moisture condensation. After a user has worn the
   eyeglasses for a period of time, eye fatigue and discomfort may result.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
     [ 0003 1One object of the present invention is to provide health eyeglasses to solve the
                                                   2

   shortcomings of conventional eyeglasses.
     [0004 ] According to one embodiment of the present invention, the health eyeglasses
   generally comprises a frame front, a pair of lenses mounted at the frame front, and a pair of
   temples pivotally connected to two opposite sides of the frame front. Each lens includes an
 5 optical substrate, which is made from a methacrylic polymer material and provided therein
   with an anion material. A front surface of the optical substrate is sequentially provided with a
   layer of UV coating, a layer of blue-light filter, and a layer of anti-fog coating. The frame front
   and the temples can be made from a resin material added with an anion material.
     [0005  l According to another embodiment of the present invention, the health eyeglasses
 0 generally comprises a frame front, a pair of lenses mounted at the frame front, and a pair of
   temples pivotally connected to two opposite sides of the frame front. Each lens includes an
   optical substrate, which is made from a methacrylic polymer material. A front surface of the
   optical substrate is firstly coated with a layer of anion material and then sequentially
   provided with a layer of UV coating, a layer of blue-light filter, and a layer of anti-fog coating.
 5 The frame front and the temples can be made from a resin material added with an anion
   material.
     [ 0006 ] According to one aspect of the present invention, a method for adding an anion
   material to a frame front or temples may includes the steps of: grinding anion powder to
   become superfine, nanometer anion powder; adding the nanometer anion powder to an
20 amount of resin material and blending the resin material and the nanometer anion powder
   evenly to obtain a mixture; putting the mixture in an oven and adding a separating agent for
   the mixture and heating the mixture until a fully melted state is reached; putting the melted
   mixture in a cooling molding apparatus, so that a frame front or temples, containing an
   anion material, can be formed.
                                                       3

     [0007 ] One advantage of th present invention is that the filtering effect of the eyeglasses
   on UV light and blue light can reach more than 60%. Therefore, the eyeglasses can protect
   the eyes from damages caused by UV light and blue light, and can reduce discomfort of
   eyes, such as stabbing pain, dryness and fatigue, reduce the occurrence of cataract and
 5 retinal maculopathy. Besides, the frame front, the temples, and the lenses of the
   eyeglasses can produce negative ions to promote blood circulation and metabolism, relieve
   eye fatigue, and increase oxygen supply around the eyes, so that eye diseases can be
   prevented and thus the health of eyes can be achieved.
     [0008 ] Other objects, advantages, and novel features of the present invention will become
 0 more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the
   accompanying drawings.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIG. 1 shows a 3-dimensional view of eyeglasses according one embodiment of the
 5 present invention.
   FIG. 2 shows a sectional view of a lens of one embodiment used in the eyeglasses.
   FIG. 3 shows a second view of a lens of another embodiment used in the eyeglasses.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
20   [0009 ] To understand the objects and technical means of the present invention, preferred
   embodiments are illustrated in the following paragraphs with reference to the accompanying
   drawings.
     [0010] Referring to FIGS. 1, 2 and 3, a pair of health eyeglasses, indicated by reference
   numeral 1, according to one embodiment of the present invention is shown, which generally
                                                  4

   comprises a frame front 10, a pair of lenses 11 mounted at the frame front 10, and a pair of
   temples 12 pivotally connected to two opposite sides of the frame front 10. Each lens 11
   includes an optical substrate 110, which can be made from a methacrylic polymer material
   and is provided therein with an anion material. A front surface (i.e. outer surface) of the
 5 optical substrate 110 is sequentially provided with a layer of UV coating 111, a layer of
   blue-light filter 112, and a layer of anti-fog coating 113. In another embodiment, as shown in
   FIG. 3, the front surface of an optical substrate 110 is firstly coated with a layer of anion
   material 115, and then a layer of UV (ultraviolet) coating 111, a layer of blue-light filter 112,
   and a layer of anti-fog coating 113 are sequentially added to the optical substrate 110. As
 0 an example, the blue-light filter 112 may be composed of a first SiO2 film (silicon oxide), a
   ZrO2 film (zirconium (iii) dioxide), an In203 film (indium (iii) oxide), Ti2O3 film (titanium (iii)
   oxide), and a second SiO2 film (silicon oxide), which can be sequentially added to a lens by
   vacuum evaporation or sputter deposition. The thickness of each film can be controlled by
   parameters such as deposition time, evaporation temperature, and electrical power.
 5 Furthermore, a rear surface (i.e. inner surface) of the optical substrate 110 and an outer
   surface of the anti-fog coating layer 113 can be each provided with a layer of anti-reflective
   coating 114. The frame front 10 and the temples 12 can be made from a resin material
   added with an anion material, such as nanometer anion powder of tourmaline.
     [ 0011 ] A method for adding an anion material to a frame front or temples may include the
20 steps of: grinding anion powder (i.e. negative ion powder) to become superfine, nanometer
   anion powder; adding the nanometer anion powder to an amount of resin material and
   blending the resin material and the nanometer anion powder evenly to obtain a mixture;
   putting the mixture in an oven and adding a separating agent for the mixture and heating
   the mixture until a fully melted state is reached; putting the melted mixture in a cooling
                                                       5

   molding device, so that a frame front or temples, containing an anion material, can be
   formed.
     [0012 ] The anion powder used in the present invention may contain:
   A1203 35.10%, SiO2 34.81%, B203 11.02%, MgO 4.70, Fe203 10.18%, Na2O 0.91%,
 5 K20 0.04%, CaO small quantity, P205 0.22%, TiO2 0.26%, FeO 1.35 %, and other trace
   elements.
     L0013 ] The composition of the anion powder is isomorphous cyclosilicates of aluminum,
   sodium, iron, germanium or lithium, which is characterized by boron. The thermoelectricity
   and piezoelectricity allow polar ions to vibrate, thus causing dipole moment and producing
 0 electromagnetic radiation in the far-infrared wavelength band. If the anion powder is added
   to a product (such as fibers) in a certain proportion, the far-infrared radiation can pass free
   ions, impurity ions and ionic substances. Therefore, impurities and two or three phonons
   may resonate to produce radiation. Polar vibration of ionic bonds involved in a linkage
   between organic and inorganic molecules may cause a strong broadband radiation.
 5 According to a test, the emissivity of the far-infrared rays from the anion powder is over
   90%.
     [ 0014 ] The effect of far-infrared radiation of anion powder on the health of human body
   and other effects are listed in the following:
   1. Far-infrared rays can accelerate the movement of water molecules, and can convert
20 normal water into active water, so that the penetration, diffusion capacity, solubility, and
   metabolic power of water can be enhanced, and water protective films can be produced.
   2. Far-infrared rays can expand the capillaries, enhance blood circulation, promote
   metabolism, and enhance lymphatic circulation for the circulatory system.
   3. Far-infrared rays can activate cells, facilitate removing old dead cells or regenerating cells,
                                                       6

   increase cell energy, and increase the function and vitality of cells.
     [0015 ] The frame 10 and the temple 12 of the present invention contain a lot of tourmaline
   powder in addition to the polymer anion material. The tourmaline powder can be obtained
   by removing the impurities from the tourmaline ore and mechanically crushing the
 5 tourmaline ore into powder. The powder has a higher amount of negative ions and a higher
   emissivity    of   far-infrared   radiation. The    chemical     formula   of   tourmaline     is
   NaR3A16Si6O18BO33(OH,F)4, which is a general name for cyclosilicates, a family of
   trigonal system, wherein R represents a metal cation; when R is Fe2+, a black crystal
   tourmaline can be formed; the far-infrared rays emitted by the tourmaline powder can
 0 activate the activity of biomolecules, causing the molecules of an organism to be in a
   relatively high vibration state, promoting and improving blood circulation, enhancing
   metabolism, improving immune function, reducing inflammation and swelling, adjusting
   autonomic nervous system balance, reducing blood pressure, sterilizing, eliminating
   garbage and harmful substances in blood, increasing red blood cell count, improving
 5 allergies, and enhancing immunity.
     [ 0016 ] With the UV coating layer 111, the blue-light filter layer 112, and the anti-fog
   coating layer 113, each lens 11 of the present invention can effectively reduce the damages
   of blue-light emitting from either an electronic product or an LED light. The filtering effect of
   each lens 11 of the present invention on ultraviolet light and blue light can reach more than
20 60%. Since the frame front 10, the lenses 11, and the temples 12 can produce negative
   ions (i.e. anions), blood circulation and metabolism around the eyes can be enhanced, and
   the oxygen supplied to the surrounding of the eyes can be increased; therefore, eye
   diseases can be prevented and eye fatigue can be relieved. The frame front 10 and the
   temples 12 can produce negative ions, which are 100 times than an ordinary frame and
                                                    7

  temples. Due to the frame front 10, the temples 12, and lenses 11 containing anion powder,
  the eyeglasses 1 can produce a significant amount of negative oxygen ions, which are
  beneficial to human health. Thus, in addition to the function of optical correction, the
  eyeglasses 1 can promote the health of a wearer's eyes.
5   0017.] While we have shown and described the embodiments in accordance with the
  present invention, it should be clear to those skilled in the art that further embodiments may
  be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.
                                                  8

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1. Health eyeglasses capable of producing negative ions, comprising a frame front (10), a
 5 pair of lenses (11) mounted at the frame front (10), and a pair of temples (12) pivotally
   connected to two opposite sides of the frame front (10), each lens (11) including an optical
   substrate (110) made from a methacrylic polymer material and provided therein with an
   anion material, a front surface of the optical substrate (110) being sequentially provided with
   a layer of UV coating (111), a layer of blue-light filter (112), and a layer of anti-fog coating
 0 (113), the frame front (10) and the temples (12) being made from a resin material added
   with an anion material.
   2. Health eyeglasses capable of producing negative ions, comprising a frame front (10), a
   pair of lenses (11) mounted at the frame front (10), and a pair of temples (12) pivotally
   connected to two opposite sides of the frame front (10), each lens (11) including an optical
 5 substrate (110) made from a methacrylic polymer material, a front surface of the optical
   substrate (110) being firstly coated with a layer of anion material (115) and then being
   sequentially provided with a layer of UV coating (111), a layer of blue-light filter (112), and a
   layer of anti-fog coating (113), the frame front (10) and the temples (12) being made from a
   resin material added with an anion material.
20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/3

