         CARTRIDGE, PROCESS CARTRIDGE AND ELECTRO PHOTOGRAPHIC IMAGE
                                       FORMING APPARATUS
                                                   ABSTRACT
        A process cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of an electrophotographic image
fanning apparatus, includes a rotatable photosensitive drum; a rotatable developing roller configured
to develop image formed on the drum, the developing roller being capable of contacting to and
spacing from the drum; an urging force receiving portion configured to receive, from a main assembly
side urging member, an urging force for spacing the developing roller from the drum; a cartridge side
drive transmission member capable of the coupling with a main assembly side drive transmission
member and configured to receive, from the main assembly side drive transmission member, a
rotational force for rotating the developing roller; and a decoupling member capable of urging the
cartridge side drive transmission member by the urging force received by the urging force receiving
portion to decouple the cartridge side drive transmission member from the main assembly side drive
transmission member.
16181141_1

                                                     1
                                          DESCRIPTION
 [TITLE OF THE INVENTION] CARTRIDGE, PROCESS CARTRIDGE AND ELECTRO
                      PHOTOGRAPHIC IMAGE FORMING APPARATUS
REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014358122, a National Phase Entry of the International Patent Application No.
PCT/JP2014/082768, filed 4 December 2014.         International Patent Application No.
PCT/JP2014/082768 claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2013-253522, filed 6
December 2013.       Australian Patent Application No. 2014358122 is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
[FIELD OF THE INVENTION]
[0001a]     The present invention relates to an electrophotographic image forming apparatus
(image forming apparatus) and a cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of the
image forming apparatus.
[0002]     Here, the image forming apparatus forms an image on a recording material using an
electrophotographic image forming process.       Examples of the image forming apparatus include
an electrophotographic copying machine, an electrophotographic printer (laser beam printer,
LED or printer, for example), a facsimile machine, a word processor and so on.
[0003]     The cartridge comprises an electrophotographic photosensitive drum (drum or
photosensitive drum) as an image bearing member, and at least one of process means actable on
the drum (a developer carrying member (developing roller)), which are unified into a cartridge
which is detachably mountable to the image forming apparatus.        The cartridge may comprise
the drum and the developing roller as a unit, or may comprises the drum, or may comprises the
developing roller.    A cartridge which comprises the drum is a drum cartridge, and the cartridge
which comprises the developing roller is a developing cartridge.

                                                     2
[0004]     The main assembly of the image forming apparatus is portions of the image forming
apparatus other than the cartridge.
[BACKGROUND ART]
[0005]     In a conventional image forming apparatus, a drum and process means actable on the
drum are unified into a cartridge which is detachably mountable to a main assembly of the
apparatus (process cartridge type).
[0006]     With such a process cartridge type, maintenance operations for the image forming
apparatus can be performed in effect by the user without relying on a service person, and
therefore, the operationality can be remarkably improved.       Therefore, the process cartridge type
is widely used in the field of the image forming apparatus.
[0007]     A process cartridge (Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 2001-337511), for
example) and an image forming apparatus (Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 2003-208024,
for example) have been proposed, in which a clutch is provided to effect switching to drive the
developing roller during an image forming operation and to shut off the drive of the developing
roller during a non-image-formation.
[SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION]
[0008]     In Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 2001-337511, a spring clutch is provided at
an end portion of the developing roller to switch the drive.
[0009]     In addition, in Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 2003-208024, a clutch is
provided in the image forming apparatus to switch the drive for the developing roller.
[0010]     It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
at least one disadvantage of present arrangements.      Some embodiments of the present
disclosure improve the clutch for switching the drive for the developing roller.
[0010a]      One aspect of the present disclosure provides a process cartridge for

                                                  2a
electrophotographic image formation, said process cartridge comprising: (i) a rotatable
photosensitive member; (ii) a rotatable developing roller configured to develop a latent image
formed on said photosensitive member, said developing roller being capable of contacting to and
spacing from said photosensitive member; (iii) an urging force receiving portion configured to
receive an urging force for spacing said developing roller from said photosensitive member; (iv)
a drive input member configured to receive a rotational force for rotating said developing roller
from an outside of said process cartridge; and (v) an urging member capable of moving said
drive input member inwardly of said process cartridge in response to reception of the urging
force by said urging force receiving portion.
[0010b]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a process cartridge detachably
mountable to a main assembly of an electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said process
cartridge comprising: a photosensitive member; a photosensitive member frame rotatably
supporting said photosensitive member; a developing roller configured to develop a latent image
formed on said photosensitive member; a developing device frame rotatably supporting said
developing roller, said developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member
frame such that said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member
frame between a contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive
member and a spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from said
photosensitive member; a cartridge side drive transmission member capable of coupling with a
main assembly side drive transmission member provided in said main assembly and configured
to receive, from the main assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for
rotating said developing roller, said cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable
about a rotation axis about which said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said
photosensitive member frame; and a releasing mechanism for releasing said cartridge side drive
transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission member, with rotation of
said developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
[0010c]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a process cartridge for
electrophotographic image formation, said process cartridge comprising: (i) a rotatable
photosensitive member; (ii) a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting said
photosensitive member; (iii) a developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on
said photosensitive member; (iv) a developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing
roller, said developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame such

                                                   2b
that said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame
between a contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive
member and a spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from said
photosensitive member; (v) a drive input member for receiving a rotational force for rotating said
developing roller from an outside of said process cartridge, said drive input member being
rotatable about a rotation axis about with said developing device frame rotates relative to said
photosensitive member frame; and (vi) an urging mechanism capable of moving said drive input
member inwardly of said process cartridge with the rotation of said developing device frame
from the contacting position to the spacing position.
[0010d]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides an electrophotographic image
forming apparatus for forming a image on a recording material, said apparatus comprising: (i) a
main assembly of the electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said main assembly
including a main assembly side drive transmission member for transmitting a rotational force;
(ii) a process cartridge detachably mountable to said main assembly, said process cartridge
including, (ii-i) a photosensitive member, (ii-ii) a photosensitive member frame rotatably
supporting said photosensitive member, (ii-iii) a developing roller configured to develop a latent
image formed on said photosensitive member, (ii-iv) a developing device frame rotatably
supporting said developing roller, said developing device frame is connected with said
photosensitive member frame such that said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said
photosensitive member frame between a contacting position in which said developing roller
contacts said photosensitive member and a spacing position in which said developing roller is
spaced from said photosensitive member, (ii-v) a cartridge side drive transmission member
capable of coupling with the main assembly side drive transmission member and configured to
receive, from the main assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating
said developing roller, said cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable about a
rotation axis about which said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive
member frame, and (ii-vi) a releasing mechanism for releasing said cartridge side drive
transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission member, with rotation of
said developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
[0010e]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a cartridge detachably mountable
to a main assembly of the electrophotographic image forming apparatus, the main assembly
including a main assembly side drive transmission member and a main assembly side urging

                                                  2c
member, said cartridge comprising: (i) rotatable developing roller; (ii) a cartridge side drive
transmission member capable of the coupling with the main assembly side drive transmission
member and configured to receive, from the main assembly side drive transmission member, a
rotational force for rotating said developing roller; (iii) an urging force receiving portion
configured to receive an urging force from the main assembly side urging member; and (iv) a
decoupling member capable of decoupling said cartridge side drive transmission member from
the main assembly side drive transmission member in response to reception of the urging force
by said urging force receiving portion, wherein when said cartridge is seen along a rotational axis
of said developing roller, said developing roller is disposed between said cartridge side drive
transmission member and said urging force receiving portion.
[0010f]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a cartridge for electrophotographic
image formation, said cartridge comprising: (i) rotatable developing roller; (ii) a drive input
member for receiving a rotational force for rotating said developing roller from an outside said
cartridge; (iii) an urging force receiving portion capable of receiving an urging force; and (iv) an
urging member capable of moving said drive input member inwardly of said cartridge in
reception of the urging force by said urging force receiving portion, wherein when said cartridge
is seen along a rotational axis of said developing roller, said developing roller is disposed
between said drive input member and said urging force receiving portion.
[0011]     According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process cartridge
detachably mountable to a main assembly of an
The next page is page 3

                                                3
   electrophotographic image forming apparatus, the main assembly including a
   main assembly side drive transmission member and a main assembly side urging
   member, said process cartridge comprising (i) a rotatable photosensitive member;
   (ii) a rotatable developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on
 5 said photosensitive member, said developing roller being capable of contacting to
   and spacing from said photosensitive member; (iii) an urging force receiving
   portion configured to receive, from the main assembly side urging member, an
   urging force for spacing said developing roller from said photosensitive member;
   (iv) a cartridge side drive transmission member capable of the coupling with the
1o main assembly side drive transmission member and configured to receive, from
   the main assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating
   said developing roller; and (v) a decoupling member capable of urging said
   cartridge side drive transmission member by the urging force received by said
   urging force receiving portion to decouple said cartridge side drive transmission
15 member from the main assembly side drive transmission member.
   [00121      According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a process cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said process
   cartridge comprising (i) a rotatable photosensitive member; (ii) a rotatable
   developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
20 photosensitive member, said developing roller being capable of contacting to and
   spacing from said photosensitive member; (iii) an urging force receiving portion
   configured to receive an urging force for spacing said developing roller from said
   photosensitive member; (iv) a drive input member configured to receive a
   rotational force for rotating said developing roller; and (v) an urging member
25 capable of moving said drive input member inwardly of said cartridge by the
   urging force received by said urging force receiving portion.
   [00131      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided

                                                 4
   an    electrophotographic image forming apparatus capable of image formation on
   a recording material, said apparatus comprising (i) a main assembly of the
   electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said main assembly including a
   main assembly side urging member and a main assembly side drive transmission
 5 member; and (ii) a process cartridge detachably mountable to said main assembly,
   said process cartridge including (ii-i) a rotatable photosensitive member, (ii-ii) a
   rotatable developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
   photosensitive member, said developing roller being capable of contacting to and
   spacing from said photosensitive member, (ii-iii) an urging force receiving
1o portion configured to receive, from said main assembly side urging member, an
   urging force for spacing said developing roller from said photosensitive member,
   (ii-iv) a cartridge side drive transmission member, capable of the coupling with
   said main assembly side drive transmission member, for receiving, from said
   main assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating
15 said developing roller, and (ii-v) a decoupling member capable of urging said
   cartridge side drive transmission member by the urging force received by said
   urging force receiving portion to decouple said cartridge side drive transmission
   member from the main assembly side drive transmission member.
   [0014]      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided
20 a process cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of an
   electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said process cartridge comprising
   a photosensitive member; a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting
   said photosensitive member; a developing roller configured to develop a latent
   image formed on said photosensitive member; a developing device frame
25 rotatably supporting said developing roller, said developing device frame is
   connected with said photosensitive member frame such that said developing
   device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame between a

                                                5
   contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive
   member and a spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from
   said photosensitive member; a cartridge side drive transmission member capable
   of coupling with a main assembly side drive transmission member provided in
 5 said main assembly and configured to receive, from the main assembly side drive
   transmission member, a rotational force for rotating said developing roller, said
   cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable about a rotation axis
   about which said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said
   photosensitive member frame; a releasing mechanism for releasing said cartridge
1o side drive transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission
   member, with rotation of said developing device frame from the contacting
   position to the spacing position.
   [0015]      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a process cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said process
15 cartridge comprising (i) a rotatable photosensitive member; (ii) a photosensitive
   member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive member; (iii) a
   developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
   photosensitive member; (iv) a developing device frame rotatably supporting said
   developing roller, said developing device frame is connected with said
20 photosensitive member frame such that said developing device frame is rotatable
   relative to said photosensitive member frame between a contacting position in
   which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive member and a spacing
   position in which said developing roller is spaced from said photosensitive
   member; (v) a drive input member for receiving a rotational force for rotating
25 said developing roller, said drive input member being rotatable about a rotation
   axis about with said developing device frame rotates relative to said
   photosensitive member frame; and (vi) an urging mechanism capable of moving

                                                 6
   said drive input member inwardly of said cartridge with the rotation of said
   developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
   10016]      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   an electrophotographic image forming apparatus for forming a image on a
 5 recording material, said apparatus comprising (i) a main assembly of the
   electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said main assembly including a
   main assembly side drive transmission member for transmitting a rotational force;
   (ii) a process cartridge detachably mountable to said main assembly, said process
   cartridge including, (ii-i) a photosensitive member, (ii-ii) a photosensitive
10 member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive member, (ii-iii), (ii-iv) a
   developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing roller, said
   developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame
   such that said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive
   member frame between a contacting position in which said developing roller
15 contacts said photosensitive member and a spacing position in which said
   developing roller is spaced from said photosensitive member, (ii-v) a cartridge
   side drive transmission member capable of coupling with the main assembly side
   drive transmission member and configured to receive, from the main assembly
   side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating said developing
20 roller, said cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable about a
   rotation axis about which said developing device frame is rotatable relative to
   said photosensitive member frame, and (ii-vi) a releasing mechanism for
   releasing said cartridge side drive transmission member from the main assembly
   side drive transmission member, with rotation of said developing device frame
25 from the contacting position to the spacing position.
   100171      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of the electrophotographic

                                                 7
   image forming apparatus, the main assembly including a main assembly side
   drive transmission member and a main assembly side urging member, said
   cartridge comprising (i) rotatable developing roller; (ii) a cartridge side drive
   transmission member capable of the coupling with the main assembly side drive
 5 transmission member and configured to receive, from the main assembly side
   drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating said developing roller;
   (iii) an urging force receiving portion configured to receive an urging force from
   the main assembly side urging member; (v) a decoupling member capable of
   urging said cartridge side drive transmission member by the urging force received
10 by said urging force receiving portion to decouple said cartridge side drive
   transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission member,
   wherein when said cartridge is seen along a rotational axis of said developing
   roller, said developing roller is disposed between said cartridge side drive
   transmission member and said urging force receiving portion.
15 [0018]      According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said cartridge comprising (i)
   rotatable developing roller; (ii) a drive input member for receiving a rotational
   force for rotating said developing roller; (iii) an urging force receiving portion
   capable of receiving an urging force; (iv) an urging member capable of moving
20 said drive input member inwardly of said cartridge by the urging force received
   by said urging force receiving portion, wherein when said cartridge it is seen
   along a rotational axis of said developing roller, said developing roller is disposed
   between said drive input member and said urging force receiving portion.
25 [BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS]
   [00191      Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting portion
   and elements therearound of a process cartridge according to a first embodiment

                                                  8
   of the present invention, as seen from a driving side.
   (00201      Figure 2 is a sectional view of an image forming apparatus according
   to the first embodiment.
   [00211      Figure 3 is a perspective view of the image forming apparatus
 5 according to the first embodiment.
   [00221      Figure 4 is a sectional view of the process cartridge according to the
   first embodiment.
   [0023]      Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
   according to the first embodiment.
10 [0024]      Figure 6 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
   according to the first embodiment, as seen from a non-driving side.
   [00251      Figure 7 is a side view of the process cartridge according to the first
   embodiment, in which (a) illustrates a contact state between a drum and a
   developing roller, (b) illustrates a state in which the urging force receiving
15 portion has moved by a distance 61, and (c) illustrates a state in which the urging
   force receiving portion has moved by a distance 82.
   [0026]      Figure 8 is an exploded perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion and the elements therearound of the process cartridge according to the
   first embodiment, as seen from a non-driving side.
20 [00271      Figure 9 is a schematic sectional view of elements in the neighborhood
   of a cartridge side drive transmission member according to the first embodiment,
   in which (a) illustrates a drive transmission state, and (b) illustrates a drive
   disconnection state.
   [0028]      Figure 10 is a schematic exploded view of a release cam and a
25 developing device covering member according to the first embodiment.
   [0029]      Figure 11 is a schematic exploded view of the release cam, the
   developing device covering member and a driving side cartridge cover member

                                                9
   according to the first embodiment.
   [0030]     In Figure 12, (a) is a schematic sectional view of cartridge side drive
   transmission member according to the first embodiment, and (b) as a sectional
   view in which the cartridge side drive transmission member has moved in the
 5 direction indicated by N.
   [0031]     Figure 13 is a schematic view of a neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the first embodiment in a drum-roller
   contact-and-drive-transmission state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
10 portion.
   [0032]     Figure 14 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the first embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, image (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
15 portion.
   [0033]     Figure 15 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the first embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view
   of the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive
20 connecting portion.
   [00341     Figure 16 is a schematic view illustrating a positional relation between
   the release cam, the driving side cartridge cover member and a guide of the
   developing device covering member according to the first embodiment.
   [00351     Figure 17 is a block diagram of an example of a gear arrangement of
25 the image forming apparatus.
   [00361     Figure 18 is an exploded perspective view of a neighborhood of a drive
   connecting portion of a process cartridge according to a second embodiment of

                                               10
   the present invention, as seen from a driving side.
   (0037]      Figure 19 is an exploded perspective view of the neighborhood of the
   drive connecting portion of the process cartridge according to the second
   embodiment as seen from a non-driving side.
 5 [00381      Figure 20 as a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to the second embodiment, in
   which (a) Illustrates a drive transmission state, and (b) illustrates a drive
   disconnection state.
    [00391     Figure 21 is a schematic view of a neighborhood of the cartridge side
1o drive transmission member according to the second embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
    [00401     Figure 22 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
15 drive transmission member according to the second embodiment in a drum-roller
    spaced-and-drive-transmission state, image (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
    [00411     Figure 23 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
20  drive transmission member according to the second embodiment in a drum-roller
    spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view
    of the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive
    connecting portion.
    [00421     Figure 24 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting
25  portion of a process cartridge according to a third embodiment, as seen from a
    driving side.
    [00431     Figure 25 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting

                                              11
   portion of a process cartridge according to the third embodiment, as seen from a
   non-driving side.
   [00441     Figure 26 is an exploded view (a), perspective view (b) of an idler gear
   and a cartridge side drive transmission member, according to the third
 5 embodiment.
   100451     Figure 27 is a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to the third embodiment, in
   which (a) illustrates a drive transmission state, and (b) illustrates a drive
   disconnection state.
10 [00461     Figure 28 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting
   portion of a process cartridge according to a fourth embodiment, as seen from a
   driving side.
   [00471     Figure 29 exploded perspective view of the neighborhood of the drive
   connecting portion of the process cartridge according to the fourth embodiment,
15 as seen from a non-driving side.
   [00481     Figure 30 is a perspective view of a release cam and a developing
   device covering member according to the fourth embodiment.
   [00491     Figure 31 is a perspective view of a cartridge side drive transmission
   member, a releasing member, peripheral parts and a driving side cartridge cover
20 member, according to the fourth embodiment.
   [00501     Figure 32 is a perspective view of a release cam and a developing
   device covering member according to the fourth embodiment.
   [0051]     Figure 33 is a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to the fourth embodiment, in
25 which (a) shows a drive transmission state, and (b) shows a drive disconnection
   state.
   [00521     Figure 34 is a schematic view of a neighborhood of the cartridge side

                                                 12
   drive transmission member according to the fourth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
 5  [00531      Figure 35 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the fourth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, image (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
10  [00541      Figure 36 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the fourth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view
   of the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive
   connecting portion.
is  [0055]      Figure 37 illustrates a process cartridge according to a fourth
   embodiment, in which (a) is an exploded perspective view schematically
    illustrating a force functioned to developing unit 9, and (b) is a schematic side
   view as seen from a driving side along a rotation axis X.
    [0056]      Figure 38 illustrates a developing cartridge D according to the fourth
20  embodiment.
    [0057]      Figure 39 illustrates a developing cartridge according to the fourth
    embodiment, in which (a) is an exploded perspective view of a neighborhood of a
    drive connecting portion, and (b) is a schematic side view as seen from a driving
    side along a rotation axis X direction.
25  [00581      Figure 40 is an exploded perspective view of a neighborhood of a drive
    connecting portion of a process cartridge according to a fifth embodiment.
    100591      Figure 41 is an exploded perspective view of a neighborhood of a drive

                                               13
   connecting portion of a process cartridge according to a fifth embodiment.
   [00601      Figure 42 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
   according to the fifth embodiment as seen from a driving side.
   [0061]      Figure 43 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
 5 according to the fifth embodiment as seen from a non-driving side.
   [00621      Figure 44 is a perspective view of a release cam and a driving side
   cartridge cover member according to the fifth embodiment.
   [00631      Figure 45 is a schematic view of a drive connecting portion, a driving
   side cartridge cover member and a bearing member.
10 [00641      Figure 46 is a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of a
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to the fifth embodiment, in
   which (a) shows a drive transmission state, and (b) shows a drive disconnection
   state.
   100651      Figure 47 is a schematic view of a neighborhood of the cartridge side
15 drive transmission member according to the fifth embodiment in a drum-roller
   contact-and-drive-transmission state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
   [0066]     Figure 48 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
20 drive transmission member according to the fifth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, image (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
   [00671     Figure 49 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
25 drive transmission member according to the fifth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view
   of the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive

                                               14
   connecting portion.
   [00681     Figure 50 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting
   portion of a process cartridge according to a sixth embodiment, as seen from a
   driving side.
 5 (00691     Figure 51 is an exploded perspective view of a drive connecting
   portion of a process cartridge according to the sixth embodiment, as seen from a
   non-driving side.
   [00701     Figure 52 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
   according to the sixth embodiment as seen from a driving side.
10 [00711     Figure 53 is an exploded perspective view of the process cartridge
   according to the sixth embodiment as seen from a non-driving side.
   [00721     Figure 54 is a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of a
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to a sixth embodiment, in
   which (a) illustrates a drive transmission state, and (b) illustrates a drive
15 disconnection state.
   [00731     Figure 55 is a perspective view of a release cam and the release lever
   according to the sixth embodiment.
   [00741     Figure 56 is a perspective view of a cartridge side drive transmission
   member, a releasing member, peripheral parts and a driving side cartridge cover
20 member.
   [0075]     Figure 57 is a schematic view of a neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the sixth embodiment in a drum-roller
   contact-and-drive-transmission state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
25 portion.
   [00761     Figure 58 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
   drive transmission member according to the sixth embodiment in a drum-roller-

                                                15
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state, image (a) is a schematic sectional view of
   the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.
   [0077]      Figure 59 is a schematic view of the neighborhood of the cartridge side
 5 drive transmission member according to the sixth embodiment in a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, in which (a) is a schematic sectional view
   of the drive connecting portion, and (b) is a perspective view of the drive
   connecting portion.
   [00781      Figure 60 illustrates the process cartridge according to the sixth
10 embodiment, in which (a) is an exploded perspective view schematically
   illustrating a force functioned to developing unit 9, and (b) is a schematic side
   view as seen from a driving side along a rotation axis X.
   [00791      Figure 61 is a perspective view of a release lever release cam and a
   developing device covering member according to the sixth embodiment.
15 [0080]      Figure 62 is a schematic sectional view of a neighborhood of a
   cartridge side drive transmission member according to a seventh embodiment, in
   which (a) illustrates a drive transmission state, and (b) illustrates a drive
   disconnection state.
20 [DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS]
   [Embodiment 1]
   [General description of the electrophotographic image forming apparatus]
   [00811      A first embodiment of the present invention will be described referring
   to the accompanying drawing.
25 [0082]      The example of the image forming apparatuses of the following
   embodiments is a full-color image forming apparatus to which four process
   cartridges are detachably mountable.

                                                 16
   [00831       The number of the process cartridges mountable to the image forming
   apparatus is not limited to this example.      It is properly selected as desired.
   [00841       For example, in the case of a monochromatic image forming apparatus,
   the number of the process cartridges mounted to the image forming apparatus is
 5 one.     The examples of the image forming apparatuses of the following
   embodiments are printers.
   [General arrangement of the image forming apparatus]
   [00851       Figure 2 is a schematic section of an electrophotographic image
   forming apparatus capable of forming an image on a recording material,
10 according to this embodiment.       Part (a) of Figure 3 is a perspective view of the
   image forming apparatus of this embodiment.           Figure 4 is a sectional view of a
   process cartridge P of this embodiment.        Figure 5 is a perspective view of the
   process cartridge P of this embodiment as seen from a driving side, and Figure 6
   is a perspective view of the process cartridge P of this embodiment as seen from a
15 non-driving side.
    [0086]      As shown in Figure 2, the image forming apparatus 1 is a four full
   color laser beam printer using an electrophotographic image forming process for
   forming a color image on a recording material S. The image forming apparatus
    1 is of a process cartridge type, in which the process cartridges are dismountably
20 mounted to a main assembly 2 of the electrophotographic image forming
   apparatus to form the color image on the recording material S.
    [0087]      Here, a side of the image forming apparatus 1 that is provided with a
   front door 3 is a front side, and a side opposite from the front side is a rear side.
   In addition, a right side of the image forming apparatus 1 as seen from the front
25 side is a driving side, and a left side is a non-driving side.     Figure 2 is a sectional
   view of the image forming apparatus 1 as seen from the non-driving side, in
   which a front side of the sheet of the drawing is the non-driving side of the image

                                                 17
   forming apparatus 1, the right side of the sheet of the drawing is the front side of
   the image forming apparatus 1, and the rear side of the sheet of the drawing is the
   driving side of the image forming apparatus 1.
   [0088]     In the main assembly 2 of the image forming apparatus, there are
 5 provided process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK) including a first process
   cartridge PY (yellow), a second process cartridge PM (magenta), a third process
   cartridge PC (cyan), and a fourth process cartridge PK (black), which are
   arranged in the horizontal direction.
   [00891     The first - fourth process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK) include
10 similar electrophotographic image forming process mechanisms, although the
   colors of the developers contained therein are different.     To the first - fourth
   process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK), rotational forces are transmitted from
   drive outputting portions of the main assembly 2 of the image forming apparatus.
   This will be described in detail hereinafter.
is [00901     In addition, the first - fourth each process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC,
   PK) are supplied with bias voltages (charging bias voltages, developing bias
   voltages and so on) (unshown), from the main assembly 2 of the image forming
   apparatus.
   100911     As shown in Figure 4, each of the first - fourth process cartridges P
20 (PY, PM, PC, PK) includes a photosensitive drum unit 8 provided with a
   photosensitive drum 4, a charging means and a cleaning means as process means
   actable on the drum 4.
   [0092]     In addition, each of the first - fourth process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC,
   PK) includes a developing unit 9 provided with a developing means for
25 developing an electrostatic latent image on the drum 4.
   [0093]     The first process cartridge PY accommodates a yellow (Y) developer
   in a developing device frame 29 thereof to form a yellow color developer image

                                               18
   on the surface of the drum 4.
   [0094]     The second process cartridge PM accommodates a magenta (M)
   developer in the developing device frame 29 thereof to form a magenta color
   developer image on the surface of the drum 4.
 5 (00951     The third process cartridge PC accommodates a cyan (C) developer in
   the developing device frame 29 thereof to form a cyan color developer image on
   the surface of the drum 4.
   [00961     The fourth process cartridge PK accommodates a black (K) developer
   in the developing device frame 29 thereof to form a black color developer image
10 on the surface of the drum 4.
   100971     Above the first - fourth process cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK), there is
   provided a laser scanner unit LB as an exposure means.       The laser scanner unit
   LB outputs a laser beam in accordance with image information.        The laser beam
   Z is scanningly projected onto the surface of the drum 4 through an exposure
15 window 10 of the cartridge P.
   [0098]     Below the first - fourth cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK), there is
   provided an intermediary transfer belt unit 11 as a transfer member.      The
   intermediary transfer belt unit 11 includes a driving roller 13, tension rollers 14
   and 15, around which a transfer belt 12 having flexibility is extended.
20 [00991     The drum 4 of each of the first - fourth cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK)
   contacts, at the bottom surface portion, an upper surface of the transfer belt 12.
   The contact portion is a primary transfer portion.   Inside the transfer belt 12,
   there is provided a primary transfer roller 16 opposed to the drum 4.
   [01001     In addition, there is provided a secondary transfer roller 17 at a
25 position opposed the tension roller 14 with the transfer belt 12 interposed
   therebetween.     The contact portion between the transfer belt 12 and the
   secondary transfer roller 17 is a secondary transfer portion.

                                                  19
   [01011     Below the intermediary transfer belt unit 11, a feeding unit 18 is
   provided.    The feeding unit 18 includes a sheet feeding tray 19 accommodating
   a stack of recording materials S, and a sheet feeding roller 20.
   [0102]     Below an upper left portion in the main assembly 2 of the apparatus in
 5 Figure 2, a fixing unit 21 and a discharging unit 22 are provided.      An upper
   surface of the main assembly 2 of the apparatus functions as a discharging tray 23.
   101031      The recording material S having a developer image transferred thereto
   is subjected to a fixing operation by a fixing means provided in the fixing unit 21,
   and thereafter, it is discharged to the discharging tray 23.
10 [0104]      The cartridge P is detachably mountable to the main assembly 2 of the
   apparatus through a drawable cartridge tray 60.       Part (a) of Figure 3 shows a
   state in which the cartridge tray 60 and the cartridges P are drawn out of the main
   assembly 2 of the apparatus.
   [Image forming operation]
15 [0105]      Operations for forming a full-color image will be described.
   [0106]      The drums 4 of the first - fourth cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK) are
   rotated at a predetermined speed (counterclockwise direction in Figure 2, a
   direction indicated by arrow D in Figure 4).
   [01071      The transfer belt 12 is also rotated at the speed corresponding to the
20 speed of the drum 4 codirectionally with the rotation of the drums (the direction
   indicated by an arrow C in Figure 2).
   [0108]      Also, the laser scanner unit LB is driven.    In synchronism with the
   drive of the scanner unit LB, the surface of the drums 4 are charged by the
   charging rollers 5 to a predetermined polarity and potential uniformly.       The laser
25 scanner unit LB scans and exposes the surfaces of the drums 4 with the laser
   beams Z in accordance with the image signal off the respective colors.
   [0109]      By this, the electrostatic latent images are formed on the surfaces of the

                                                20
   drums 4 in accordance with the corresponding color image signal, respectively.
   The electrostatic latent images are developed by the respective developing rollers
   6 rotated at a predetermined speed (clockwisely in Figure 2, the direction
   indicated by an arrow E in Figure 4).
 5 (01101      Through such an electrophotographic image forming process operation,
   a yellow color developer image corresponding to the yellow component of the
   full-color image is formed on the drum 4 of the first cartridge PY.    Then, the
   developer image is transferred (primary transfer) onto the transfer belt 12.
   [01111      Similarly, a magenta developer image corresponding to the magenta
10 component of the full-color image is formed on the drum 4 of the second
   cartridge PM.      The developer image is transferred (primary transfer)
   superimposedly onto the yellow color developer image already transferred onto
   the transfer belt 12.
   [0112]      Similarly, a cyan developer image corresponding to the cyan
15 component of the full-color image is formed on the drum 4 of the third cartridge
   PC.    Then, the developer image is transferred (primary transfer) superimposedly
   onto the yellow color and magenta color developer images already transferred
   onto the transfer belt 12.
   [01131      Similarly, a black developer image corresponding to the black
20 component of the full-color image is formed on the drum 4 of the fourth cartridge
   PK.    Then, the developer image is transferred (primary transfer) superimposedly
   on the yellow color, magenta color and cyan color developer images already
   transferred onto the transfer belt 12.
   [01141      In this manner, a four full-color comprising yellow color, magenta
25 color, cyan color and black color is formed on the transfer belt 12 (unfixed
   developer image).
   [01151      On the other hand, a recording material S is singled out and fed at

                                              21
   predetermined control timing.     The recording material S is introduced at
   predetermined control timing to the secondary transfer portion which is the
   contact portion between the secondary transfer roller 17 and the transfer belt 12.
   [0116]     By this, the four color superimposed developer image is all together
 5 transferred sequentially onto the surface of the recording material S from the
   transfer belt 12 while the recording material S is being fed to the secondary
   transfer portion.
   [General arrangement of the process cartridge]
   [0117]     The general arrangement of the process cartridge for forming an
10 electrophotographic image will be described.      In this embodiment, the first
   fourth cartridges P (PY, PM, PC, PK) have similar electrophotographic image
   forming process mechanisms, although the colors and/or the filled amounts of the
   developers accommodated therein are different.
   [01181     The cartridge P is provided with the drum 4 as the photosensitive
15 member, and the process means actable on the drum 4.        The process means
   includes the charging roller 5 as the charging means for charging the drum 4, a
   developing roller 6 as the developing means for developing the latent image
   formed on the drum 4, a cleaning blade 7 as the cleaning means for removing a
   residual developer remaining on the surface of the drum 4, and so on.     The
20 cartridge P is divided into the drum unit 8 and the developing unit 9.
   [Structure of the drum unit]
    [01191    As shown in Figures 4, 5 and 6, the drum unit 8 comprises the drum 4
   as the photosensitive member, the charging roller 5, the cleaning blade 7, a
   cleaner container 26 as a photosensitive member frame, a residual developer
25 accommodating portion 27, cartridge cover members (a cartridge cover member
   24 in the driving side, and a cartridge cover member 25 in the non-driving side in
   Figures 5 and 6).    The photosensitive member frame in a broad sense comprises

                                               22
   the cleaner container 26 which is the photosensitive member frame in a narrow
   sense, and the residual developer accommodating portion 27, the driving side
   cartridge cover member 24, the non-driving side cartridge cover member 25 as
   well (this applies to the embodiments described hereinafter).     When the
 5 cartridge P is mounted to the main assembly 2 of the apparatus, the
   photosensitive member frame is fixed to the main assembly 2 of the apparatus.
   10120]      The drum 4 is rotatably supported by the cartridge cover members 24
   and 25 provided at the longitudinal opposite end portions of the cartridge P.
   Here, an axial direction of the drum 4 is the longitudinal direction.
10 [01211      The cartridge cover members 24 and 25 are fixed to the cleaner
   container 26 at the opposite longitudinal end portions of the cleaner container 26.
   [01221      As shown in Figure 5, a drive input portion for the photosensitive drum
   (a drive transmitting portion for the photosensitive drum) 4a which is a coupling
   member for transmitting a driving force to the drum 4 is provided at one
is longitudinal end portion of the drum 4.    Part (b) of Figure 3 is a perspective
   view of the main assembly 2 of the apparatus, in which the cartridge tray 60 and
   the cartridge P are not shown.    The coupling members 4a of the cartridges P (PY,
   PM, PC, PK) are engaged with drum-driving-force-outputting members 61 (61 Y,
   61 M, 61 C, 61K) as main assembly side drive transmission members of the main
20 assembly of the apparatus 2 shown in part (b) of Figure 3 so that the driving force
   of a driving motor (unshown) of the main assembly of the apparatus is
   transmitted to the drums 4.
    [01231     The charging roller 5 is supported by the cleaner container 26 and is
   contacted to the drum 4 so as to be driven thereby.
25  [01241     The cleaning blade 7 is supported by the cleaner container 26 so as to
   be contacted to the circumferential surface of the drum 4 at a predetermined
   pressure.

                                               23
   [0125]     An untransferred residual developer removed from the peripheral
   surface of the drum 4 by the cleaning means 7 is accommodated in the residual
   developer accommodating portion 27 in the cleaner container 26.
   [01261     In addition, the driving side cartridge cover member 24 and the non
 5 driving side cartridge cover member 25 are provided with supporting portions
   24a, 25a as sliding portions for rotatably supporting the developing unit 9 (Figure
   6).
   [Structure of the developing unit]
   [0127]     As shown in Figures 1 and 8, the developing unit 9 comprises the
10 developing roller 6, a developing blade 31, the developing device frame 29, a
   bearing member 45, a developing device covering member 32 and so on.         The
   developing device frame in a broad sense comprises the bearing member 45 and
   the developing device covering member 32 and so on as well as the developing
   device frame 29 (this applies to the embodiments which will be described
15 hereinafter).   When the cartridge P is mounted to the main assembly 2 of the
   apparatus, the developing device frame 29 is movable relative to the main
   assembly 2 of the apparatus.
   [0128]     The cartridge frame in a broad sense comprises the photosensitive
   member frame in the above-described broad sense and the developing device
20 frame in the above-described broad sense (the same applies to the embodiments
   which will be described hereinafter).
   [0129]     The developing device frame 29 includes the developer
   accommodating portion 49 accommodating the developer to be supplied to the
   developing roller 6, and the developing blade 31 for regulating a layer thickness
25 of the developer on the peripheral surface of the developing roller 6.
   [01301     In addition, as shown in Figure 1, the bearing member 45 is fixed to
   one longitudinal end portion of the developing device frame 29.     The bearing

                                                 24
   member 45 rotatably supports the developing roller 6.        The developing roller 6
   is provided with a developing roller gear 69 as a drive transmission member at a
   longitudinal end portion.     The bearing member 45 also supports rotatably a
   cartridge side drive transmission member (drive input member) 74 for
 5 transmitting the driving force to the developing roller gear 69.      The cartridge
   side drive transmission member (drive input member) 74 is capable of the
   coupling with a development drive output member 62 (62Y, 62M, 62C and 62K)
   as a main assembly side drive transmission member of the main assembly 2
   shown in part (b) of Figure 3.     That is, by the engagement or coupling between
1o the cartridge side drive transmission member and the development drive output
   member with each other, the driving force is transmitted from a motor (not
   shown) provided in the main assembly 2.         This will be described in detail
   hereinafter.
   [01311      The developing device covering member 32 is fixed to an outside of
15 the bearing member 45 with respect to the longitudinal direction of the cartridge
   P.   The developing device covering member 32 covers the developing roller
   gear 69 and a part of the cartridge side drive transmission member 36 and so on.
   [Assembling of the drum unit and the developing unit]
   [01321      Figures 5 and 6 show connection between the developing unit 9 and the
20 drum unit 8. At one longitudinal end portion side of the cartridge P, an outside
   circumference 32a of a cylindrical portion 32b of the developing device covering
   member 32 is fitted in the supporting portion 24a of the driving side cartridge
   cover member 24.      In addition, at the other longitudinal end portion side of the
   cartridge P, a projected portion 29b projected from the developing device frame
25 29 is fitted in a supporting hole portion 25a of the non-driving side cartridge
   cover member 25.      By this, the developing unit 9 is supported rotatably relative
   to the drum unit 8.    Here, a rotational center (rotation axis) of the developing

                                                25
   unit 9 relative to the drum unit is called rotational center (rotation axis) X.   The
   rotational center X is an axis resulting the center of the supporting hole portion
   24a and the center of the supporting hole portion 25a.
   [Contact between the developing roller and the drum]
 5 [01331     As shown in Figures 4, 5 and 6, developing unit 9 is urged by an
   urging spring 95 which is an elastic member as an urging member so that the
   developing roller 6 is contacted to the drum 4 about the rotational center X.
   That is, the developing unit 9 is pressed in the direction indicated by an arrow G
   in Figure 4 by an urging force of the urging spring 95 which produces a moment
10 in the direction indicated by an arrow H about the rotational center X.
   10134]     By this, the developing roller 6 is contacted to the drum 4 at a
   predetermined pressure.      The position of the developing unit 9 relative to the
   drum unit 8 at this time is a contacting position.    When the developing unit 9 is
   moved in the direction opposite the direction of the arrow G against the urging
15 force of the urging spring 95, the developing roller 6 is spaced from the drum 4.
   In this manner, the developing roller 6 is movable toward and away from the
   drum 4.
   [Spacing between the developing roller and the drum]
    [01351     Figure 7 is a side view of the cartridge P as seen from the driving side
20 along the rotational axis of the developing roller.    In this Figure, some parts are
   omitted for better illustration.   When the cartridge P is mounted in the main
   assembly 2 of the apparatus, the drum unit 8 is positioned in place in the main
   assembly 2 of the apparatus.
    [01361     In this embodiment, an urging force receiving portion (spacing force
25 receiving portion) 45a is provided on the bearing member 45.         Here, the urging
   force receiving portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a may be provided on
   another portion (developing device frame or the like, for example) other than the

                                                 26
   bearing member 45.       The force receiving portion 45a as an urging force
   receiving portion is engageable with a main assembly spacing member 80 as a
   main assembly side urging member (spacing force urging member) provided in
   the main assembly 2 of the apparatus.
 5 [0137]      The main assembly spacing member 80 as the main assembly side
   urging member (spacing force urging member) receives the driving force from
   the motor (unshown) and is movable along a rail 81 to the direction of arrows F 1
   and F2.
    [01381     The description will be made as to the spacing operations between the
10 developing roller and the photosensitive member (drum).          Part (a) of Figure 7
   shows a state in which the drum 4 and the developing roller 6 are contacted with
   each other.    At this time, the urging force receiving portion (spacing force
   receiving portion) 45a and the main assembly spacing member (main assembly
   side urging member) 80 are spaced by a gap d.
15  [01391     Part (b) of Figure 7 shows a state in which the main assembly spacing
   member (main assembly side urging member) 80 is away from the position in the
   state of the part (a) of Figure 7 in the direction of an arrow Fl by a distance 61.
   At this time, the urging force receiving portion (spacing force receiving portion)
   45a is engaged with the main assembly spacing member (main assembly side
20 urging member) 80.       As described in the foregoing, the developing unit 9 is
   rotatable relative to the drum unit 8, and therefore, in the state of part (b) of
   Figure 7, the developing unit 9 has rotated by an angle      1 in the direction of the
   arrow K about the rotational axis X.      At this time, the drum 4 and the developing
   roller 6 are spaced from each other by distance 1.
25  [01401     Part (c) of Figure 7 shows the state in which the spacing force urging
   member (main assembly side urging member) 80 has moved in the direction of
   the arrow F1 by a distance 62 (>61) from the state shown in part (a) of Figure 7.

                                                27
   The developing unit 9 has been rotated in the direction of the arrow K about the
   rotation axis X by an angle 02.    At this time, the developing roller 6 is spaced
   from the drum 4 by a gap F2.
   [Positional relations between developing roller, cartridge side drive transmission
 5 member and urging force receiving portion]
   [01411      As shown in parts (a) - (c) of Figure 7, as the cartridge P is seen along
   the rotational axis of the developing roller from the driving side, the developing
   roller 6 is between the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 and the
   urging force receiving portion 45a.     More particularly, as the cartridge P is seen
10 along the rotational axis of the developing roller, the urging force receiving
   portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a is disposed in the substantially
   opposite side from a drive input member 74 across the developing roller 6.
   More particularly, a line connecting a contact portion 45b of the urging force
   receiving portion 45a for receiving the force from the main assembly side urging
15 member 80 and a rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6, and a line
   connecting a rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6 and the rotational axis of
   the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 (coaxial with the rotation axis X
   in this embodiment) are crossed at an angle.      In addition, as the cartridge P is
   seen along the rotational axis of the developing roller, a line connecting the
20 contact portion 45b and the rotational axis of the cartridge side drive transmission
   member 74 passes through the developing roller 6.        Such an arrangement is also
   expressed as the developing roller 6 being disposed between the cartridge side
   drive transmission member 74 and the urging force receiving portion 45a. In
   this embodiment, the rotation axis X about which the developing unit 9 is
25 rotatable relative to the drum unit is coaxial with the rotational axis of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 74.
    101421     Furthermore, the rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6 is

                                                28
   disposed between the rotational axis 4z of the photosensitive member 4, the
   rotational axis of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 and the contact
   portion 45b of the urging force receiving portion 45a. In other words, as the
   cartridge P is seen along the rotational axis of the developing roller from the
 5 driving side, the rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6 is disposed within a
   triangular shape provided by the lines connecting the rotational axis 4z of the
   photosensitive member 4, the rotational axis X of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 74 and the contact portion 45b.
   [01431     Here, the developing unit 9 is rotatable relative to the drum unit 8, and
10 therefore, the positional relation of the cartridge side drive transmission member
   74 and the urging force receiving portion 45a relative to the photosensitive
   member 4 is changeable.       However, in any positional relation, the rotational axis
   6z of the developing roller 6 is disposed between the rotational axis 4z, the
   rotational axis (X) of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 and the
15 contact portion 45b.
   [01441     By arranging the developing roller between the contact portion 45b and
   the rotation axis X, the spacing and contacting of the developing roller can be
   accomplished with precision as compared with the structure in which the
   developing roller remote from between the contact portion 45b and the rotation
20 axis X.    Furthermore, as the cartridge P is seen along the rotational axis of the
   developing roller from the driving side, the distance between the distance
   between the rotation axis X and the contact portion 45b is preferably longer than
   the distance between the rotation axis X and the rotational axis 6z of the
   developing roller 6, since then the spacing and contacting timings can be
25 controlled with the precision.
   [01451      In this embodiment (also in the substrate second embodiments), the
   distance between the rotational axis of the drum 4 and the contact portion

                                                  29
   between the urging force receiving portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a
   and the main assembly side urging member 80 is within arrange of 13 mm - 33
   mm.     In addition, in this embodiment (also in the subsequent embodiments), the
   distance between the rotation axis X and the contact portion between the force
 5 receiving portion 45a and the main assembly side urging member 80 is within a
   range of 27 mm - 32 mm.
   [Drive transmission to photosensitive drum]
   [0146]      The drive transmission to the photosensitive drum 4 will be described.
   [0147]      As described hereinbefore, the drive inputting portion for the
10 photosensitive member (drive transmitting portion for the photosensitive
   member) 4a which is the coupling member provided at the end portion of the
   drum 4 as the photosensitive member is engaged with the drum-driving-force
   outputting member 61 (61C, 61K) of the main assembly 2 shown in part (b) of
   Figure 3 to receive the driving force from the driving motor (unshown) of the
15 main assembly A.       By this, the drive is transmitted from the main assembly to
   the drum 4.
   [0148]      As shown in Figure 1, a drive inputting portion for the photosensitive
   member (drive transmitting portion for the photosensitive member) 4a which is
   the coupling member provided at the end portion of the photosensitive drum 4 is
20 exposed through an opening 24d of the driving side cartridge cover member 24
   which is the frame provided at a longitudinal end portion of the cartridge P.
   More particularly, the drive inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member is
   projected outwardly of the cartridge beyond the opening plane of the opening 24d
   of the cartridge cover member 24.       The drive inputting portion 4a for the
25 photosensitive member is fixed in the direction toward the inside of the cartridge
   P (along the rotational axis of the photosensitive member), as contrasted to the
   drive inputting portion 74b which is capable of advancing and retracting as

                                                30
   described in the foregoing.    That is, the drive inputting portion 4a for the
   photosensitive member is fixed relative to the drum 4.
   [Drive transmission to developing roller]
   (Operations of drive connecting portion and releasing mechanism)
 5 [01491      Referring to Figures 1 and 8, the structure of the drive connecting
   portion will be described.    Here, the drive connecting portion is a mechanism for
   receiving a driving force from the developing device-drive output member 62 as
   the main assembly side drive transmission member of the main assembly 2 and
   for selectively transmitting and disconnecting the drive force to the developing
1o roller 6.   In this embodiment, the drive connecting portion comprises a spring 70,
   the drive input member 74, a release cam 72, the developing device covering
   member 32 and the driving side cartridge cover member 24.
   [01501      As shown in Figures 1 and 8, the cartridge side drive transmission
   member 74 and the developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with
15 each other through the, an opening 32d and an opening 72f of the release cam 72.
   More particularly, as shown in Figure 1, the driving side cartridge cover member
   24 which is the frame provided at the longitudinal end portion of the cartridge is
   provided with openings 24e (through-openings).        The developing device
   covering member 32 which is coupled with the driving side cartridge cover
20 member 24 is provided with a cylindrical portion 32b which is provided with an
   opening 32d (through-opening).
   [0151]      The cartridge side drive transmission member 74 is provided with a
   shaft portion 74x and has an end portion provided with the drive inputting portion
   74b as a rotational force receiving portion.    The shaft portion 74x penetrates the
25 opening 72f of the release cam, the opening 32d of the developing device
   covering member 32 and the opening 24e of the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24, and the drive inputting portion 74b at the free end is exposed toward

                                                 31
   the outside of the cartridge.    More particularly, the drive inputting portion 74b is
   projected to the outside of the cartridge beyond an opening plane of the driving
   side cartridge cover member 24 provided with the opening 24e.          A projection of
   the drive inputting portion 74b is coupled with a recess 62b provided on the main
 5 assembly side drive transmission member 62, so that the driving is transmitted to
   the drive inputting portion 74b from the main assembly side.        The drive
   inputting portion 74b has a configuration provided by slightly twisting a
   substantially triangular prism (Figure 1).
   [0152]      Furthermore, a gear portion 74 g is provided on an outer peripheral
10 surface of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 and is engaged with
   the developing roller gear 69.     By this, the drive transmitted to the drive
   inputting portion 74b of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 is
   transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the gear portion 74 g and the
   developing roller gear 69 of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74.
15  [01531     The drive inputting portion 74b of this embodiment is movable toward
   the inside of the cartridge.   More particularly, a portion-to-be-urged 74c
   provided at the base portion of the shaft portion 74x of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 74 is pressed by the release cam 72, so that the drive input
   member 74 is retracted toward the inside of the cartridge.      By doing so, the
20 transmission and disconnection of the driving force supplied from the main
   assembly side drive transmission member 62.
   [01541      In this embodiment and also in the subsequent embodiments, the
   direction toward the inside of the cartridge is along the rotation axis X and is
   indicated by N in Figure 1.     However, even if it is slightly oblique relative to the
25 rotation axis X, such a direction is also a direction toward the inside of the
   cartridge is the direction is effective to be engaged the drive inputting portion 74b
   and the main assembly side drive transmission member 62 from each other.

                                                32
   (Structure of drive connecting portion)
   [01551      Referring to Figures 1, 8 and 9, the structure will be described in detail.
   Provided between the driving side cartridge cover member 24 as a part of the
   frame provided at the longitudinal end portion of the cartridge P and the bearing
 5 member 45 supporting the shaft of the developing roller, are the spring 70 which
   is an elastic portion as an urging member for urging in the direction from the
   bearing member 45 toward the driving side cartridge cover member 24, the drive
   input member 74 as the cartridge side drive transmission member urged by the
   spring 70, the release cam 72 as a coupling releasing member which is a part of
10 the releasing mechanism, and the developing device covering member 32.            The
   rotational axes of these members are coaxially with the rotational axis of the
   drive input member 74.       Here, they are coaxial with each other within the range
   of the dimensional tolerances of the respect that parts, which applies to the
   subsequent embodiments which will be described hereinafter.
15 [0156]      Figure 9 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting portion.
   [0157]      As described hereinbefore, the supported portion 74p (inner surface of
   the cylindrical portion) of the drive input member 74 and the first shaft receiving
   portion 45p (outer surface of the cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45
   are engaged with each other.      In addition, the cylindrical portion 74q of the drive
20 input member 74 and the inside circumference 32q of the developing device
   covering member 32 are engaged with each other.          Thus, the drive input
   member 74 is rotatably supported at the opposite ends thereof by the bearing
   member 45 and in the developing device covering member 32.
   [0158]      In addition, the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the developing
25 roller 6.   More particularly, a second shaft receiving portion 45q (inner surface
   of the cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the shaft
   portion 6a of the developing roller 6.     And, the developing roller gear 69 is

                                                 33
   engaged with the shaft portion 6a of the developing roller 6.      As described
   hereinbefore, the outer peripheral surface of the drive input member 74 is formed
   into a gear portion 74 g for meshing engagement with the developing roller gear
   69.    By this, the rotational force is transmitted from the drive input member 74
 5 to the developing roller 6 through the developing roller gear 69.
   (01591      The centers of the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 and the inside circumference 32q
   of the developing device covering member 32 are on the rotation axis X of the
   developing unit 9.     That is, the drive input member 74 is supported rotatably
10 about the rotation axis X of the developing unit 9.
    [01601     Outside of the developing device covering member 32 with respect to
   the longitudinal direction of the cartridge P, the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24 is provided.       Part (a) of Figure 9 is a schematic sectional view
   illustrating a connection state (coupling state) between the drive inputting portion
is 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly.          Such a state in which the drive inputting
   portion 74b is projected to the outside of the cartridge beyond the opening plane
   of the opening 24e of the driving side cartridge cover member 24, and the
   rotational force can be transmitted from the developing device-drive output
20 member 62 to the drive inputting portion 74b is called "first position" of the drive
   input member 74.       Provided between the bearing member 45 and the drive
   inputting portion 74b is the spring 70 (elastic member) as the urging member to
   urge the drive inputting portion 74b in the direction indicated by an arrow M.
    [0161]     In the state of part (a) of Figure 9, when the release cam 72 and the
25  drive input member 74 are projected on a phantom line parallel with the
   rotational axis of the developing roller 6, the range of the release cam 72 within
   the range of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74.        Thus, at least a

                                                34
   part of the range of the release cam 72 is overlapped with the range of a part of
   the drive input member 74, by which the drive disconnecting mechanism can be
   downsized.
   [01621      Part (b) of Figure 9 is a schematic sectional view in which the
 5 connection between the drive inputting portion 74b and the developing device
   drive output member 62 has been broken, and they are spaced from each other.
   The drive inputting portion 74b is movable in the direction of an arrow N against
   an urging force of a spring 39, by being pressed by the release cam 72 which is an
   urging mechanism.
10 [01631      A state in which the rotational force from the developing device-drive
   output member 62 is not transmitted to the drive inputting portion 74b as shown
   in part (b) of Figure 9 is called "second position" of the drive input member 74.
   In the second position, the drive inputting portion 74b is closer to the side of the
   cartridge than in the first position.   The second position is preferably such that
15 the drive inputting portion 74b provided at the end portion of the cartridge drive
   input member is retracted from the outer surface of the cartridge in which the
   opening plane of the frame exists.      However, as shown in part (b) of Figure 9,
   the outer surface and the end surface of the drive inputting portion 74b may be
   flush with each other, or the end surface of the drive inputting portion 74b may be
20 projected slightly beyond the outer surface.      In any case, the second position
   may correspond to the state in which the drive inputting portion 74 closer to the
   inside of the cartridge than in the first position, and the developing device-drive
   output member 62 and the drive input member 74 are out of the driving
   connection.
25 [0164]      Figure 12 is a sectional view of a structure including the bearing
   member 45, the spring 70, the drive input member 74 and the developing roller
   gear 69.

                                                  35
    [01651      The first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of cylindrical
    portion) has a first guide portion for the bearing member 45 rotatably supports a
    supported portion (portion to be supported) 74p (inner surface of the cylindrical
    portion) as a first portion-to-be-guided of the drive input member 74.     In the
  5 state that the supported portion 74p is engaged with the first shaft receiving
    portion 45p, the drive input member 74 is movable along the rotation axis
    (rotational center) X.    In other words, the bearing member 45 supports the drive
    input member 74 slidably (reciprocally) along the rotation axis X.      Further in
    other words, the drive input member 74 is slidable relative to the bearing member
10  45 in the directions of arrows M and N.
    [01661      Part (b) of Figure 12 shows a state in which the drive input member 74
    has moved in the direction of the arrow N relative to the bearing member 45 from
    the state shown in part (a) of Figure 12.     The drive input member 74 is movable
    in the directions of arrow M and arrow N while engaging with the developing
1   roller gear 69.    In order to make it easier the movement of the drive input
    member 74 along the rotation axis X in the directions of the arrow M (outwardly
    of the cartridge) and arrow N (inwardly of the cartridge), the gear portion 74 g of
    the drive input member 74 is preferably a spur gear rather than a helical gear.
    The position of the drive input member 74 of part (a) of Figure 12 response to the
20  above-described first position, and the position of the drive input member 74 of
    part (b) of Figure 12 corresponds to the above-described second position.
    (Releasing mechanism)
    [01671      A drive disconnecting mechanism we've be described.
    (01681      As shown in Figures 1 and 8, between the gear portion 74 g of the
25  drive input member 74 and the developing device covering member 32, the
    release cam 72 Is provided as the coupling releasing member which is a part of
    the releasing mechanism.       In other words, the release cam 72 is provided in the

                                                36
   range of the drive input member 74 with respect to a direction parallel with the
   rotational axis of the developing roller 6.
   [0169]      Figure 10 shows a relationship between the release cam 72 and the
   developing device covering member 32.         The release cam 72 is provided with a
 5 ring portion having a substantially ring configuration, and the release cam 72 as
   an outer periphery portion which is an outer peripheral surface.      The outer
   periphery portion is provided with a projected portion 72i projecting from the
   ring portion.    In this embodiment, the projected portion 72i projects in the
   direction along the rotational axis of the developing roller.    In addition, the
10 developing device covering member 32 has an inner surface 32i.          The inner
   surface 32i is engaged with the outer peripheral surface.      By doing so, the
   release cam 72 is slidable in the direction of the axis of the developing roller 6
   relative to the developing device covering member 32.        In other words, the
   release cam 72 is movable relative to the developing device covering member 32
15 in the direction substantially parallel with the rotational axis of the developing
   roller 6.   The centers of the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 72, the
   inner surface 32i of the developing device covering member 32 and the outside
   circumference 32a of the developing device covering member 32 are coaxial with
   each other
20 [0170]      In addition, an urging surface 72c as an urging portion is provided on
   the surface opposite from the surface from which the projected portion 72i of the
   release cam 72 projects.     As will be described hereinafter, the urging surface 72c
   urges an urged surface (surface to be urged) 74c of the drive input member 74.
   [01711      In addition, the developing device covering member 32 is provided
25 with a guide 32h as a second guide portion, and the release cam 72 is provided
   with a guide groove 72h as a second portion-to-be-guided.        The guide 32h and
   the guide groove 72h extend in the direction parallel with the axial direction.

                                                 37
   The guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32 is engaged with the
   guide groove 72h of the release cam 72 as the coupling releasing member.
   Because of disengagement between the guide 32h and the guide groove 72h, the
   release cam 72 is slidable only in the axial directions (arrows M and N) relative
 5 to the developing device covering member 32.
   [01721     It is not inevitable the both of the guide 32h and the guide groove 72
   are parallel with the rotational axis X of the opposite sides, but it will suffice if
   only one side contacting to each other is parallel with the rotational axis X.
   [01731     Figure 11 illustrates structures of the release cam 72, the developing
10 device covering member 32 and the driving side cartridge cover member 24.
   [0174]     Outside of the developing device covering member 32 with respect to
   the longitudinal direction of the cartridge P, the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24 is provided.
   [01751     The release cam 72 as the coupling releasing member includes a
15 contact portion (inclined surface) 72a as a force receiving portion for receiving
   the force produced by (the urging member 80 of) the main assembly 2.           The
   driving side cartridge cover member 24 includes a contact portion (inclined
   surface 24b as an operating member.       In addition, the developing device
   covering member 32 is provided with another opening 32j around the opening
20 32d.    The contact portion 72a of the release cam 72 and the contact portion 24b
   of the driving side cartridge cover member 24 are contactable to each other
   through the opening 32j of the developing device covering member 32.
   [01761     In this example, the numbers of the contact portion 72a of the release
   cam 72 and the contact portion 24b of the driving side cartridge cover member 24
25 are two, respectively, but these numbers and not restrictive.    For example, the
   numbers may be three, respectively.
   [01771     The numbers may be one, respectively, but in that case, the release cam

                                                   38
   72 is likely to tilt relative to the axis X by the force applied to the contact portion
   during the drive transmission releasing operation as will be described hereinafter.
   If the tilting occurs, the drive switching property such as the driving connection
   and releasing operation timing may be deteriorated.          In other to suppress the
 5 tilting, it is preferable that the supporting portion (inner surface 32i of the
   developing device covering member 32) slidably supporting the release cam 72
   (slidable along the axis of the developing roller 6) is reinforced.       In this respect,
   it is preferable that the members of the respective contact portions are plural and
   they are all arranged substantially at regular intervals in the circumferential
10 direction about the axis X.       In such a case, the resultant force of the force is
   applied to the contact portion produces moment tending to rotate the release cam
   72 about the axis X.       Therefore, the tilting of the release cam 72 relative to the
   axis X can be suppressed.        Furthermore, when more than three contact portions
   are provided, a flat plane in which the release cam 72 it supported can be fixed,
15 and therefore, the tilting of the release cam 72 can be further prevented.         Thus,
   the attitude of the release cam 72 can be stabilized.
   [Drive disconnecting operation]
   [0178]       Referring to Figure 7 and Figures 13 - 15, the description will be made
   as to an operation of the drive connecting portion when the developing roller 6 is
20 separating from the drum 4.        For the simplicity of the restoration, a part of the
   elements are shown, and a part of the structure of the release cam is illustrated
   schematically.       In the Figures, an arrow M is along the rotation axis X and is
   oriented toward a outside of the cartridge, and an arrow N is along the rotation
   axis X and is oriented toward an inside of the cartridge.
25 [State 1]
   [0179]       As shown in part (a) of Figure 7, between the spacing force urging
   member 80 and the urging force receiving portion (spacing force receiving

                                                 39
   portion) 45a of the bearing member 45, there is a gap d.       Here, the drum 4 and
   the developing roller 6 are contacted with each other.       This state is called "state
    1" of the spacing force urging member 80.       Figure 13 shows the structures of the
   drive connecting portion at this time.     In part (a) of Figure 13, the pair of the
 5 drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output member 62, and
   the pair of the release cam 72 with driving side cartridge cover member 24 are
   separately and schematically shown.        Part (b) of Figure 13 is the perspective
   view of the drive connecting portion.      In part (b) of Figure 13, as to the driving
   side cartridge cover member 24, only a part including the contact portion 24b is
10 shown, and as to the developing device covering member 32, only a part
   including the guide 32h is shown.       A gap e is provided between the contact
   portion 72a of the release cam 72 and the contact portion 24b of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 24.       At this time, the drive input member 74 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by an
15 engaging amount (depth) q, and in this state, the drive transmission is possible.
   As described hereinbefore, the drive input member 74 is engaged with the
   developing roller gear 69 (Figure 12).      Therefore, the driving force supplied
   from the main assembly 2 to the drive input member 74 is transmitted to the
   developing roller gear 69 to drive the developing roller 6.      The position of
20 various parts in the state is called a contacting position, and is also called a
   development contact drive transmission state.        The position of the drive input
   member 74 at this time is called a first position.
    [State 2]
    [01801     When the spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging
25 member) 80 move in the direction of the arrow F 1 in the Figure by 61 from the
   drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state, as shown in part (b) of Figure 7,
   the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K about the

                                                 40
   rotation axis X by the angle 01.     As a result, the developing roller 6 space is
   from the drum 4 by a distance &l. The release cam 72 and the developing
   device covering member 32 in the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction
   indicated by the arrow K by the angle Ol in interrelation with the rotation of the
 5 developing unit 9.     On the other hand, when the cartridge P is mounted on the
   main assembly 2, the drum unit 8, the driving side cartridge cover member 24 and
   the non-driving side cartridge cover member 25 are position and fixed to the main
   assembly 2.     In other words, as shown in part (a) and part (b) of Figure 14, the
   contact portion 24b of the driving side cartridge cover member 24 does not move.
10 In the Figure, the release cam 72 has rotated in the direction of the arrow K in the
   Figure in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 to a state in
   which the contact portion 72a of the release cam 72 and the contact portion 24b
   of the driving side cartridge cover member 24 start contacting to each other.       At
   this time, the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
15 member 62 e kept in engagement with each other (part (a) of Figure 14).
   Therefore, the driving force supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive input
   member 74 is transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the developing roller
   gear 69.    This state of various parts is called a drum-roller-spaced-and-drive
   transmission state.    The position of the drive input member 74 is in the first
20 position.
   [State 3]
   101811      Part (a) and part (b) of Figure 15 show the structures of the drive
   connecting portion when the spacing force urging member (main assembly side
   urging member) 80 moves in the direction indicated by the arrow F1 in the Figure
25 by the distance 62 from the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state, as
   shown in part (c) of Figure 7.     In interrelation with the rotation of the developing
   unit 9 by the angle 02 (>01), the release cam 72 and the developing device

                                                 41
   covering member 32 rotate.       On the other hand, the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24 does not move similarly to the above-described case, and the release
   cam 72 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K in the Figure.        At this
   time, the contact portion 72a of the release cam 72 receives a reaction force from
 5 the contact portion 24b of the driving side cartridge cover member 24.          In
   addition, as described hereinbefore, the guide groove 72h of the release cam 72 is
   engaged with the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32, and
   therefore, is movable only in the axial direction (arrow M and N directions)
   (Figure 10).    As a result, the release cam 72 makes sliding movement in the
10 direction of the arrow N relative to the developing device covering member by
   movement distance p.       In addition, in interrelation with the movement of the
   release cam 72 in the direction of the arrow N, the urging surface 72c which is an
   urging portion of the release cam 72 as the urging member urges the urged
   surface 74c of the drive input member 74.        By this, the drive input member 74
15 slides by the movement distance p in the direction of the arrow N against the
   urging force of the spring 70 (parts (b) of Figure 15 and Figure 12).
   [01821      Because the movement distance p is larger than the engagement
   amount q between the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive
   output member 62, the engagement between the drive input member 74 and the
20 developing device-drive output member 62 is released.          As a result, the
   developing device-drive output member 62 of the main assembly 2 continues
   rotating, and on the other hand, the drive input member 74 stops.        Therefore, the
   rotations of the developing roller gear 69 and the developing roller 6 stop.       This
   state of various parts is called a spacing position and is also called a drum-roller
25 spaced-and-drive-disconnection state.       The position of the drive input member
   74 at this time is called a second position.
   [01831      By the drive input member 74 being urged by the urging portion 72c of

                                                42
   the release cam 72 in this manner, the drive input member 74 is moved from the
   first position to the second position toward the inside of the cartridge.    By doing
   so, the engagement between the drive input member 74 and the developing
   device-drive output member 62 are released, so that the rotational force from the
 5 developing device-drive output member 62 is no longer transmitted to the drive
   input member 74.
    [01841     In the movement distance p through which the drive input member 74
   moves from the first position to the second position is not less than the
   engagement amount q between the drive input member 74 and the developing
10 device-drive output member 62 (Figure 34), and is more preferably not less than a
   height 74z of the drive inputting portion 74b (measured in the direction of the
   axis X) (Figure 12).     What specific early, the movement distance p of this '
   embodiment is 2.2 mm.       In order to assure that transmission and release of the
   driving force from the main assembly side, the movement distance p is preferably
15 not less than 2 mm and not more than 3 mm.
    [0185]     In the foregoing, the description has been made as to the drive
   disconnecting operation relative to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with
   the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow K.     By
   employing the above-described structure, the developing roller 6 is capable of
20  spacing from the drum 4 while rotating.     As a result, the drive to the developing
   roller 6 can be stopped depending on the space distance between the developing
   roller 6 and the drum 4.
    [Drive connecting operation]
    [01861     The description will be made as to the operation of the drive
25 connecting portion at the time when the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
   change from the spaced state to the contacted state,     The operation is reciprocal
   of the above-described operation from the contact state (drum-roller) to the

                                                 43
   spaced state.
   [0187]      In the spaced-developing-device state (the developing unit 9 is rotated
   by the angle 02 as shown in part (c) of Figure 7), the engagement between the
   drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output member 62 is
 5 released in the drive connecting portion, as shown in Figure 15.        That is, the
   drive input member 74 is in the second position.
   [01881      In the state that the developing unit 9 has been gradually rotated ion the
   direction of the arrow H in Figure 7 (in the direction opposite from the above
   described arrow K direction) so that the developing unit 9 is rotated by the angle
10 01 (part (b) of Figure 7 and Figure 14), the drive input member 74 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by the
   drive input member 74 moving in the direction of the arrow M by the urging
   force of the spring 70.
   [0189]      By this, the driving force is transmitted from the main assembly 2 to
15 the developing roller 6 so that the developing roller 6 is rotated.      That is, the
   drive input member 74 is in the first position.      At this time, the developing roller
   6 and the drum 4 are kept separated from each other.
   [01901      By further rotating the developing unit 9 gradually from this state in
   the direction of the arrow H (Figure 7), the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
20 can be contacted to each other.      Also in this state, the drive input member 74 is
   in the first position.
    [01911     In the foregoing, the drive transmission operation to the developing
   roller 6 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction
   of the arrow H has been described.       With the foregoing structures, the
25 developing roller 6 is brought into contact to the drum 4 while rotating, and the
   drive can be transmitted to the developing roller 6 depending on the spacing
   distance between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.

                                                44
   101921     As described in the foregoing, wherein such structures, the switching
   between the connection and disconnection relative to the developing roller 6 can
   be effected unique depending on the angle of rotation of the developing unit 9.
   [01931     In the foregoing description, the contact between the contact portion
 5 72a of the release cam 72 and the contact portion 24b of the driving side cartridge
   cover member 24 is surface-to-surface contact, but this is not restrictive on the
   present invention.    For example, the contact may be between a surface and a
   ridge, between a surface and a point, between a ridge and a ridge, or between a
   ridge and a point.
10 [Releasing mechanism]
   [0194]     Referring to Figure 16 schematically illustrating a projection a
   relationship between the release cam 72, the driving side cartridge cover member
   24 and the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32, the releasing
   mechanism will be described.
15 (0195]     Part (a) of Figure 16 illustrates the drum-roller-contact-and-drive
   transmission state, part (b) of Figure 16 illustrates the drum-roller-spaced-and
   drive-transmission state, and part (c) of Figure 16 illustrates the drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-disconnection state.      These states are the same as those shown
   in Figures 13, 14 and 15, respectively.     In part (c) of Figure 16, the release cam
20 72.and the driving side cartridge cover member 24 are contacted with each other
   at the contact portion 72a and the, which are inclined relative to the rotation axis
   X.    Here, in the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, the positional
   relationship between the release cam 72 and the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24 may be as shown in part (d) of Figure 16.          More particularly, as
25 shown in part (c) of Figure 16, the contact portion 72a and the contact portion
   24b which are inclined relative to the rotation axis X are contacted to each other,
   and then the developing unit 9 is rotated.     By this, the release cam 72 and the

                                                 45
   driving side cartridge cover member 24 are contacted with each other at a flat
   surface portion 72s and a flat surface portion 24s which are perpendicular to the
   rotation axis X.
   [01961      When there is a gap f between the guide groove 72h of the release cam
 5 72 and in the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32, as shown
   in part (a) of Figure 16, the change from the drum-roller-contact-and-drive
   transmission state shown in part (a) of Figure 16 to the drum-roller-spaced-and
   disconnection state as shown in part (d) of Figure 16 is the same as that described
   in the foregoing.    On the other hand, in the change from the drum-roller-spaced
10 and-drive-disconnection state shown in part (d) of Figure 16 to the driving
   connection state shown in part (a) of Figure 16, the gap f between the guide
   groove 72h of the release cam 72 and the guide 32h of the developing device
   covering member 32 first disappears (part (e) of Figure 16).      Then, the situation
   changes to the state immediately before the contact between the contact portion
15 72a and the contact portion 24b (part (f) of Figure 16).    Then, the situation
   changes to the state in which the contact portion 72a and the contact portion 24b
   are contacted to each other (part (c) a Figure 16).    The relative to position the
   relationship between the release cam 72 and in the driving side cartridge cover
   member 24 in the changed from the spaced-developing-device state to the
20 contacted-developing-device state of the developing unit 9 is the same as that
   described hereinbefore.
   [01971      In the case that the gap f exists between the guide groove 72h of the
   release cam 72 and the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32
   as shown in Figure 16, the release cam 72 does not move in the ejection of the
25 arrow M until the gap f disappears in the process of changing from the spaced
   developing-device state to the contacted-developing-device state.       By the release
   cam 72 moving in the direction of the arrow M, the driving connection is

                                                 46
   accomplished between the drive input member 74 and in the developing device
   drive output member 62.       That is, the timing at which the release cam 72 move
   in the ejection of the arrow M and the driving connection a synchronized with
   each other.    In other words, the timing of the driving connection can be
 5 controlled by the gap f between the guide groove 72h of the release cam 72 and in
   the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32.
   [0198]      The description will be made as to the structure in which the
   developing device separation and the drive disconnection states of the developing
   unit 9 are accomplished in the state shown in part (c) of Figure 16 and Figure 15.
10 That is, in the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-disconnection state, the contact
   portion 72a and the contact portion 24b which are inclined relative to the rotation
   axis X are contacted with each other, by which the release cam 72 and the driving
   side cartridge cover member 24 are contacted with each other.         In this case, the
   timing at which the release cam 72 move in the direction of the arrow M is not
15 dependent on the gap f between the guide groove 72h of the release cam 72 and
   the guide 32h of the developing device covering member 32.           Therefore, the
   timing of the driving connection can be controlled more accurately.         In addition,
   the movement distances of the release cam 72 in the directions of arrows M and
   N can be reduced so that the size of the process cartridge in the axial direction
20 can be reduced.
   [Difference from the conventional example]
   [01991      The difference is from the conventional structure will be described.
   [02001      In the structure of Japanese Laid-open Patent Application 2001-337511,
   the coupling for receiving the drive from the main assembly of the image forming
25 apparatus and a spring clutch for switching the drive transmission are provided at
   a developing roller end portion.     In addition, the link interrelated with the
   rotation of the developing unit is provided in the process cartridge.      When the

                                                47
   developing roller it is spaced from the drum by the rotation of the developing unit,
   the link acts on the spring clutch provided at the developing roller end portion to
   disconnect the drive transmission to the developing roller.
   [02011      The spring clutch per se is not free of variation.  With this structure,
 5 delay tends to occur from the operation of the spring clutch to the actual drive
   transmission this connection.      Furthermore, because of the dimension variations
   of the link mechanism and the variations of the rotation angle of the developing
   unit, the timing at which the link mechanism acts on the spring clutch may not be
   constant.    Moreover, the link mechanism actable on the spring clutch is provided
10 at the position not the rotational center of the developing unit and the drum unit.
   [0202]      In the embodiment of the present invention, a control variation of the
   rotation time of the developing roller can be reduced by employing the structure
   four switching the drive transmission to the developing roller (contact portion 72a
   of the release cam 72, the contact portion 24b as the operating portion of the
15 driving side cartridge cover member 24 actable on the contact portion 72a, the
   contact portion (inclined surface) 72a of the release cam 72, contact portion
   (inclined surface) 24b of the driving side cartridge cover member 24).
   [02031      Furthermore, the structure of the clutch is coaxial with the rotational
   center about which the developing unit is rotatable relative to the drum unit.
20 The relative position error between the drum unit and the developing unit is least
   at the rotational center.    Therefore, by disposing the drive transmission
   switching clutch at the rotational center, the switching timing of the clutch
   relative to the rotation angle of the developing unit can be controlled most
   accurately.    As a result, the rotation time of the developing roller can be
25 controlled with the precision, so that the deteriorations of the developer and the
   developing roller can be suppressed.
   [0204]      In addition, in the conventional image forming apparatus and process

                                                48
   cartridge, the drive switching clutch for the developing roller is provided in the
   image forming apparatus in some cases.
   [02051     For example, when a monochromatic printing is carried out in a full
   color image forming apparatus, the drive for the developing device or devices for
 5 the non-black color or colors and is collected using clutches.     In addition, also in
   a monochromatic image forming apparatus, it is possible that the drive is
   transmitted to the developing device when the electrostatic latent image on the
   drum is developed by the developing device, whereas when the developing
   operation is not carried out, the driving to the developing device is disconnected,
10 using the clutch.    By controlling the rotation time of the developing roller by
   disconnecting the driving to the developing device during non-image-forming
   operation, the deterioration of the developer or the developing roller can be
   suppressed.
   [02061     As compared with the case in which a clutch for the drive switching to
15 the developing roller in the image forming apparatus, the clutch can be
   downsized in the case that the these is provided in the process cartridge.     Figure
   17 is a block diagram showing an example over a gear arrangement in the image
   forming apparatus when the drive from the motor (driving source) provided in the
   image forming apparatus is transmitted to the process cartridge.      When the drive
20 is transmitted from a motor 83 to the process cartridge P (PK), the transmission is
   effected through the idler gear 84 (K), the clutch 85. (K) and the idler gear 86 (K).
   When the drive is transmitted from a motor 83 to the process cartridge P (PY, PM,
   PC), the transmission is effected through the idler gear 84 (YMC), the clutch 85
   (YMC) and the idler gear 86 (YMC).        The drive of the motor 83 is divided into a
25 drive for the idler gear 84 (K) and a drive for the idler gear 84 (YMC), and the
   drive from the clutch 85 (YMC) is divided into a drive for the idler gear 86 (Y), a
   drive for the idler gear 86 (M) and a drive for the idler gear 86 (C).

                                                  49
    [02071      When the monochromatic printing is carried out in the full-color image
    forming apparatus, for example, the drives for the developing devices containing
    non-black developers are disconnected using the clutch 85 (YMC).           In the case
    of the full-color printing, the drive of the motor 83 is transmitted to the process
 5  cartridges P through the clutch 85 (YMC).        At this time, the load concentration
    occurs at the clutch 85 (YMC) to driving the process cartridges P.        More
    particularly, 3 - times the load applied to the clutch 85 (K) is applied to the clutch
    85 (YMC).      Load variations of the color developing devices are similarly
    applied to the single clutch 85 (YMC).       In order to transmit the drives without
10  deterioration of the rotational accuracy of the developing roller despite the load
    concentration and the load variations, the rigid of the clutch has to be enhanced.
    This results in upsizing of the clutch and a necessity for use of a high stiffness
   material such as a sintered metal.      On the other hand, when the clutch is
   ,provided in each of the process cartridges, the load and the load variation applied
is to each clutch is only those of the associated developing device.        Therefore, it is
   unnecessary to enhance the rigid as in the above example, and each clutch can be
    downsized.
    [0208]     Also in the gear arrangement for transmitting the driving to the black
    color process cartridge P (PK) shown in Figure 17, it is desirable to minimize the
20  load applied to the drive switching clutch 85 (K).      In the gear arrangement for
   the drive transmission to the process cartridge P, the load applied to the gear shaft
   closer to the process cartridge P is smaller in view of the drive transmission
   efficiency of the gear.    Therefore, the clutch can be downsized by providing the
   clutch between the cartridge and the main assembly, that is, in the cartridge than
25 in the case of providing the drive switching clutch in the main assembly of the
   image forming apparatus.
    [Embodiment 2]

                                                 50
   [02091      A cartridge according to a second embodiment of the present invention
   will be described.    In the description of this embodiment, the same reference
   numerals as in Embodiment 1 are assigned to the elements having the
   corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed description thereof
 5 is omitted for simplicity.    In this embodiment, a universal joint (Oldham
   coupling) is provided inside the cartridge and a rotation axis X of the developing
   unit 9 relative to the drum unit 8 is different from a rotational axis Z of a drive
   input member 274.       In the example of this embodiment, rotation axis X is offset
   from but parallel with the rotational axis Z.
10 [0210]      In this embodiment, the engaging relation between the drive input
   member 274 and the developing device-drive output member 62 of the main
   assembly is equivalent to the engaging relation between the drive inputting
   portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly in Embodiment 1.
15 [0211]      More particularly, the cartridge side drive transmission member 274
   projects outwardly of the cartridge through an opening 272f, an opening 232d and
   an opening 224e of the release cam 272.        By the engagement between the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 274 and the developing device-drive
   output member 62, the driving force (rotational force) for rotating the developing
20 roller is received from the main assembly.
   [02121      In addition, the engaging relation between the release cam 272 and the
   developing device covering member 232, and the engaging relation between the
   release cam 272, the developing device covering member 232 and the driving
   side cartridge cover member 224 are equivalent to those of Embodiment 1
25 (Figures 10, 11).
   [0213]      In addition, the structures of the drive inputting portion (drive
   transmitting portion for the photosensitive member) for receiving the driving

                                                51
   force for rotating the photosensitive drum 4 is similar to those of Embodiment 1.
   More particularly, the drive inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member is
   projected through the opening 224d.       By the engagement between the drive
   inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member and the drum-driving-force
 5 outputting member 61 (Figure 3), the driving force (rotational force) is received
   from the main assembly.
   [Structure of drive connecting portion]
   [02141     Referring to Figures 18, 19, the structure of the drive connecting
   portion of this embodiment will be described.       The drive connecting portion of
10 this embodiment comprises a spring 70, an idler gear 271 as a downstream
   member of the Oldham coupling, a middle member 42 of the Oldham coupling,
   the drive input member 274 as an upstream member of the Oldham coupling, the
   release cam 272 as a releasing member (a part of a releasing mechanism), the
   developing device covering member 232 and the driving side cartridge cover
15 member 224.      Between the bearing member 45 and the driving side cartridge
   cover member 224, the above-described drive connecting portion is provided
   from the bearing member 45 in the order named toward the driving side cartridge
   cover member 224.
    [0215]     Even when the developing unit 9 is moved between the development
20 contact state position and the spaced-developing-device state position, the driving
   force supplied from the developing unit 9 has to be assuredly transmitted to the
   developing roller 6.    At least the center line of the release cam 272 is coaxial
   with the rotation axis X, but in this embodiment, the rotation axis X of the
   developing unit 9 relative to the drum unit 8 is not coaxial with the rotational axis
25 Z of the drive input member 274.       Therefore, when the developing unit 9 moves
   between the development contact state position and the spaced-developing-device
   state position, the relative position between the drive input member 274 and the

                                                  52
   idler gear 271.     In view of this, the universal joint (Oldham coupling) through
   which the drive-transmittable is capable even if the relative positional deviation
   occurs is employed.       More specifically, in this embodiment, the drive input
   member 274, the middle member 42 and the idler gear 271 constitute the Oldham
 5 coupling.    Figure 20 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting
   portion.    Part (a) of Figure 20 illustrates a state in which the drive inputting
   portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly are engaged with each other to effect the drive
   transmission to the developing roller 6.       That is, the drive input member 74 is in
10 the first position.
   10216]      Part (b) of Figure 20 illustrates a state in which the drive inputting
   portion 274b of the drive input member 274 is disconnected from the developing
   device-drive output member 62 of the main assembly, so that the drive for the
   developing roller 6 is stopped.      That is, the drive input member 74 is in the
15 second position.
   (0217]      As will be understood from these Figures, the rotational axis of the
   idler gear 271 is coaxial with the rotation axis X.       The middle member 42 whirls
   between the rotation axis X and the rotational axis Z.        The center of the release
   cam 272 is on the rotation axis X.
20 [Drive disconnecting operation]
   [02181      Referring to Figure 7 and Figures 21 - 23, the description will be made
   as to an operation of the drive connecting portion when the developing roller 6 is
   separating from the drum 4.
   [02191      For the simplicity of the restoration, a part of the elements are shown,
25 and a part of the structure of the release cam is illustrated schematically.      In the
   Figures, an arrow M is along the rotation axis X and is oriented toward a outside
   of the cartridge, and an arrow N is along the rotation axis X and is oriented

                                                  53
   toward an inside of the cartridge.
   [State 1]
   [0220]      As shown in part (a) of Figure 7, between the spacing force urging
   member (main assembly side urging member) 80 and the urging force receiving
 5 portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a of the bearing member 45, there is a
   gap d.    Here, the drum 4 and the developing roller 6 are contacted with each
   other.    This state is called "state 1"of the spacing force urging member (main
   assembly side urging member) 80.         Figure 21 shows the structures of the drive
   connecting portion at this time.
10 [02211       In part (a) of Figure 21, the pair of the drive input member 74 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62, and the pair of the release cam 272
   with driving side cartridge cover member 224 are separately and schematically
   shown.
   [02221      Part (b) of Figure 21 is the perspective view of the drive connecting
15 portion.    In part (b) of Figure 21, as to the driving side cartridge cover member
   224, only a part including the contact portion 224b is shown, and as to the
   developing device covering member 232, only a part including the guide 232h is
   shown.      A gap e is provided between the contact portion 272a of the release cam
   272 and the contact portion 224b of the driving side cartridge cover member 224.
20 At this time, the drive input member 274 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 are engaged with each other by an engaging amount (depth) q, and in
   this state, the drive transmission is possible.     As described hereinbefore, the
   drive input member 274 is engaged with the developing roller gear 69 as a
   developing roller drive transmission member.          Therefore, the driving force
25 supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive input member 274 is transmitted
   to the developing roller gear 69 to drive the developing roller 6.       The positions
   of various parts in the state is called contacting position, and is also called a

                                                54
   drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state.        The position of the drive input
   member 274 at this time is called a first position.
   [State 2]
   [0223]      When the spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging
 5 member) 80 move in the direction of the arrow Fl in the Figure by 61 from the
   drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state, as shown in part (b) of Figure 7,
   the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K about the
   rotation axis X by the angle 01.     As a result, the developing roller 6 space is
   from the drum 4 by a distance 1. The release cam 272 and the developing
10 device covering member 232 in the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction
   indicated by the arrow K by the angle 1 in interrelation with the rotation of the
   developing unit 9.     On the other hand, when the cartridge P is mounted on the
   main assembly 2, the drum unit 8, the driving side cartridge cover member 224
   and the non-driving side cartridge cover member 225 are position and fixed to the
15 main assembly 2.      In other words, as shown in part (a) and part (b) of Figure 14,
   the contact portion 24b of the driving side cartridge cover member 24 does not
   move.     In the Figure, the release cam 272 has rotated in the direction of the
   arrow K in the Figure in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 to
   a state in which the contact portion 272a of the release cam 272 and the contact
20 portion 224b of the driving side cartridge cover member 224 start contacting to
   each other.    At this time, the drive input member 274 and the developing device
   drive output member 62 e kept in engagement with each other (part (a) of Figure
   22).   Therefore, the driving force supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive
   input member 274 is transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the
25 developing roller gear 69.     This state of various parts is called a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state.      The position of the drive input member
   274 is in the first position.

                                                55
   [State 3]
   [02241     Part (a) and part (b) of Figure 23 show the structures of the drive
   connecting portion when the spacing force urging member (main assembly side
   urging member) 80 moves in the direction indicated by the arrow F 1 in the Figure
 5 by the distance 62 from the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state, as
   shown in part (c) of Figure 7.    In interrelation with the rotation of the developing
   unit 9 by the angle 02 (>01), the release cam 272 and the developing device
   covering member 232 rotate.      On the other hand, the driving side cartridge cover
   member 224 does not move similarly to the above-described case, and the release
10 cam 272 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K in the Figure.       At this
   time, the contact portion 272a of the release cam 272 receives a reaction force
   from the contact portion 224b of the driving side cartridge cover member 224.
   In addition, as described hereinbefore, the guide groove 272h of the release cam
   272 is engaged with the guide 232h of the developing device covering member
is 232, and therefore, is movable only in the axial direction (arrow M and N
   directions) (Figure 10).   As a result, the release cam 272 makes sliding
   movement in the direction of the arrow N relative to the developing device
   covering member by movement distance p.          In addition, in interrelation with the
   movement of the release cam 272 in the direction of the arrow N, the urging
20 surface 272c which is an urging portion of the release cam 272 as the urging
   member urges the urged surface 274c of the drive input member 74.           By this, the
   drive input member 274 slides by the movement distance p in the direction of the
   arrow N against the urging force of the spring 70 (parts (b) of Figure 23 and
   Figure 12).
25 [0225]     Because the movement distance p is larger than the engagement
   amount q between the drive input member 274 and the developing device-drive
   output member 262, the engagement between the drive input member 274 and the

                                                56
   developing device-drive output member 62 is released.         As a result, the
   developing device-drive output member 62 of the main assembly 2 continues
   rotating, and on the other hand, the drive input member 274 stops.        Therefore,
   the rotations of the developing roller gear 69 and the developing roller 6 stop.
 5 This state of various parts is called a spacing position and is also called a drum
   roller-spaced-and-drive-disconnection state.
   102261      The position of the drive input member 274 at this time is called a
   second position.
    [02271     By the drive input member 274 being urged by the urging portion 272c
10 of the release cam 272 in this manner, the drive input member 274 is moved from
   the first position to the second position toward the inside of the cartridge.    On
   the other hand, the idler gear 271 moves in alignment with the rotation axis X.
   By doing so, the engagement between the drive input member 274 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are released, so that the rotational
15 force from the developing device-drive output member 62 is no longer
   transmitted to the drive input member 274.
    [02281     In the foregoing, the description has been made as to the drive
   disconnecting operation relative to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with
   the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow K.      By
20 employing the above-described structure, the developing roller 6 is capable of
   spacing from the drum 4 while rotating.       As a result, the drive to the developing
   roller 6 can be stopped depending on the space distance between the developing
   roller 6 and the drum 4.
    [Drive connecting operation]
25  [0229]     The description will be made as to the operation of the drive
   connecting portion at the time when the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
   change from the spaced state to the contacted state,      . The operation is

                                                 57
   reciprocal of the above-described operation from the contact state to the spaced
   state.
   102301      In the spaced-developing-device state (the developing unit 9 is rotated
   by the angle 02 as shown in part (c) of Figure 7), the engagement between the
 5 drive input member 274 and the developing device-drive output member 62 is
   released in the drive connecting portion, as shown in Figure 23.        That is, the
   drive input member 274 is in the second position.
    [02311     In the state that the developing unit 9 has been gradually rotated ion the
   direction of the arrow H in Figure 7 (in the direction opposite from the above
10 described arrow K direction) so that the developing unit 9 is rotated by the angle
   01 (part (b) of Figure 7 and Figure 22), the drive input member 274 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by the
   drive input member 274 moving in the direction of the arrow M by the urging
   force of the spring 70.
15  [0232]     By this, the driving force is transmitted from the main assembly 2 to
   the developing roller 6 so that the developing roller 6 is rotated.      That is, the
   drive input member 274 is in the first position.      At this time, the developing
   roller 6 and the drum 4 are kept separated from each other.
    [0233]     By further rotating the developing unit 9 gradually from this state in
20 the direction of the arrow H (Figure 7), the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
   can be contacted to each other.      Also in this state, the drive input member 274 is
   in the first position.
    [0234]     In the foregoing, the drive transmission operation to the developing
   roller 6 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction
25 of the arrow H has been described.       With the foregoing structures, the
   developing roller 6 is brought into contact to the drum 4 while rotating, and the
   drive can be transmitted to the developing roller 6 depending on the spacing

                                                  58
   distance between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.
   [02351      As described in the foregoing, wherein such structures, the switching
   between the connection and disconnection relative to the developing roller 6 can
   be effected unique depending on the angle of rotation of the developing unit 9.
 5 [02361      In the foregoing description, the contact between the contact portion
   272a of the release cam 272 and the contact portion 24b of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 224 is surface-to-surface contact, but this is not
   restrictive on the present invention.
   [02371      As described in the foregoing, the release cam 272 disposed coaxially
lo with the rotation axis X of the developing unit 9 is moved in the longitudinal
   direction (arrows M, N) in response to the contact space operations of the
   developing unit 9, similarly to Embodiment 1. In this embodiment, in
   interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9, the idler gear 271, the
   middle member 42 and the drive input member 74 move in the longitudinal
15 direction (arrows M, N).      By this, the driving connection and disconnection
   between the drive input member 274 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 can be affected.
   [Embodiment 3]
20  [02381     A cartridge according to a third embodiment of the present invention
   will be described.     In the description of this embodiment, the same reference
   numerals as in Embodiments are assigned to the elements having the
   corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed description thereof
   is omitted for simplicity.     The drive input member 374 of this embodiment is
25 movable in the axial direction inside the idler gear 371 as a cartridge side drive
   transmission member.        That is, it is unnecessary to move the idler gear 371
   engaged with the developing roller gear 69 in the axial direction as seen in the

                                                59
   foregoing embodiments, and therefore, the wearing of the idler gear 371 can be
   reduced.
   10239]     In this embodiment, the engaging relation between the drive input
   member 374 and the developing device-drive output member 62 of the main
 5 assembly is equivalent to the engaging relation between the drive inputting
   portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly in Embodiment 1. In addition, the drive
   inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member (photosensitive member drive
   transmitting portion) is similar to that in Embodiment 1. The engaging relation
10 between the drive input member 374, the release cam 372, the developing device
   covering member 232 and the driving side cartridge cover member 324 is similar
   to that of Embodiment 1 (Figures 10 and 11).
   [Structure of drive connecting portion]
   [0240]     Referring to Figures 24 and 25, the structure of the drive connecting
15 portion of this embodiment will be described.      The drive connecting portion of
   this embodiment comprises an idler gear 371 as another cartridge side drive
   transmission member, the spring 70, a drive input member 374, a release cam 372
   as a part of the releasing mechanism, a developing device covering member 332,
   and a cartridge cover member 324.       Between the bearing member 45 and the
20 driving side cartridge cover member 224, the elements of the above-described
   drive connecting portion is provided coaxially from the bearing member 45 in the
   order named toward the driving side cartridge cover member 224.        The idler
   gear 371 which is another cartridge side drive transmission member and the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 374 are engaged directly coaxially with
25 each other.    The bearing member 45 rotatably supports the idler gear 371.
   More particularly, a first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the supported

                                                 60
   portion 371p (inner surface of the cylindrical portion) of the idler gear 371
   (Figures 24, 25 and 27).     In addition, the bearing member 45 rotatably supports
   the developing roller 6.     More particularly, a second shaft receiving portion 45q
   (inner surface of the cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 rotatably
 5 supports the shaft portion 6a of the developing roller 6.      The developing roller
   gear 69 as the developing roller drive transmission member is engaged with the
   shaft portion 6a of the developing roller 6.     The outer periphery of the idler gear
   371 is formed into a gear portion 371 g for meshing engagement with the
   developing roller gear 69.     By this, the rotational force is transmitted from the
10 idler gear 371 to the developing roller 6 through the developing roller gear 69.
   [02411      Figure 26 illustrates structures of the parts constituting the idler gear
   371, the spring 70 and the drive input member 374.         Part (b) of Figure 26
   illustrates a state in which the parts are assembled.     The idler gear 371 is
   substantially cylindrical, and is provided with a guide 371a as a first guide
15 portion inside thereof.    The guide portion 371a is in the form of a shaft portion
   substantially parallel with the rotation axis X.    On the other hand, the drive input
   member 374 is provided with a hole portion 374h as a first portion-to-be-guided.
   The drive input member 374 is movable along the rotation axis X in the state that
   the hole portion 374h is engaged with the guide 371a.        In other words, the idler
20 gear 371 supports therein the drive input member 374 slidably along the
   rotational axis.    Further in other words, the drive input member 374 is slidable
   (reciprocable) in the directions of arrows M and N relative to the idler gear 371.
   By the engagement between the guide portion 371a and the hole portion 374h, the
   guide portion 371 a is capable of receiving the rotational force for rotating the
25 developing roller 6, from the drive input member 374.
   [02421      Four of such guides 371 a are provided in this embodiment, and they
   are disposed at 90 degrees intervals so as to surround the rotation axis X.

                                                  61
   Correspondingly, four of such hole portions 374h are provided at 90 degrees
   intervals so as to surround the rotation axis X.      The numbers of the guides 371a
   and the hole portions 374h are not limited to "four".       However, the members of
   the guides 371 a and the hole portions 374h are preferably plural, and they are
 5 preferably arranged about the rotation axis X at regular intervals in the
   circumferential direction.     In this case, the resultant force of the forces applied
   to the guides 371a or the hole portions 374h provides a moment tending to rotate
   the drive input member 374 and the idler gear 371 about the rotation axis X.
   Therefore, axis tilting of the drive input member 374 or the idler gear 371 relative
1o to the rotation axis X can be suppressed.
   [02431      As the drive input member 374 is seen from the drive inputting portion
   374b side in the direction in which the shaft portion of the drive input member
   374 extends, the drive inputting portion 374b is disposed at the center of the drive
   input member 374, and the plurality of the hole portions 374h are disposed
15 therearound, and the portion outside the hole portions 374h constitutes an
   portion-to-be-urged 374c of the drive inputting portion 374 which is pressed by
   the release cam 372.
   [02441      As shown in Figure 24 and Figure 25, the release cam 372 is disposed
   between the drive input member 374 and the developing device covering member
20 332.    Similarly to the first embodiment, the release cam 372 is slidable only in
   the axial direction (arrows M and N) relative to the developing device covering
   member 332 (Figure 10).        More particularly, the drive input member 374 is
   provided with a shaft portion 374x, and an end portion thereof is provided with
   the drive inputting portion 74b as a rotational force receiving portion.       The shaft
25 portion 374x penetrates an opening 372f of the release cam 372, an opening 332d
   of the developing device covering member 332 and an opening 324e of the
   driving side cartridge cover portion 324, and the drive inputting portion 374b at

                                                62
   the free end is exposed to the outside of the cartridge.   That is, the drive
   inputting portion 374b is projected outwardly of the cartridge beyond an opening
   plane of the driving side cartridge cover member 324 having the opening 324e.
    [02451    The drive inputting portion 374b is movable toward the inside of the
 5 cartridge.   By the portion-to-be-urged 374c provided in the base portion of the
   shaft portion 374x of the drive inputting portion 374 being urged by the release
   cam 372, the drive input member 374 retracts inwardly of the cartridge.       By
   doing so, the transmission and disconnection of the driving force supplied from
   the main assembly side drive transmission member 62.
10  [02461    Figure 27 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting portion.
   In a sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (a) of Figure 27,
   the drive inputting portion 374b of the drive input member 374 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are. engaged with each other.         That is,
   the drive inputting portion 374b is in the position capable of transmitting the
15 drive from the developing device-drive output member 62, and therefore, the
   drive input member 374 is in the first position.    In a sectional view of the drive
   connecting portion shown in part (b) of Figure 27, the drive inputting portion
   374b of the drive input member 374 is spaced from the developing device-drive
   output member 62.
20  [02471    That is, the drive inputting portion 374b is in the position not
   transmitting the drive from the developing device-drive output member 62, and
   therefore, the drive input member 374 is in the second position.
    [02481    As described hereinbefore, the cylindrical portion 371p of the idler
   gear 371 and the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the cylindrical
25 portion) of the bearing member 45 are engaged with each other.        In addition, the
   cylindrical portion 371q of the idler gear 371 and the inside circumference 332q
   of the developing device covering member 332 are engaged with each other.

                                                 63
   Thus, the idler gear 371 is rotatably supported by the bearing member 45 and the
   developing device covering member 332 at the opposite end portions thereof, and
   the drive input member 374 it supported slidably relative to the idler gear 371
   along the axis of the developing roller.
 5 [02491      The center of the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 and the center of the opening 332d
   provided in the inside circumference 332q of the developing device covering
   member 332 are coaxial with the rotation axis X of the developing unit 9.       That
   is, the drive input member 374 is supported rotatably about the rotation axis X of
10 the developing unit 9.
    [02501     In addition, between the idler gear 371 and the drive input member 374,
   the spring 70 which is an elastic member as an urging member is provided.         As
   schematically shown in Figure 27, the spring 70 is provided inside the idler gear
   371 and urges the drive input member 374 in the direction of the arrow M.        Thus,
15 the drive input member 374 is movable toward the inside of the idler gear 371
   against the elastic force of the spring 70.    By the drive input member 374
   moving into the idler gear 371, the coupling with the main assembly side drive
   transmission member 62 is disconnected.
    [0251]     As the drive input member 374 and the other cartridge side drive
20 transmission member (idler gear 371) are projected on a phantom line parallel
   with the rotational axis of the developing roller 6 in the state shown in Figure 27,
   a part of the drive input member 374 overlaps with at least a part of the idler gear
   371.
    [Drive disconnection and connecting operation]
25  (02521     The operation of the drive connecting portion at the time when the state
   between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4 is changed from the contact state
   to the spaced state and the operation of the drive connecting portion at the time

                                                 64
   when the state changed from the spaced state to the contact state are similar to
   those of Embodiment 1. With this structure of this embodiment, the drive input
   member 374 is movable in the axial direction (arrows M and N) inside the idler
   gear 371.     Thus, in the switching operation between the drive disconnection and
 5 the drive transmission for the developing roller 6, it is unnecessary to move the
   idler gear 371 in the axial direction relative to the developing roller gear 69.
   When the gears are helical gears, a thrust force (axial direction) is produced at the
   gear tooth surfaces in the gear drive transmitting portion.       Therefore, in the case
   of the first embodiment, a force against the thrust force it is required in order to
io move the idler gear 371 in the axial direction (arrows M or N).
    [02531     On the contrary, in this embodiment, it is unnecessary to move the idler
   gear 371 in the axial direction (arrow M or N).       It will suffice if the drive input
   member 374 is moved in the axial direction (arrows M and N) in the idler gear
   371, and as a result, the force required for moving the drive input member 374 in
is the axial direction can be reduced.
    [02541     In addition, because the drive input member 374 is provided in the
   inside circumference of the idler gear 371, the dimension of the developing unit 9
   in the longitudinal direction can be reduced.      In the axial direction, a width 374y
   of the drive input member 374, as movement space p of the drive input member
20 374 and a width 371x of the idler gear 371 are required.        By disposing at least a
   part of the width 374y of the drive input member 374 and at least a part of the
   movement space p in the width 371x of the idler gear 371, the size of the entirety
   of the developing unit 9 in the longitudinal direction can be reduced.
25  [Embodiment 4]
    [02551     A cartridge according to a fourth embodiment of the present invention
   will be described.     In the description of this embodiment, the same reference

                                                65
   numerals as in Embodiments are assigned to the elements having the
   corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed description thereof
   is omitted for simplicity.   The structure of the cartridge of this embodiment is
   different from the foregoing embodiments in the structure of the releasing
 5 mechanism.
   [Structure of drive connecting portion]
   [02561      In this embodiment, the engaging relation between the drive input
   member 374 and the developing device-drive output member 62 of the main
   assembly is equivalent to the engaging relation between the drive inputting
io portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly in Embodiment 1.            In addition, the drive
   inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member (photosensitive member drive
   transmitting portion) is similar to that in Embodiment 1. The configurations of
   the drive input member 474 and the idler gear 471 in this embodiment are similar
is to those of Embodiment 3.
   [02571      Referring to Figures 28, 29, the structures of the drive connecting
   portion of this embodiment will be described in detail.       The drive connecting
   portion of this embodiment comprises an idler gear 471 which is another
   cartridge side drive transmission member, a spring 70, a drive input member 474,
20 a release cam 472 as an operating member which is a part of the releasing
   mechanism and which is a coupling releasing member, and a developing device
   covering member 432.       Between the bearing member 45 and the driving side
   cartridge cover member 324, the above-described drive connecting portion is
   provided coaxially from the bearing member 45 in the order named toward the
25 driving side cartridge cover member 324.        The idler gear 471 and the cartridge
   side drive transmission member 474 are engaged directly and coaxially with each
   other.

                                                66
   [02581     The cartridge side drive transmission member 474 is provided with a
   shaft portion 474x and has an end portion provided with the drive inputting
   portion 474b as a rotational force receiving portion.     The shaft portion 474x
   penetrates the opening 472d of the release cam, the opening 432d of the
 5 developing device covering member 432 and the opening 424e of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 424, and the drive inputting portion 474b at the free end
   is exposed toward the outside of the cartridge.     By portion-to-be-urged 474c
   provided at the base portion of the shaft portion 474x of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 474 being urged by the urging portion 472c of the release
10 cam 472, the drive input member 474 retracts toward the inside of the cartridge.
   [02591     Figure 30 illustrates a relationship between the release cam 472 as the
   coupling releasing member and the developing device covering member 432.
   The release cam 472 has a ring portion 472j which is substantially in the form of
   a ring.   The ring portion 472j has an outer peripheral surface which functions as
15 a second portion-to-be-guided.      The outer periphery portion is provided with a
   projected portion 472i projecting from the ring portion.      In this embodiment, the
   projected portion 472i projects radially outwardly of the ring portion.     In
   addition, the developing device covering member 432 has an inner surface 432i
   functioning as a second guide portion.     The inner surface 432i is engageable
20 with the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 472.
   [0260]     The center of the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 472 and
   the center of the inner surface 432i of the developing device covering member
   432 are coaxial with the rotation axis X.     Thus, the release cam 472 slidable in
   the axial direction relative to the developing device covering member 432 and the
25 developing unit 9, and is also rotatable about the rotation axis X.
   [02611     In addition, an inside surface of the release cam 472 (the surface
   remote from the developing device covering member) is provided with an urging

                                                 67
   surface 472c as an urging portion.      By the urging surface urging the urged
   surface 474c of the drive input member 474, the drive input member 474 is
   moved toward the inside of the cartridge.
   [0262]      The ring portion 472j of the release cam 472 as the coupling releasing
 5 member is provided with a contact portion 472a as a slanted force receiving
   portion.    The developing device covering member 432 is provided with a slanted
   contact portion 432r contactable to the contact portion 472a of the release cam,
   corresponding to the contact portion 472a of the release cam.        The release cam
   472 is provided with a lever portion 472m as a projected portion projecting in the
10 direction substantially perpendicular to the rotational axis of the developing roller,
   that is, radially outwardly of the ring portion.
   [0263]      Figure 31 illustrates the structures of the drive connecting portion and
   the driving side cartridge cover member 424.        The lever portion 472m as the
   projected portion is provided with a force receiving portion 472b as the second
15 portion-to-be-guided.     The force receiving portion 472b is engaged with the
   engaging portion 424d which is a regulating portion as a part of the second guide
   portion of the driving side cartridge cover member 424 to receive the force from
   the driving side cartridge cover member 424.        The force receiving portion 472b
   projects through an opening 432c provided in a cylindrical portion 432b of the
20 developing device covering member 432 to engage with the engaging portion
   424d of the driving side cartridge cover member 424.         By the engagement
   between the engaging portion 424d and the force receiving portion 472b, the
   release cam 472 is slidable only in the axial direction (arrows M and N) relative
   to the driving side cartridge cover member 424.        Similarly to the foregoing
25 embodiments, the outside circumference 432a of the cylindrical portion 432b of
   the developing device covering member 432 is slidable relative to a supporting
   portion 424a (inner surface of the cylindrical portion) as a sliding portion of the

                                                    68
   driving side cartridge cover member 424.            Thus, the outside circumference 432a
   is rotatably connected with the supporting portion 424a as the sliding portion.
   [0264]       Here, in a drive switching operation which will be described
   hereinafter, when the release cam 472 slides in the axial direction (arrows M and
 5 N), it is likely to tilt relative to the axial direction.   If the tilting occurs, the drive
   switching property such as the driving connection and releasing operation timing
   may be deteriorated.        In order to suppress the axis tilting of the release cam 472,
   it is preferable that a sliding resistance between the outer peripheral surface of the
   release cam 472 and the inner surface 432i of the developing device covering
1o member 432 and a sliding resistance between the force receiving portion 472b of
   the release cam 472 and the engaging portion 424d of the driving side cartridge
   cover member 424 are lowered.           In addition, as shown in Figure 32, it is
   preferable to increase an engagement amount of the release cam 4172 in the axial
   direction by extending the inner surface 4132i of the developing device covering
is member 4132 and the outer peripheral surface 4172i of the release cam 4172 in
   the axial direction.
   [02651       From these aspects, the release cam 472 is engaged with both of the
   inner surface 432i of the developing device covering member 432 which is a part
   of the second guide portion and the engaging portion 424d of the driving side
20 cartridge cover member 424 which is a part of the second guide portion.              Thus,
   the release cam 472 is slidable in the axial direction (arrows M and N) and is
   rotatable in the rotational moving direction about the rotation axis X relative to
   the developing unit 9, and further is slidable relative to the drum unit 8 and the
   driving side cartridge cover member 424 fixed to the drum unit 8 only in the axial
25 direction (arrows M and N).
    [Relationship among the forces applied to the parts of the cartridge]
    [02661      The relationship among the forces applied to parts of the cartridge will

                                                69
   be described.    Part (a) of Figure 37 is an exploded perspective view of the
   cartridge P on which the forces applied to the developing unit 9 are schematically
   shown, part (b) of Figure 37 is a part of side view of the cartridge P as seen from
   the driving side along the rotation axis X.
 5 [02671     To the developing unit 9, a reaction force QI from the urging spring 95,
   a reaction force Q2 applied from the drum 4 through the developing roller 6, a
   weight Q3 and so on are applied.      In addition to these forces, during the drive
   disconnecting operation, the release cam 472 receives a reaction force Q4 as a
   result of engagement with the driving side cartridge cover member 424, as will be
10 described in detail hereinafter.   A resultant force QO of the reaction forces Q1,
   Q2, Q4 and the weight Q3 is supplied to the driving side cartridge cover member
   424 rotatably supporting the developing unit 9 and the supporting portions 424a,
   25a as the sliding portion of the non-driving side cartridge cover member 25.
   [02681     Therefore, as the cartridge P is seen in the axial direction (part (b) of
15 Figure 37), the supporting portion 424a as the sliding portion of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 424 contacting the developing device covering member
   432 it is necessary against the resultant force QO.    Therefore, the supporting
   portion 424a as the sliding portion of the driving side cartridge cover member
   424 is provided with a resultant force receiving portion for receiving the resultant
20 force QO.    The supporting portion 424a is not inevitable for the cylindrical
   portion 432b of the developing device covering member 432 and the other
   driving side cartridge cover member 424, in the other direction other than the
   direction of the resultant force QO.    In view of this in this embodiment, the
   opening 432c is provided in the cylindrical portion 432b slidable relative to the
25 driving side cartridge cover member 424 in the direction which is not the
   direction of the resultant force QO (opposite side of the resultant force QO in this
   embodiment).      The release cam 472 engaged with the engaging portion 424d

                                                70
   which is the regulating portion of the driving side cartridge cover member 424 is
   provided in the opening 432c.
   [Positional relations between developing roller, cartridge side drive transmission
   member and urging force receiving portion]
 5 [02691      As shown in part (b) of Figure 37, as the cartridge 9 is seen from the
   driving side along the rotational axis of the developing roller, the rotational axis
   6z of the developing roller 6 is disposed among the rotational axis 4z of the
   photosensitive member 4, the rotational axis of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 474 (coaxially with the rotation axis X in this embodiment)
10 and the contact portion 45b of the urging force receiving portion 45a for
   receiving the force from the main assembly side urging member 80.          That is, as
   the cartridge P is seen from the driving side along the rotational axis of the
   developing roller, the rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6 is disposed
   within a triangle constituted by three lines, namely, the lines connecting the
15 rotational axis 4z of the photosensitive member 4, the rotational axis x of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 74 and the contact portion 45b of the
   urging force receiving portion 45a.
   [02701      Figure 33 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting portion.
   [02711      The cylindrical portion 471p of the idler gear 471 (inner surface of the
20 cylindrical portion) and the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 are engaged with each other.         In
   addition, the cylindrical portion 471q (outer surface of the cylindrical portion) of
   the idler gear 471 and the inside circumference 432q of the developing device
   covering member 432 are engaged with each other.         That is, the idler gear 471 it
25 is rotatably supported by the bearing member 45 and the developing device
   covering member 432 at each of the opposite end portions.
   [02721      In addition, the shaft portion 474x of the drive input member 474 and

                                                 71
   the opening 432d of the developing device covering member 432 are engaged
   with each other.     By this, the drive input member 474 is supported slidably
   (rotatably) relative to the developing device covering member 432.
    10273]     Furthermore, the center of the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer
 5 surface of the cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 and the center of the
   opening 432d provided in the inside circumference 432q of the developing device
   covering member 432 are coaxial with the rotation axis X of the developing unit
   9.    That is, the drive input member 474 is supported rotatably about the rotation
   axis X of the developing unit 9.
10  [02741     In a sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (a) of
   Figure 33, the drive inputting portion 474b of the drive input member 474 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other.            In a
    sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (b) of Figure 33, the
    drive inputting portion 474b of the drive input member 474 is spaced from the
15  developing device-drive output member 62.
    [Drive disconnecting operation]
    [02751     Referring to Figure 7 and Figures 34 - 36, the description will be made
    as to an operation of the drive connecting portion when the developing roller 6 is
    separating from the drum 4.
20  [02761      For the simplicity of the restoration, a part of the elements are shown,
    and a part of the structure of the release cam is illustrated schematically.    In the
    Figures, an arrow M is along the rotation axis X and is oriented toward a outside
    of the cartridge, and an arrow N is along the rotation axis X and is oriented
    toward an inside of the cartridge.
25  [State 1]
    (02771      As shown in part (a) of Figure 7, between the spacing force urging
    member (main assembly side urging member) 80 and the urging force receiving

                                                  72
   portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a of the bearing member 45, there is a
   gap d.    Here, the drum 4 and the developing roller 6 are contacted with each
   other.    This state is called "state 1" of the spacing force urging member (main
   assembly side urging member) 80.          Figure 21 shows the structures of the drive
 5 connecting portion at this time.      In part (a) of Figure 21, the pair of the drive
   input member 74 and the developing device-drive output member 62, and the pair
   of the release cam 272 with cartridge cover member 224 are schematically shown.
   [02781      Part (b) of Figure 34 is a perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.    In part (b) of Figure 34, as to the developing device cover member 432,
10 only a part including the contact portion 432r is shown, and as to the developing
   device covering member 424, only a part including the engaging portion 424d is
   shown.     A gap e is provided between the contact portion 472a of the release cam
   472 and the contact portion 432r of the developing device covering member 432.
   At this time, a drive input member 474b of the drive input member 474 and the
is developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by an
   engagement amount q, and the drive transmission is enabled.           As described
   hereinbefore, the drive input member 474 is engaged with the idler gear 471
   (Figure 26).    Therefore, the driving force supplied from the main assembly 2 to
   the drive input member 474 is transmitted through the drive input member 474 to
20 the idler gear 471 and the developing roller gear 69 as the developing roller drive
   transmission member.        By this, the developing roller 6 is driven.    The position
   of various parts in the state is called a contacting position, and is also called a
   drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state.        The position of the drive
   input member 474 at this time is called a first position.
25 [State 2]
   [02791      When the spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging
   member) 80 move in the direction of the arrow F 1 in the Figure by 61 from the

                                                 73
   drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state, as shown in part (b) of Figure 7,
   the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K about the
   rotation axis X by the angle 01.     As a result, the developing roller 6 space is
   from the drum 4 by a distance F1.       The release cam 472 and the developing
 5 device covering member 432 in the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction
   indicated by the arrow K by the angle 1 in interrelation with the rotation of the
   developing unit 9.      On the other hand, the release cam 472 is assembled into the
   developing unit 9, but as shown in Figure 31, the force receiving portion 472b is
   engaged with the engaging portion 424d which is the regulating portion of the
10 driving side cartridge cover member 424.        Therefore, even if the developing unit
   9 is rotated, the position of the release cam 472 remains the same.       That is, the
   release cam 472 moves relative to the developing unit 9.        In the state shown in
   part (a) of Figure 35 and part (b) of Figure 35, the contact portion 472a of the
   release cam 472 and the contact portion 432r of the developing device covering
15 member 432 start contacting to each other.       At this time, the drive input member
   474b of the drive input member 474 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 keep in engagement with each other (part (a) of Figure 35).
   Therefore, the driving force supplied to the drive input member 474 from the
   main assembly 2 is transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the drive input
20 member 474, the idler gear 471 and the developing roller gear 69.         This state of
   various parts is called a drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state.        In the
   above-described state 1, the force receiving portion 472b is not always in contact
   with the engaging portion 424d of the driving side cartridge cover member 424.
   In other words, in the state 1, the force receiving portion 472b may be disposed
25 so as to be spaced from the engaging portion 424d of the driving side cartridge
   cover member 424.        In such a case, during the operation changing from the state
    1 to the state 2, the gap between the force receiving portion 472b and the

                                                 74
   engaging portion 424d of the driving side cartridge cover member 424 disappears
   so that the force receiving portion 472b is brought into contact with the engaging
   portion 424d of the driving side cartridge cover member 424.         The position of
   the drive input member 74 is in the first position.
 5 [State 3]
   [02801      Part (a) and part (b) of Figure 36 show the structures of the drive
   connecting portion when the spacing force urging member (main assembly side
   urging member) 80 moves in the direction indicated by the arrow F1 in the Figure
   by the distance 62 from the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state, as
10 shown in part (c) of Figure 7.     In interrelation with the rotation of the developing
   unit 9 by the angle 02 (>01 ), the developing device covering member 432 rotates.
   At this time, the contact portion 472a of the release cam 472 receives a reaction
   force from the contact portion 432r of the developing device covering member
   432.    As described hereinbefore, the movement of the release cam 472 is limited
15 to that in the axial direction (arrows M and N) by the engagement of the force
   receiving portion 472b thereof with the engaging portion 424d of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 424.        As a result, the release cam 472 slides on the
   direction of the arrow N through a movement distance p.         In addition, in
   interrelation with the movement of the release cam 472 in the direction of the
20 arrow N, the urging surface 472c which is an urging portion of the release cam
   472 as the urging member urges the urged surface 474c of the drive input
   member 74.      By this, the drive input member 474 slides by the movement
   distance p in the direction of the arrow N against the urging force of the spring 70
   (parts (b) of Figure 36 and Figure 33).
25 [02811      At this time, the movement distance p is larger than the engagement
   amount q between the drive input member 474b of the drive input member 474
   and the developing device-drive output member 62, and therefore, the drive input

                                                 75
   member 474 and the developing device-drive output member 62 are disengaged
   from each other.     With this operation, the developing device-drive output
   member 62 continues to rotate, and on the other hand, the drive input member
   474 stops.    As a result, the rotations of the idler gear 471, the developing roller
 5 gear 69 and the developing roller 6 stop.      This state of various parts is called a
   spacing position and is also called a drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-disconnection
   state.   The position of the drive input member 74 at this time is called a second
   position.
   [02821      By the drive input member 474 being urged by the urging portion 472c
10 of the release cam 472 in this manner, the drive input member 474 is moved from
   the first position to the second position toward the inside of the cartridge.      By
   doing so, the engagement between the drive input member 474 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are released, so that the rotational
   force from the developing device-drive output member 62 is no longer
is transmitted to the drive input member 474.
   [02831      In the foregoing, the description has been made as to the drive
   disconnecting operation relative to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with
   the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow K.      With the
   foregoing structures, the developing roller 6 can be spaced from the drum 4 while
20 rotating, and the drive can be disconnected depending on the spacing distance
   between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.
   [Drive connecting operation].
   102841      The description will be made as to the operation of the drive
   connecting portion at the time when the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
25 change from the spaced state to the contacted state,      . The operation is
   reciprocal of the above-described operation from the contact state to the spaced
   state.

                                                 76
   [0285]     In the spaced-developing-device state (the developing unit 9 is rotated
   by the angle 02 as shown in part (c) of Figure 7), the engagement between the
   drive input member 474 and the developing device-drive output member 62 is
   released in the drive connecting portion, as shown in Figure 36.        That is, the
 5 drive input member 74 is in the second position.
   [0286]     In the state that the developing unit 9 has been gradually rotated ion the
   direction of the arrow H in Figure 7 (in the direction opposite from the above
   described arrow K direction) so that the developing unit 9 is rotated by the angle
   01 (part (b) of Figure 7 and Figure 35), the drive input member 474b of the drive
10 input member 474 and the developing device-drive output member 62 are
   engaged with each other by the drive input member 74 moving in the direction of
   the arrow M by the urging force of the spring 70.       By this, the driving force is
   transmitted from the main assembly 2 to the developing roller 6 so that the
   developing roller 6 is rotated.    That is, the drive input member 74 is in the first
15 position.    At this time, the developing roller 6 and the drum 4 are kept separated
   from each other.
   [02871     By further rotating the developing unit 9 gradually from this state in
   the direction of the arrow H (Figure 7), the drive input member 474 moves from
   the second position to the first position, and the developing roller 6 and the drum
20 4 can be contacted to each other.     In the foregoing, the drive transmission
   operation to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with the rotation of the
   developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow H has been described.        With the
   foregoing structures, the developing roller 6 is brought into contact to the drum 4
   while rotating, and the drive can be transmitted to the developing roller 6
25 depending on the spacing distance between the developing roller 6 and the drum
   4.
   [02881      In this example, the force receiving portion 472b of the release cam

                                                77
   472 is engaged with the engaging portion 424d which is the regulating portion of
   the driving side cartridge cover member 424, but this is not inevitable, and may
   be engaged with a cleaner container 26.
   [02891     In the case of this embodiment, the release cam 472 is provided with
 5 the contact portion 472a, and the developing device covering member 432 is
   provided with the contact portion 432r as an operating portion contactable to the
   contact portion 472a.    In addition, the force receiving portion 472b engageable
   with the drum unit 8 is projected from the opening 432c provided in a part of the
   cylindrical portion 432b of the developing device covering member 432.
10 Therefore, the latitude of arrangement of the force receiving portion 472b and the
   engaging portion 424d as a part of the second guide portion actable thereon is
   enhanced.    More specifically, as shown in Figure 11, it is unnecessary to provide
   the operating member 24b through another opening 32j of the developing device
   covering member 32.
15 [Modified examples]
   [02901     In the foregoing, the description has been made with respect to process
   cartridge detachably mountable to an image forming apparatus, but the cartridge
   may be a developing cartridge D detachably mountable to an image forming
   apparatus.   Part (a) of Figure 39 is an exploded view of various parts provided at
20 the driving side end portion of the developing cartridge D, and In the description
   of this embodiment, the same reference numerals as in the foregoing
   embodiments are assigned to the elements having the corresponding functions in
   this embodiment, and the detailed description thereof is omitted for simplicity.
   [02911     The release cam 72 as the coupling releasing member is provided with
25 a force receiving portion 72u for receiving a force in the direction of an arrow F2
   from a main assembly of the image forming apparatus.        When the release cam
   72 receives the force from the main assembly of the image forming apparatus in

                                                78
   the direction of the arrow F2, it rotates in the direction of the arrow H about the
   rotation axis X.    Similarly to the foregoing, the contact portion 72p as the force
   receiving portion provided on the release cam 72 receives a reaction force from
   the contact portion 32r (unshown) of the developing device covering member 32.
 5 By this, the release cam 72 moves in the direction of the arrow N.      With the
   movement of the release cam 72, the drive input member 74 is urged by the
   release cam 72 to move along the axis X toward the inside of the cartridge.       As a
   result, the engagement between the drive input member 74 and the developing
   device-drive output member 62 a broken so that the rotation of the developing
10 roller 6 stops.
   [02921      When the drive is to be transmitted to the developing roller 6, the
   release cam 72 is moved in the ejection of the arrow M to engage the drive input
   member 74 with the developing device-drive output member 62.           At this time,
   the force in the ejection of the arrow F2 to the release cam 72 is removed, and
15 therefore, the release cam 72 is moved in the direction of the arrow M by the
   reaction force of the spring 70.    As described in the foregoing, the drive
   transmission to the developing roller 6 can be reached even in the state that the
   developing roller 6 is always in contact with the drum 4.
   [02931      As shown in part (b) of Figure 39, as the cartridge 9 is seen from the
20 driving side on the rotational axis of the developing roller, the rotational axis 6z
   of the developing roller 6 is disposed between the rotational axis of the cartridge
   side drive transmission member 74 (co-axial wherein the rotation axis X in this
   embodiment) and the urging force receiving portion 72u which is the force
   receiving portion.    The urging force receiving portion 72u and the rotational axis
25 (X) of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 is disposed in the same
   side with respect to the rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6.
   [0294]      More particularly, a line connecting the contact portion 72b at which

                                                79
   the urging force receiving portion 72u contacts to the main assembly side urging
   member 80 and the rotational axis 6z of the cartridge side drive transmission
   member 74 and a line connecting the rotational axis 6z of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 74 and the rotational axis of the cartridge side drive
 5 transmission member 74, cross with each other.        As the cartridge 9 is seen along
   the rotational axis of the developing roller, a line connecting the contact portion
   72p and the rotational axis of the cartridge side drive transmission member 74
   passes through the developing roller 6.
    [02951    In the above-described structure, the developing cartridge D is taken,
10 but the cartridge is not limited to such a cartridge, and the cartridge may be
   process cartridge P including a drum.     The structures of this embodiment is
   applicable to the structure in which the drive transmission to the developing roller
   is switched in the state that the developing roller 6 is in contact with the drum 4
   in the process cartridge P.
15  [0296]    In the foregoing description, when the electrostatic latent image on the
   drum 4 is developed, the developing roller 6 is in contact with the drum 4
   (contact-type developing system), but the developing system is not limited to
   these examples.     The present invention is applicable to a non-contact type
   developing system in which the electrostatic latent image on the drum 4 is
20 developed with a space kept between the drum 4 and the developing roller 6.         As
   described in the foregoing, the cartridge detachably mountable to the image
   forming apparatus may be a process cartridge P including the drum, or may be a
   developing cartridge D.
25 [Embodiment 5]
   [0297]     A cartridge according to a fifth embodiment of the present invention
   will be described.    In the description of this embodiment, the same reference

                                                 80
    numerals as in the foregoing Embodiments are assigned to the elements having
    the corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed description
    thereof is omitted for simplicity.   In this embodiment, the structure of the
    covering member is different from that of the foregoing embodiments.
  5 [Structure of developing unit]
    [0298]     As shown in Figure 40 - 43, the developing unit 9 comprises the
    developing roller 6, the developing blade 31, the developing device frame 29 and
    the bearing member 45.
    [02991     As shown in Figure 40, the bearing member 45 is fixed to one
10  longitudinal end portion of the developing device frame 29.      The bearing
    member 45 rotatably supports the developing roller 6.       The developing roller 6
    is provided with a developing roller gear 69 as a developing roller drive
    transmission member at the longitudinal end portion.
    [0300]      To a driving side cartridge cover member 524, another bearing member
is  35 is fixed (Figure 43).    Between the bearing member 35 and the driving side
    cartridge cover member 524, there are provided an idler gear 571, an idler gear
    571 as a drive connecting portion, for transmitting the driving force to the
    developing roller gear 69.
    [03011      The bearing member 35 rotatably supports the idler gear 571 for
20  transmitting the driving force to the developing roller gear 69.    An opening 524e
    is provided in the driving side cartridge cover member 524.      Through the
    opening 524e, a drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574 is
    exposed and projected to the outside of the cartridge.     When the cartridge P is
    mounted to the main assembly 2, the drive inputting portion 574b is engaged with
25  a developing device-drive output member 62 (62Y, 62M, 62C, 62K) shown in
    part (b) of Figure 3 so that a driving force is transmitted from the driving motor
    (unshown).     That is, the drive input member 574 functions as an input coupling

                                               81
   for the development.    The driving force supplied from the main assembly 2 to
   the drive input member 574 is transmitted through the idler gear 571 to the
   developing roller gear 69 and the developing roller 6.     Figure 42 and Figure 43
   are perspective views illustrating the developing unit 9, a drum unit 8 and the
 5 driving side cartridge cover member 524 to which the bearing member 35 is fixed.
   As shown in Figure 43, the bearing member 35 is fixed to the driving side
   cartridge cover member 524.       The bearing member 35 is provided with a
   supporting portion 35a. On the other hand, the developing device frame 29 is
   provided with a rotation hole 29c (Figure 42).     When the developing unit 9 and
10 the drum unit 8 are assembled with each other, the rotation hole 29c of the
   developing device frame 29 is engaged with the supporting portion 35a of the
   bearing member 35 at one longitudinal end portion side of the developing unit 9.
   In the other longitudinal end portion side of the cartridge P, a projection 29b
   projected from the developing device frame 29 is engaged with a supporting hole
15 portion 25a of the non-driving side cartridge cover member.        By this, the
   developing unit 9 is rotatably supported by the drum unit 8.      In this case, the
   rotation axis X which is a rotational center of the rotation of the developing unit 9
   relative to the drum unit 8 is a line connecting the center of the supporting portion
   35a of the bearing member 35 and the center of the supporting hole portion 25a
20 of the non-driving side cartridge cover member 25.
   [Structure of drive connecting portion]
    [0302]     In this embodiment, the engaging relation between the drive input
   member 574 and the developing device-drive output member 62 of the main
   assembly is equivalent to the engaging relation between the drive inputting
25 portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly in Embodiment 1. In addition, the drive
   inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member (photosensitive member drive

                                                 82
   transmitting portion) is similar to that in Embodiment 1. The configurations of
   the drive input member 374 and the idler gear 471 in this embodiment are similar
   to those of Embodiment 3.
   103031     Referring to Figures 40 and 41, the structure of the drive connecting
 5 portion will be described in detail.    The drive connecting portion of this
   embodiment comprises the bearing member 45 fixed to one longitudinal end
   portion of the developing device frame 29, the idler gear 571 which is another
   cartridge side drive transmission member, a spring 70, the drive input member
   574, a release cam 572 as a releasing member which is a part of a releasing
10 mechanism, and the driving side cartridge cover member 524.         Between the
   bearing member 35 and the driving side cartridge cover member 524, the
   elements of the drive connecting portion are coaxially provided in the order
   named from the bearing member 35 to the driving side cartridge cover member
   524.    The idler gear 371 and the cartridge side drive transmission member 374
15 are engaged directly and coaxially with each other.
    [03041    The bearing member 35 rotatably supports the idler gear 571.       More
   particularly, the first shaft receiving portion 35p of the bearing member 35 (outer
   surface of the cylindrical portion) rotatably supports the supported portion 571p
   of the idler gear 571 (inner surface of the cylindrical portion).
20  [03051    The cartridge side drive transmission member 574 is provided with a
   shaft portion 574x and has an end portion provided with the drive inputting
   portion 574b as a rotational force receiving portion.     The shaft portion 574x
   penetrates an opening 572d of a release cam, the opening 524e of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 524, and the drive inputting portion 574b at the free end
25 is exposed toward the outside of the cartridge.     By portion-to-be-urged 574c
   provided at the base portion of the shaft portion 574x of the cartridge side drive
   transmission member 574 being urged by the urging portion 572c of the release

                                                 83
   cam 572, the drive input member 574 retracts toward the inside of the cartridge.
                (releasing mechanism)
   [03061     Figure 44 shows a relationship between the release cam 572 as a
   coupling releasing member in the driving side cartridge cover member 524. The
 5 release cam 572 has a ring portion 572j which is substantially in the form of a
   ring.   The ring portion 572j has an outer peripheral surface which functions as a
   second portion-to-be-guided.      The outer periphery portion is provided with a
   projected portion 572i projecting from the ring portion.       In this embodiment, the
   projected portion 572i projects radially outwardly of the ring portion.      The
10 driving side cartridge cover member 524 has an inner surface 524i as a part of a
   second guide portion.     The inner surface 532i is engageable with the outer
   peripheral surface of the release cam 572.
   [03071     The center of the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 572 and
   the center of the inner surface 524i of the driving side cartridge cover member
is 524 are coaxial with the rotation axis X.      Thus, the release cam 572 it supported
   so as to be slidable along the axial direction relative to the driving side cartridge
   cover member 524 and the developing unit 9 and to be rotatable in the rotational
   moving direction about the rotation axis X.
   [0308]     An inner surface of the release cam 572 (the surface remote from the
20 driving side cartridge cover member) is provided with an urging surface 572c as
   an urging portion.     By the urging surface urging the urged surface 574c of the
   drive input member 574, the drive input member 574 is moved toward the inside
   of the cartridge.
   [0309]     In addition, the release cam 572 as the coupling releasing member is
25 provided with a contact portion 572a having a slanted surface, as a force
   receiving portion.     The driving side cartridge cover member 524 is provided
   with a contact portion 524b having a slanted surface contactable to the contact

                                                84
   portion 572a of the release cam.      The release cam 572 is provided with a lever
   portion 572m as a projected portion projecting in the direction substantially
   perpendicular to the rotational axis of the developing roller, that is, radially
   outwardly of the ring portion.
 5 (03101      Figure 45 illustrates the drive connecting portion, the driving side
   cartridge cover member 524 and the bearing member 45.           Bearing member 45 is
   provided with an engaging portion 45d which is a regulating portion as a part of
   the second guide portion.      The engaging portion 45d is engaged with a force
   receiving portion 572b as the second portion-to-be-guided of the release cam 572,
10 the force receiving portion 572b is retained between the driving side cartridge
   cover member 524 and the bearing member 35.           By the engagement between the
   engaging portion 45d and the force receiving portion 572b, the release cam 572 is
   in capable of moving about the rotation axis X relative to the bearing member 45
   and the developing unit 9.
15 [0311]      Figure 46 is a sectional view of the drive connecting portion.
   [0312]      A cylindrical portion 571p of the idler gear 571 and the first shaft
   receiving portion 35p (outer surface of the cylindrical) of the bearing member 35
   are engaged with each other.      In addition, a cylindrical portion 571q of the idler
   gear 571 and an inside circumference 524q of the driving side cartridge cover
20 member 524 are engaged with each other.         Thus, the idler gear 571 is rotatably
   supported by the bearing member 35 and in the driving side cartridge cover
   member 524 at the opposite end portions thereof.
   [0313]      In addition, by the engagement between the shaft portion 574x of the
   drive input member 574 and the opening 524e of the driving side cartridge cover
25 member 524, the drive input member 574 is supported so as to be rotatable
   relative to the driving side cartridge cover member 524.
   [03141      Father more, the first shaft receiving portion 35p (outer surface of the

                                                85
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 35, the center of the inside
   circumference 524q of the driving side cartridge cover member 524 and the
   center of the opening 524e are coaxial with the rotation axis X of the developing
   unit 9.   That is, the drive input member 574 is supported rotatably about the
 5 rotation axis X of the developing unit 9.
   10315]     In a sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (a) of
   Figure 46, the drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other.            That is,
   the drive input member 574 is in a first position.
10 [0316]     In a sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (b) of
   Figure 46, the drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574 is
   spaced from the developing device-drive output member 62.          That is, the drive
   input member 574 is in a second position.
   [Drive disconnecting operation]
15 [0317]     Referring to Figure 7 and Figures 47 - 49, the description will be made
   as to an operation of the drive connecting portion when the developing roller 6 is
   separating from the drum 4.
   [03181     For the simplicity of the restoration, a part of the elements are shown,
   and a part of the structure of the release cam is illustrated schematically.    In the
20 Figures, an arrow M is along the rotation axis X and is oriented toward a outside
   of the cartridge, and an arrow N is along the rotation axis X and is oriented
   toward an inside of the cartridge.
   [State I]
   103191     As shown in part (a) of Figure 7, between the spacing force urging
25 member (main assembly side urging member) 80 and the urging force receiving
   portion (spacing force receiving portion) 45a of the bearing member 45, there is a
   gap d.   Here, the drum 4 and the developing roller 6 are contacted with each

                                                  86
   other.   This state is called "state 1" of the spacing force urging member (main
   assembly side urging member) 80.          Figure 47 shows the structures of the drive
   connecting portion at this time.      In part (a) of Figure 47, the pair of the drive
   input member 574 and the developing device-drive output member 62, and the
 5 pair of the release cam 572 with driving side cartridge cover member 524 are
   separately and schematically shown.
    [03201     Part (b) of Figure 47 is the perspective view of the drive connecting
   portion.    In part (b) of Figure 47, only a part of the driving side cartridge cover
   member 524 including the contact portion 524b is shown, and only a part of the
10 bearing member 45 including the engaging portion 45d as the regulating portion.
   A gap e is provided between the contact portion 572a of the release cam 572 and
   the contact portion 524b of the driving side cartridge cover member 524.           At this
   time, the drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by an
15 engagement amount q so that the drive transmission is enabled.           As described
   hereinbefore, the drive input member 574 is engaged with the idler gear 571
   (Figure 26).    The driving force supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive
   input member 574 is transmitted to the developing roller gear 69 through the idler
   gear 571.    By this, the developing roller 6 is driven.     The position of various
20 parts in the state is called a contacting position, and is also called a development
   contact drive transmission state.      The position of the drive input member 574 at
   this time is called a first position.
   [State 2]
   [03211      When the spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging
25 member) 80 move in the direction of the arrow F1 in the Figure by 61 from the
   drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state, as shown in part (b) of Figure 7,
   the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K about the

                                                 87
   rotation axis X by the angle 01.     As a result, the developing roller 6 space is
   from the drum 4 by a distance 01.      The bearing member 45 in the developing
   unit 9 rotates in the direction of the arrow K by the angle 01 in interrelation with
   the rotation of the developing unit 9.     On the other hand, the release cam 572 is
 5 provided in the drum unit 8, but the force receiving portion 572b is engaged with
   the engaging portion 45d of the bearing member 45, as shown in Figure 45.
   Therefore, the release cam 572 rotates in the direction of the arrow K in the drum
   unit 8 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9.     Part (a) and
   part (b) of Figure 48 shows a state in which the contact portion 572a of the
10 release cam 572 and the contact portion 524b of the driving side cartridge cover
   member 524 start to contact with each other.       At this time, the drive inputting
   portion 574b of the drive input member 574 and the developing device-drive
   output member 62 keep engagement therebetween.             Therefore, the driving force
   supplied to the drive input member 574 from the main assembly 2 is transmitted
15 to the developing roller 6 through the drive input member 574, the idler gear 571
   and the developing roller gear 69.      This state of various parts is called a drum
   roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state.       The position of the drive input
   member 574 is in the first position.
   [State 3)
20 [03221      Part (a) and part (b) of Figure 49 show the structures of the drive
   connecting portion when the spacing force urging member (main assembly side
   urging member) 80 moves in the direction indicated by the arrow F1 in the Figure
   by the distance 62 from the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-transmission state, as
   shown in part (c) of Figure 7.     The bearing member 45 rotates in interrelation
25 with the rotation of the developing unit 9 by the angle 02.      At this time, the
   contact portion 572a of the release cam 572 receives a reaction force from the
   contact portion 524b of the driving side cartridge cover member 524.          As

                                                 88
   described hereinbefore, the force receiving portion 572b of the release cam 572 is
   engaged with the engaging portion 45d of the bearing member 45 so that it is
   movable only in the axial direction (arrows M and N) relative to the developing
   unit 9 (Figure 45).    As a result, the release cam 572 slides on the direction of the
 5 arrow N through a movement distance p.          In addition, in interrelation with the
   movement of the release cam 572 in the direction of the arrow N, the urging
   surface 572c which is an urging portion of the release cam 572 as the urging
   member urges the urged surface 574c of the drive input member 574. By this,
   the drive input member 574 slides in the direction of the arrow N against the
1o urging force of the spring 70 by the movement distance p.
   [03231      At this time, the movement distance p is larger than the engagement
   amount q between the drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574
   and the developing device-drive output member 62, and therefore, the
   engagement between the drive input member 574 and the developing device
15 drive output member 62 is released.       With this operation, the developing device
   drive output member 62 continues to rotate, and on the other hand, the drive input
   member 574 stops.       As a result, the rotations of the idler gear 571, the
   developing roller gear 69 and the developing roller 6 stop.        This state of various
   parts is called a spacing position and is also called a drum-roller-spaced-and
20 drive-disconnection state.
   103241      In the foregoing, the description has been made as to the drive
   disconnecting operation relative to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with
   the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow K.       With the
   foregoing structures, the developing roller 6 can be spaced from the drum 4 while
25 rotating, and the drive can be disconnected depending on the spacing distance
   between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.         The position of the drive input
   member 574 at this time is called a second position.        In this manner, by the drive

                                                89
   input member 574 is urged by the urging portion 572c of the release cam 572, the
   drive input member 574 moves from the first position to the second position
   along the rotation axis X toward the inside of the cartridge.     By doing so, the
   engagement between the drive input member 574 and the developing device
 5 drive output member 62 are released, so that the rotational force from the
   developing device-drive output member 62 is no longer transmitted to the drive
   input member 74.
   [Drive connecting operation]
   [03251     The description will be made as to the operation of the drive
10 connecting portion at the time when the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
   change from the spaced state to the contacted state,     .   The operation is
   reciprocal of the above-described operation from the contact state to the spaced
   state.
   [03261     In the spaced-developing-device state (the developing unit 9 has
15 rotated by the angle 02 as shown in part (c) of Figure 7), the drive connecting
   portion it such that the engagement between the drive inputting portion 574b of
   the drive input member 574 and the developing device-drive output member 62 is
   released as shown in Figure 49.     That is, the drive input member 74 is in the
   second position.
20 [03271     In the state in which the developing unit 9 has been gradually rotated
   from the above state in the direction of the arrow H (opposite the direction of the
   arrow K) shown in Figure 7 by the angle 01 (shown in part (b) of Figure 7 and
   Figure 48), drive inputting portion 574b of the drive input member 574 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other by the
25 movement of the drive input member 574 in the direction of the arrow M by the
   urging force of the spring 70.    By this, the driving force is transmitted from the
   main assembly 2 to the developing roller 6 so that the developing roller 6 is

                                                   90
   rotated.    That is, the drive input member 74 is in the first position.    At this time,
   the developing roller 6 and the drum 4 are kept separated from each other.
   [0328]      By further rotating the developing unit 9 gradually from this state in
   the direction of the arrow H (Figure 7), the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
 5 can be contacted to each other.       Also in this state, the drive input member 574 is
   in the first position.
   [03291      In the foregoing, the drive transmission operation to the developing
   roller 6 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction
   of the arrow H has been described.         With the foregoing structures, the
10 developing roller 6 is brought into contact to the drum 4 while rotating, and the
   drive can be transmitted to the developing roller 6 depending on the spacing
   distance between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.
   [03301       In the foregoing, the force receiving portion 572b of the release cam
   572 is engaged with the engaging portion 45d which is the regulating portion of
15 the bearing member 45, but this is not inevitable, and it may be engaged with the
   developing device frame 29, for example.           The drive input member 574 may be
   provided in the drum unit 8 as in this embodiment.
   [Embodiment 6]
20 [0331]      A cartridge according to a sixth embodiment of the present invention
   will be described.      In the description of this embodiment, the same reference.
   numerals as in the foregoing Embodiments are assigned to the elements having
   the corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed description
   thereof is omitted for simplicity.      In this embodiment, a release cam 672 and a
25 release lever 73 are used in combination.
   [Structure of developing unit]
   [03321      As shown in Figures 50 and 51, the developing unit 9 comprises the

                                                 91
   developing roller 6, the developing blade 31, the developing device frame 29, the
   bearing member 45 and a developing device covering member 632.
   [0333]     As shown in Figure 50, the bearing member 45 is fixed to one
   longitudinal end portion of the developing device frame 29.       The bearing
 5 member 45 rotatably supports the developing roller 6.       The developing roller 6
   is provided with a developing roller gear 69 as a developing roller drive
   transmission member at the longitudinal end portion.       The bearing member 45
   rotatably supports an idler gear 671 for transmitting a driving force to the
   developing roller gear 69.
10 [03341      In addition, as a drive connecting portion, a drive input member 674
   for transmitting the driving force to the idler gear 671 is provided.
   [0335]      The developing device covering member 632 is fixed to an outside of
   the bearing member 45 with respect to the longitudinal direction of the cartridge
   P.    The developing device covering member 632 covers the developing roller
15 gear 69, the idler gear 671 and a drive transmission member 674.        As shown in
   Figures 50 and 51, the developing device covering member 632 is provided with
   a cylindrical portion 632b.     Through an opening 632d of an inside of the
   cylindrical portion 632b, a drive inputting portion 674b of the drive transmission
   member 674 is exposed and projected to the outside of the cartridge.        When the
20 cartridge P (PY, PM, PC, PK) is mounted to the main assembly 2,-the drive
   inputting portion (cartridge side drive transmission member) 674b is engaged
   with a developing device-drive output member 62 (62Y, 62M, 62C, 62K) which
    is a main assembly side drive transmission member shown in part (b) of Figure 3,
   and the driving force is transmitted from a driving motor (unshown) provided in
25 the main assembly 2.      That is, the drive transmission member 674 functions as
   an input coupling for developing operation.       Therefore, the driving force
    supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive transmission member 674 is

                                                92
   transmitted to the developing roller gear 69 and the developing roller 6 through
   the idler gear 671.    The structure of the drive connecting portion will be
   described hereinafter.
   [Assembling of drum unit and developing unit]
 5 [0336]      As shown in Figures 52 and 53, when the developing unit 9 and the
   drum unit 8 are assembled, an outside circumference 632a of the cylindrical
   portion 632b of the developing device covering member 632 is engaged with a
   supporting portion 624a as a sliding portion of the driving side cartridge cover
   member 624 at one end portion side of the cartridge P.       At the other end portion
10 side of the cartridge P, a projection 29b projected from the developing device
   frame 29 is engaged with a supporting hole portion 25a of the non-driving side
   cartridge cover member.       By this, the developing unit 9 is rotatably supported by
   the drum unit 8.     A rotational center of the developing unit 9 relative to the drum
   unit is a rotation axis X. The rotation axis X is a line connecting the center of
15 the supporting portion 624a and the center of the supporting portion 25a.
    [Structure of drive connecting portion]
    [03371     In this embodiment, the engaging relation between the drive input
   member 674 and the developing device-drive output member 62 of the main
   assembly is equivalent to the engaging relation between the drive inputting
20 portion 74b of the drive input member 74 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 of the main assembly in Embodiment 1. In addition, the drive
   inputting portion 4a for the photosensitive member (photosensitive member drive
   transmitting portion) is similar to that in Embodiment 1. The configurations of
   the drive input member 374 and the idler gear 471 are equivalent to those of
25 Embodiment 3 or Embodiment 4.
    [0338]     Referring to Figures 50 and 51, the structure of the drive connecting
   portion will be described in detail.     The drive connecting portion of this

                                                93
   embodiment comprises an idler gear 671 as another cartridge side drive
   transmission member, a spring 70 which is an elastic member (urging member),
   the drive input member 674, the release cam 672, the release lever 73, the
   developing device covering member 632 and the driving side cartridge cover
 5 member 624.      Between the bearing member 45 and the driving side cartridge
   cover member 624, the above-described amendments of the drive connecting
   portion is provided coaxially from the bearing member 45 in the order named
   toward the driving side cartridge cover member 224.        The idler gear 671 and the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 674 are engaged directly and coaxially
1o with each other.     The release lever 73 is a rotatable member rotatable relative to
   the bearing member 45 which is a part of a developing device frame.
    103391     The cartridge side drive transmission member 674 is provided with a
   shaft portion 674x and has an end portion provided with the drive inputting
   portion 674b as a rotational force receiving portion.     It is penetrated through an
15 opening 672d of a release cam, an opening 73d of the release lever 73, the
   opening 632d of the developing device covering member 632 and an opening
   624e of the driving side cartridge cover member 624, and the drive inputting
   portion 674b at the free end thereof is exposed toward the outside of the cartridge.
   By portion-to-be-urged 674c provided at the base portion of the shaft portion
20  674x of the cartridge side drive transmission member 674 being urged by the
   urging portion 672c of the release cam 672, the drive input member 674 retracts
   toward the inside of the cartridge.
    [0340]     The bearing member 45 rotatably supports the idler gear 671.        More
   particularly, the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the cylindrical
25 portion) of the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the supported portion 671p
    (inner surface of the cylindrical portion) of the idler gear 671 (Figures 50 and 51).
   In addition, the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the developing roller 6.

                                                94
   More particularly, a second shaft receiving portion 45q (inner surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 rotatably supports the shaft portion
   6a of the developing roller 6.    And, the developing roller gear 69 is engaged
   with the shaft portion 6a of the developing roller 6.    The outer periphery of the
 5 idler gear 671 is formed into a gear portion 671 g for meshing engagement with
   the developing roller gear 69.    By this, the rotational force is transmitted from
   the idler gear 671 to the developing roller 6 through the developing roller gear 69.
   [Releasing mechanism]
   [03411     A drive disconnecting mechanism we've be described
10 [03421     As shown in Figures 50 and 51, between the drive input member 674
   and the developing device-drive output member 62, the release cam 672 as a
   coupling releasing member which is a part of the releasing mechanism.         As
   described in the above, the release cam 672 is provided with a ring portion 672j
   having a substantially ring configuration.     The ring portion 672j has an outer
15 periphery, that is, an outer peripheral surface.   The outer periphery portion is
   provided with a projected portion 672i projecting from the ring portion.       In this
   embodiment, the projected portion 672i projects in the direction along the
   rotational axis of the developing roller.    The developing device covering
   member 632 has an inner surface 632i (Figure 51).        The inner surface 632i is
20 engaged with the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 672.       By this, the
   release cam 672 is slidable relative to the developing device covering member
   632 in the direction parallel with the axis of the developing roller 6.
   [0343]     In addition, the developing device covering member 632 is provided
   with a guide 632h as a second guide portion, and the release cam 672 is provided
25 with a guide groove 672h as a second portion-to-be-guided.         Here, the guide
   632h and the guide groove 672h extend in the direction parallel with the axial
   direction (arrows M and N).

                                                  95
   [0344]     The guide 632h of the developing device covering member 632 is
   engaged with the guide groove 672h of the release cam 672.          Because of
   disengagement between the guide 632h and the guide groove 672h, the release
   cam 672 is slidable only in the axial directions (arrows M and N) relative to the
 5 developing device covering member 632.           The arrow M is the direction toward
   the outside of the cartridge, and the arrow N is the direction toward the inside of
   the cartridge.
   [0345]     Figure 54 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting portion.
   [03461     The cylindrical portion 671p (outer surface of the cylindrical portion)
10 of the idler gear 671 and the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer surface of the
   cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45 are engaged with each other. In
   addition, the cylindrical portion 371q of the idler gear 671 and the inside
   circumference 632q of the developing device covering member 632 are engaged
   with each other.     That is, the idler gear 671 it is rotatably supported by the
15 bearing member 45 and the developing device covering member 632 at each of
   the opposite end portions.
   [03471      In addition, the center of the first shaft receiving portion 45p (outer
   surface of the cylindrical portion) of the bearing member 45, the center of the
   inside circumference 632q of the developing device covering member 632, and
20 the center of the hole portion 632p are coaxial with the rotation axis X of the
   developing unit 9.     This, the drive transmission member 674 it supported so as
   to be rotatable about the rotation axis X of the developing unit 9.
   [0348]      Part (a) of Figure 54 is a schematic sectional view of the drive
   connecting portion in which the drive inputting portion 674b of the drive input
25 member 674 and the developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with
   each other.    That is, the drive input member 674 is in the first position.    Part (b)
   of Figure 54 is a schematic sectional view of the drive connecting portion in

                                                96
   which the drive inputting portion 674b of the drive input member 674 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are disengaged from each other.
   That is, the drive input member 674 is in the second position.       Here, at least one
   of the release lever 73 is disposed between the drive input member 674 and the
 5 developing device-drive output member 62.
   [03491     Figure 55 illustrating the structures of the release cam 672 and the
   release lever 73 as the rotatable member.      The release cam 672 as the coupling
   releasing member includes a contact portion 672a as a force receiving portion
   (portion-to-be-urged) and a cylindrical inner surface 672e.      The contact portion
10 672a is slanted relative to the rotation axis X (parallel with the rotational axis of
   the developing roller 6).     The release lever 73 includes a contact portion 73a as
   another urging portion and an outer peripheral surface 73e.       The contact portion
   73a is slanted relative to the rotation axis X.
   [03501     The contact portion 73a of the release lever 73 is contactable to the
15 contact portion 672a of the release cam 672.       The cylindrical inner surface 672e
   of the release cam 672 and the outer peripheral surface 73e of the release lever 73
   are slidably engaged with each other.      The rotational axes of the outer peripheral
   surfaces of the release cam 672, the cylindrical inner surface 672e, and the outer
   peripheral surface 73e of the release lever 73 are coaxial with each other.      As
20 described hereinbefore, the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 672 is
   engaged with the inner surface 632i of the developing device covering member
   632.    The center of the outer peripheral surface of the release cam 672, the
   center of the inner surface 632i of the developing device covering member 632
   are coaxial with the rotation axis X.    That is, the release lever 73 it supported
25 through the release cam 672 and the developing device covering member 632 so
   as to be rotatable relative to the developing unit 9 (developing device frame 29)
   about the rotation axis X.

                                                 97
   [03511     The release lever 73 as the rotatable member is provided with a ring
   portion 73j having a substantially ring-like configuration.      The ring portion 73j
   has the contact portion 73a and the outer peripheral surface 73e.       The release
   lever is provided with a lever portion 73m as a projected portion projected from
 5 the ring portion 73j radially outwardly of the ring portion 73j (in the direction
   substantially perpendicular to the rotational axis of the developing roller.
   103521      Figure 56 illustrates the structures of the drive connecting portion and
   the driving side cartridge cover member 624.        The force receiving portion 73b of
   the release lever 73 engages with the engaging portion 624d which is a regulating
10 portion of the driving side cartridge cover member 624 to receive the force from
   the driving side cartridge cover member 624 (a part of a photosensitive member
   frame).    The force receiving portion 73b is projected through the opening 632c
   provided in a part of the cylindrical portion 632b of the developing device
   covering member 632 and is engaged with the engaging portion 624d which is
15 the regulating portion of the driving side cartridge cover member 624.        By the
   engagement between the engaging portion 624d and the force receiving portion
   73b, the release lever 73 is prevented from a relative movement about the rotation
   axis X relative to the driving side cartridge cover member 624.
    [Relationship among the forces applied to the parts of the cartridge]
20  [03531     The relationship among the forces applied to parts of the cartridge will
   be described.    Part (a) of Figure 60 is a perspective view of the cartridge P in
   which the forces applied to the developing unit 9 a schematically shown, and part
   (b) of Figure 60 is a side view of a part of the cartridge P as seen from the driving
   side along the rotation axis X.
25  [03541     To the developing unit 9, a reaction force QI from the urging spring 95,
   a reaction force Q2 applied from the drum 4 through the developing roller 6, a
   weight Q3 and so on are applied.       In addition, in the drive disconnecting

                                                98
   operation, the release lever 73 is engaged with the driving side cartridge cover
   member 624 and receives a reaction force Q4, as will be described hereinafter in
   detail.   A resultant force QO of the reaction forces Q1, Q2, Q4 and the weight
   Q3 is supplied to the driving side cartridge cover member 624 rotatably
 5 supporting the developing unit 9 and the supporting portions 624a, 625a as the
   sliding portion of the non-driving side cartridge cover member 625.
   [0355]      Therefore, as the cartridge P is seen in the axial direction (part (b) of
   Figure 16), the supporting portion 624a as the sliding portion of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 624 contacting the developing device covering member
10 632 it is necessary against the resultant force QO.    The supporting portion 624a
   is not inevitable for the cylindrical portion 632b of the developing device
   covering member 632 and the other driving side cartridge cover member 624, in
   the other direction other than the direction of the resultant force QO.    In view of
   this, in this embodiment, the opening 632c is provided in the cylindrical portion
15 632b slidable relative to the driving side cartridge cover member 624 of the
   developing device covering member 632 and is open in the direction different
   from the direction of the resultant force QO.    In addition, the release lever 73
   engaging with the engaging portion 624d which is the regulating portion of the
   driving side cartridge cover member 624 is provided in the opening 632c.
20 [0356]      As shown in part (b) of Figure 60, the positional relationship between
   the rotational axis 4z of the photosensitive member 4, the rotational axis of the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 674, the contact portion 45p of the
   urging force receiving portion 45a receiving the force from the main assembly
   side urging member 80, and the rotational axis 6z of the developing roller 6 is the
25 same as the relationship described in conjunction with part (b) of Figure 37.
   [Drive disconnecting operation]
   [0357]       Referring to Figure 7 and Figures 55 - 59, the description will be made

                                                  99
   as to an operation of the drive connecting portion when the developing roller 6 is
   separating from the drum 4.
   [03581     For the simplicity of the restoration, a part of the elements are shown,
   and a part of the structure of the release cam is illustrated schematically.      In the
 5 Figures, an arrow M is along the rotation axis X and is oriented toward a outside
   of the cartridge, and an arrow N is along the rotation axis X and is oriented
   toward an inside of the cartridge.
   [State 1]
   [03591     As shown in part (a) of Figure 7, there is provided a gap d between the
10 spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging member) 80 and the
   urging force receiving portion 45a of the bearing member 45.          Here, the drum 4
   and the developing roller 6 are contacted with each other.        This state is called
   "state 1" of the spacing force urging member (main assembly side urging
   member) 80.      The structure of the drive connecting portion at this time is
15 schematically shown in part (a) of Figure 57.       In part (a) of Figure 57, the pair of
   the drive transmission member 674 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62, and the pair of the release cam 672 and the release lever 73 are
   separately shown.
   103601     Part (b) of Figure 57 is the perspective view of the drive connecting
20 portion.   In part (b) of Figure 57, only a part, including the guide 632h, of the
   developing device covering member 632 is shown.           There is provided a gap e
   between the contact portion 672a of the release cam 672 and the contact portion
   73a of the release lever 73.    In the state, the drive inputting portion 74b of the
   drive input member 674 and the developing device-drive output member 62 are
25 engaged with each other by an engagement amount q so that the drive
   transmission is enabled.    As described hereinbefore, the drive input member 674
   is engaged with the idler gear 671 (Figure 26).       Therefore, the driving force

                                                100
   supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive transmission member 674 is
   transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the idler gear 671 and the
   developing roller gear 69.      The position of various parts in the state is called a
   contacting position, and is also called a drum-roller-spaced-and-drive
 5 transmission state.      The position of the drive input member 674 at this time is
   called a first position
    [State 2]
    [03611     When (main assembly side urging member of) the spacing force urging
   member 80 move in the direction of an arrow Fl by 61 (part (b) of Figure 7) from
10 the position of the drum-roller-contact-and-drive-transmission state, the
   developing unit 9 rotates in the direction of an arrow K about the rotation axis X
   by an angle 01.      As a result, the developing roller 6 space is from the drum 4 by
   a distance c1.     The release cam 672 and the developing device covering member
   632 in the developing unit 9 rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K by
15 the angle 1 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9.       On the
   hand, the release lever 73 is provided in the developing unit 9, but the force
   receiving portion 73b is engaged with the engaging portion 624d of the driving
   side cartridge cover member 624, as shown in Figure 56.          Therefore, the force
   receiving portion 73b does not move in the reaction with the rotation developing
20 unit 9.    That is, the release lever 73 receives a reaction force from the engaging
   portion 624d of the driving side cartridge cover member 624 than that of rotate
   relative to the developing unit 9.     The structure of the drive connecting portion
   at this time is schematically shown in part (a) of Figure 58.      Part (b) of Figure 58
   is the perspective view of the drive connecting portion.       In the state shown in
25 this Figure, the release cam 672 has rotated in the direction indicated by the
   arrow K in the Figure in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 so
   that the contact portion 672a of the release cam 672 and the contact portion 73a

                                                101
   of the release lever 73 start contact to each other.    At this time, the drive
   inputting portion 674b of the drive input member 674 and the developing device
   drive output member 62 keep engagement therebetween.             Therefore, the driving
   force supplied from the main assembly 2 to the drive transmission member 674 is
 5 transmitted to the developing roller 6 through the idler gear 671 and the
   developing roller gear 69.     This state of various parts is called a drum-roller
   spaced-and-drive-transmission state.       In the above-described state 1, the force
   receiving portion 73b is not always in contact with the engaging portion 624d of
   the driving side cartridge cover member 624.        In other words, in the state 1, the
1o force receiving portion 73b may be disposed so as to be spaced from the engaging
   portion 624d of the driving side cartridge cover member 624.         In such a case,
   during the operation changing from the state 1 to the state 2, the gap between the
   force receiving portion 672b and the engaging portion 624d of the driving side
   cartridge cover member 624 disappears so that the force receiving portion 73b is
15 brought into contact with the engaging portion 624d of the driving side cartridge
   cover member 624.       The position of the drive input member 674 is in the first
   position.
   [State 3]
   103621      Figure 59 shows the structure of the drive connecting portion at the
20 time when the spacing force urging member 80 (main assembly side urging
   member) moves from the position of the drum-roller-spaced-and-drive
   transmission state in the direction indicated by the arrow F 1 in the Figure by 62
   (part (c) of Figure 7).   In interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9
   by the angle 02 (>01), the release cam 672 and the developing device covering
25 member 632 rotate.      On the other hand, the position of the release lever 73
   remains in the same as in the case described above, and the release cam 672
   rotates in the direction indicated by the arrow K in the Figure.      At this time, the

                                                102
   contact portion 672a of the release cam 672 receives a reaction force from the
   contact portion 73a of the release lever 73.      In addition, as described
   hereinbefore, the guide groove 72h of the release cam 672 is engaged with the
   guide 632h of the developing device covering member 632, and therefore, is
 5 movable only in the axial direction (arrow M and N directions) (Figure 10).           As
   a result, the release cam 672 slides on the direction of the arrow N through a
   movement distance p.        In interrelation with the movement of the release cam
   672 in the direction of the arrow N, an urging surface 672c as the urging portion
   of the urges an urged surface 674c as the portion-to-be-urged of the drive input
lo member 674.       By this, the drive input member 674 slides in the direction of the
   arrow N against the urging force of the spring 70 by the movement distance p.
   At this time, the movement distance p is larger than the engagement amount q
   between the drive inputting portion 6574b of the drive input member 674 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62, and therefore, the engagement
15 between the drive input member 674 and the developing device-drive output
   member 62 is released.       With this operation, the developing device-drive output
   member 62 continues to rotate, and on the other hand, the drive input member
   6474 stops.     As a result, the rotations of the idler gear 671, the developing roller
   gear 69 and the developing roller 6 stop.       This state of various parts is called a
20 spacing position and is also called a drum-roller-spaced-and-drive-disconnection
   state.   The position of the drive input member 674 at this time is called a second
   position.
   103631      By the drive input member 674 being urged by the urging portion 672c
   of the release cam 672 in this manner, the drive input member 674 is moved from
25 the first position to the second position toward the inside of the cartridge.       By
   doing so, the engagement between the drive input member 674 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are released, so that the rotational

                                               103
   force from the developing device-drive output member 62 is no longer
   transmitted to the drive input member 674.
   [03641      In the foregoing, the description has been made as to the drive
   disconnecting operation relative to the developing roller 6 in interrelation with
 5 the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction of the arrow K.      With the
   foregoing structures, the developing roller 6 can be spaced from the drum 4 while
   rotating, and the drive can be disconnected depending on the spacing distance
   between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.
   [Drive connecting operation]
10 [03651     The description will be made as to the operation of the drive
   connecting portion at the time when the developing roller 6 and the drum 4
   change from the spaced state to the contacted state,      . The operation is
   reciprocal of the above-described operation from the contact state to the spaced
   state.
15 [03661     In the spaced-developing-device state (the developing unit 9 has
   rotated by the angle 02 as shown in part (c) of Figure 7), the drive connecting
   portion it such that the engagement between the drive inputting portion 674b of
   the drive input member 674 and the developing device-drive output member 62 is
   released as shown in Figure 59.      That is, the drive input member 674 is in the
20 second position.
   [03671     In the state (part (b) of Figure 7 and Figure 58) that the developing unit
   9 is gradually rotated from the above-described the state in the direction indicated
   by an arrow H (opposite to the direction of arrow K), by which the developing
   unit 9 rotates by the end 01, the drive input member 674 move in the direction
25 indicated by the arrow M by the urging force of the spring 70.        By this, the drive
   inputting portion 74b of the drive input member 674 and the developing device
   drive output member 62 contact to each other.        By this, the driving force is

                                                 104
   transmitted from the main assembly 2 to the developing roller 6 so that the
   developing roller 6 is rotated.     That is, the drive input member 674 is in the first
   position.    At this time, the developing roller 6 and the drum 4 are kept separated
   from each other.
 5 [03681      By further rotating the developing unit 9 gradually from this state in
   the direction of the arrow H (Figure 7), the drive input member 674 moves from
   the second position to the first position, and the developing roller 6 and the drum
   4 can be contacted to each other.
   [03691      In the foregoing, the drive transmission operation to the developing
1o roller 6 in interrelation with the rotation of the developing unit 9 in the direction
   of the arrow H has been described.         With the foregoing structures, the
   developing roller 6 is brought into contact to the drum 4 while rotating, and the
   drive can be transmitted to the developing roller 6 depending on the spacing
   distance between the developing roller 6 and the drum 4.
15  [0370]     As described in the foregoing, wherein such structures, the switching
   between the connection and disconnection relative to the developing roller 6 can
   be effected unique depending on the angle of rotation of the developing unit 9.
    [0371]     In the foregoing description, the contact portion 672a of the release
   cam and the contact portion 73a of the release lever 73 are in surface contact each
20 other, but this is not inevitable.    For example, the contact may be between a
   surface and a ridge, between a surface and a point, between a ridge and a ridge, or
   between a ridge and a point.       In this example, the force receiving portion 73b of
   the release lever 73 is engaged with the engaging portion 624d which is the
   regulating portion of the driving side cartridge cover member 624, but this is not
25 inevitable, and it may be engaged with a cleaner container 26.
    103721     According to this embodiment, the developing unit 9 comprises the
   release lever 73 and the release cam 672.        The release lever 73 is rotatable about

                                               105
   the rotation axis X relative to the developing unit 9 and is not slidable in the
   direction of axial direction M or N.     On the other hand, the release cam 672 is
   slidable in the axial direction M and N relative to the developing unit 9, but is not
   rotatable about the rotation axis X.    That is, there is no part which makes three
 5 dimensional relative movement (rotation about the rotation axis X and sliding in
   the axial direction M and N) relative to the developing unit 9.     That is, the
   moving directions of the parts are assigned to the release lever 73 and the release
   cam 672 (function division).      By this, the movements of the parts are two
   dimensional, and therefore, the operations are standardized.       As a result, the
10 drive transmission operation to the developing roller 6 interrelated with the
   rotation of the developing unit 9 can be effected smoothly.
    [03731     In this embodiment, the release lever 73 is also an urging mechanism
   in addition to the release cam 672 in this slidably supported by the shaft portion
   674x of the drive input member 674.        In this embodiment, in the drive
15 disconnecting operation, the contact portion 672a at the force receiving portion of
   the release cam 672 first contacts the contact portion 73a of the release lever 73.
   Subsequently, the drive input member 674 retracts into the cartridge with the
   movement of the release cam 672 in the direction of the arrow N, by which it is
   disconnected from the main assembly side drive transmission member 62.
20  [03741     In addition, in Figure 50, by the engagement between the outer
   peripheral surface 73e of the release lever 73 and the cylindrical inner surface
   672e of the release cam 672 as the coupling releasing member, the release lever
   73 and the release cam 672 are positioned in place.
    [03751     However, this is not inevitable, and the structure shown in Figure 61
25 maybe employed, for example.        In other words, the outer peripheral surface 73e
   of the release lever 73 is supported so as to be slidable on an inner surface 632q
   of the developing device covering member 632, and a cylindrical inner surface

                                              106
   672i of the release cam 672 it supported so as to be slidable on the inner surface
   632q of the developing device covering member 632.
   [Embodiment 7]
 5 [03761     A cartridge according to a seventh embodiment of the present
   invention will be described.    In the description of this embodiment, the same
   reference numerals as in the foregoing Embodiments are assigned to the elements
   having the corresponding functions in this embodiment, and the detailed
   description thereof is omitted for simplicity.    In this embodiment is similar to
10 the sixth embodiment.      The difference that their from is in that, as shown in a
   schematic sectional view (Figure 62), the lever portion of the release lever 73 is
   projected through an opening formed by a developing device covering member
   732 and a driving side cartridge cover member 724.
   [03771     Figure 62 is a sectional view of a drive connecting portion as seen in
15 the direction perpendicular to a rotation axis X.
   [03781     In a sectional view of the drive connecting portion shown in part (a) of
   Figure 62, the drive inputting portion 774b of the drive input member 774 and the
   developing device-drive output member 62 are engaged with each other.           That is,
   the drive input member 774 is in the first position.     In a sectional view of the
20 drive connecting portion shown in part (b) of Figure 62, the drive inputting
   portion 774b of the drive input member 774 is spaced from the developing
   device-drive output member 62.       That is, the drive input member 774 is in the
   second position.
   [03791     The release lever 73 is within the range of the thickness (measured in
25 the direction along the rotation axis X) of a cylindrical portion 732b which is a
   sliding portion of the developing device covering member 732, as seen in the
   direction perpendicular to the rotation axis X.     The cylindrical portion 732b is a

                                               107
   sliding portion of the developing device covering member 732 when the
   developing device covering member slides relative to the driving side cartridge
   cover member 724.       That is, the release lever 73 is within a sliding range 724e in
   which the developing device covering member 732 slides on the driving side
 5 cartridge cover member 724, with respect to the direction of the rotation axis X.
   [03801      Follow more, the release lever 73 is projected through an opening 732c
   provided in a part of the cylindrical portion 732b of the developing device
   covering member 732.
   [03811      The positional relationship between the release lever 73, the opening
10 through which the release lever projects, the developing cartridge, the drive
   inputting portion, the photosensitive member is the same as that in Embodiment 6
   (Figure 60).
   [03821      Here, in the drive disconnecting operation, the release lever 73 receives
   a reaction force Q4, as described hereinbefore (Figure 60).        A force receiving
15 portion 73b of the release lever 73 for receiving the reaction force is provided
   within the sliding range 724e of the supporting portion 724a as the sliding portion
   where the developing unit 9 slides on the driving side cartridge cover member
   724.    The release lever 73 it supported within the sliding range 724e of the
   supporting portion 724a as the sliding portion where the developing unit 9 slides
20 on the driving side cartridge cover member 724.        That is, the reaction force Q4
   is received by the release lever 73 without deviation in the rotation axis X
   direction by the driving side cartridge cover member 724.         Therefore, according
   to this embodiment, the deformation of the developing device covering member
   732 can be suppressed.      Because the deformation of the developing device
25 covering member 732 is suppressed, the rotation of the developing unit 9 about
   the rotation axis X relative to the driving side cartridge cover member 724 can be
   stabilized.   In addition, the release lever 73 is provided within the range 724e of

                                               108
   the supporting portion 724a as the sliding portion when the developing unit 9
   slides on the driving side cartridge cover member 724, with respect to the
   direction of the rotation axis X, and therefore, the drive connecting portion and
   the process cartridge can be downsized.
 5 [03831      In the cartridge according to the foregoing embodiments, the clutch for
   effecting transmission and disconnection of the rotational force from the main
   assembly of the image forming apparatus to the cartridge is established at the
   interface portion.    The interface portion is the portion where the cartridge
   contacts the main assembly when the cartridge is mounted to the main assembly
10 of the image forming apparatus.      In the foregoing embodiments, the cartridge
   side drive transmission member 74 which is an interface portion of the cartridge
   side is capable of advancing and retracting in a direction toward the inside of the
   cartridge.    With such a structure, the cartridge side drive transmission member
   74 provided at the longitudinal end portion of the cartridge functions as a clutch.
15 [03841      The coupling releasing member 72 in the foregoing embodiments is an
   urging mechanism for urging the cartridge side drive transmission member 74,
   and the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 is moved in the direction
   toward the inside of the cartridge by the coupling releasing member 72.       By this
   operation, the coupling between the drive input member 74 and the developing
20 device-drive output member 62 is disconnected.        Four the force urging the
   cartridge side drive transmission member 74, a external force received by the
   urging force receiving portion 45a provided in the cartridge may be used.
   [03851      In the case of a process cartridge comprising the photosensitive
   member and the developing roller, the above-described clutch operation may be
25 interrelated with the space operation between the photosensitive member and the
   developing roller.     More particularly, when the developing unit 9 is rotated
   relative to the drum unit 8 so that the developing roller spaces from the

                                              109
   photosensitive member, the rotation causes cartridge side drive transmission
   member 74 to retract inwardly.      When the developing unit 9 rotates back relative
   to the drum unit 8 to contact the developing roller to the photosensitive member,
   the rotation causes the cartridge side drive transmission member 74 to projected
 5 outwardly.
   [03861     In the foregoing embodiments, the drive input member 74 includes the
   portion-to-be-urged having the urged surface 74c in the shaft portion 74x having
   a free end functioning as the drive inputting portion 74b.    The release cam 72
   and the release lever 73 are provided between the portion-to-be-urged 74c of the
1o drive input member 74 and the drive inputting portion 74b at the free end of the
   drive input member 74.      More particularly, the shaft portion 74x of the drive
   input member 74 is slidable so as to penetrate the opening of the release cam 72
   or the release lever.
   [0387]      In the drive disconnecting operation, the urging surface 72c as the
15 urging portion of the release cam 72 urges the urged surface 74c as the portion
   to-be-urged of the drive input member 74, by which the drive input member 74
   retracts inwardly of the cartridge.
    [03881     In addition, the urging surface 72c as the urging portion of the release
   cam 72 and the urged surface 74c as the portion-to-be-urged of the drive input
20 member 74 has the surfaces substantially perpendicular to the rotational axis of
   the developing roller.     However, the urging portion 72c of the release cam 72
   and the urged surface 74c as of the portion-to-be-urged of the drive input member
   74 need not be both surfaces.     As long as the release cam 72 is capable of urging
   the drive input member 74, a surface, a ridge and a point can be used in
25 combination.
    [0389]     While the present invention has been described with reference to
   exemplary embodiments, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to

                                            110
   the disclosed exemplary embodiments.      The scope of the following claims is to
   be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications
   and equivalent structures and functions.
 5  [INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY]
    [0390]    According to the present invention, a cartridge, a process cartridge and
   an electrophotographic image forming apparatus in which the drive switching for
   the developing roller can be effected assuredly.
10

                                                  111
CLAIMS:
                    1. A process cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said process
cartridge comprising:
                    (i) a rotatable photosensitive member;
                    (ii) a rotatable developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed
on said photosensitive member, said developing roller being capable of contacting to and spacing
from said photosensitive member;
                    (iii) an urging force receiving portion configured to receive an urging force for
spacing said developing roller from said photosensitive member;
                    (iv) a drive input member configured to receive a rotational force for rotating
said developing roller from an outside of said process cartridge; and
                    (v) an urging member capable of moving said drive input member inwardly of
said process cartridge in response to reception of the urging force by said urging force receiving
portion.
                     2. A process cartridge according to Claim 1, further comprising a frame
provided at a longitudinal end portion of said process cartridge, said frame being provided with
an opening, wherein said drive input member is movable between a first position in which an end
portion of said drive input member project through said opening beyond an outside plane of said
opening and a second position in which said driving input member is retracted from the first
position inwardly of said process cartridge.
                      3. A process cartridge according to Claim 2, wherein in the second position,
the end portion of said drive input member is retracted from an outside surface of said frame
inwardly of said process cartridge
                       4. A process cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of an
electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said process cartridge comprising:
                    a photosensitive member;
                    a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive
member;
                    a developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
photosensitive member;
                    a developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing roller, said

                                                  112
developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame such that said
developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame between a
contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive member and a
spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from said photosensitive member;
                    a cartridge side drive transmission member capable of coupling with a main
assembly side drive transmission member provided in said main assembly and configured to
receive, from the main assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating
said developing roller, said cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable about a
rotation axis about which said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive
member frame; and
                    a releasing mechanism for releasing said cartridge side drive transmission
member from the main assembly side drive transmission member, with rotation of said
developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
                      5. A process cartridge according to Claim 4 wherein said cartridge side drive
transmission member is movable between (i) a first position in which said cartridge side drive
transmission member is capable coupling with the main assembly side drive transmission
member, and the rotational force is capable of being transmitted from the main assembly side
drive transmission member, and (ii) a second position which is remote from the first position
inwardly of said process cartridge, and in which said cartridge side drive transmission member is
decoupled from the main assembly side drive transmission member, and the rotational force is
not transmitted from the main assembly side drive transmission member
                      6. A process cartridge according to Claim 4 or 5, wherein said releasing
mechanism moves said cartridge side drive transmission member along the rotation axis with
rotation of said developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
                       7. A process cartridge according to any one of Claims 4 - 6, wherein said
releasing mechanism is provided with a guide portion configured to move said cartridge side
drive transmission member along the rotation axis.
                       8. A process cartridge according to Claim 7, further comprising a cartridge
side drive transmission element capable of transmitting the rotational force received by said
cartridge side drive transmission member to said developing roller, said cartridge side drive

                                                   113
transmission element being provided with the guide portion.
                      9. A process cartridge according to any one of Claims 4 - 8, wherein said
releasing mechanism includes a decoupling member movable in parallel with the rotation axis,
wherein said decoupling member urges said cartridge side drive transmission member inwardly
of said process cartridge with rotation of said developing device frame from the contacting
position to the spacing position.
                      10. A process cartridge according to Claim 9, wherein said releasing
mechanism is provided with a guiding element configured to move said decoupling member
along the rotation axis.
                      11. A process cartridge according to Claim 10, wherein the guiding element
is provided on said developing device frame.
                      12. A process cartridge according to any one of Claims 9 - 11, wherein said
releasing mechanism is provided with an urging member configured to urge said decoupling
member with the rotation of said developing device frame from the contacting position to the
spacing position.
                      13. A process cartridge according to Claim 12, wherein said urging member
is movably provided on said developing device frame and is movable relative to said developing
device frame by receiving a force from said photosensitive member frame with rotation of the
developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
                      14. A process cartridge according to Claim 13, wherein said urging member
is rotatable about the rotation axis relative to said developing device frame.
                      15. A process cartridge according to Claim 12, wherein said urging member
is provided on said photosensitive member frame.
                      16. A process cartridge according to Claim 15, wherein said urging member
is fixed to said photosensitive member frame.

                                                  114
                      17. A process cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said
process cartridge comprising:
                    (i) a rotatable photosensitive member;
                    (ii) a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive
member;
                    (iii) a developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
photosensitive member;
                    (iv) a developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing roller,
said developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame such that said
developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame between a
contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive member and a
spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from said photosensitive member;
                    (v) a drive input member for receiving a rotational force for rotating said
developing roller from an outside of said process cartridge, said drive input member being
rotatable about a rotation axis about with said developing device frame rotates relative to said
photosensitive member frame; and
                    (vi) an urging mechanism capable of moving said drive input member
inwardly of said process cartridge with the rotation of said developing device frame from the
contacting position to the spacing position.
                      18. A process cartridge according to Claim 17, said developing device frame
being provided with an opening, wherein said drive input member is movable between a first
position in which an end portion of said drive input member project through said opening beyond
an outside plane of said opening and a second position in which said driving input member is
retracted from the first position inwardly of said process cartridge.
                      19. A process cartridge according to Claim 18, wherein in the second
position, the end portion of said drive input member is retracted from an outside surface of said
developing device frame inwardly of said process cartridge.
                      20. An electrophotographic image forming apparatus for forming a image on
a recording material, said apparatus comprising:
                    (i) a main assembly of the electrophotographic image forming apparatus, said
main assembly including a main assembly side drive transmission member for transmitting a

                                                    115
rotational force;
                    (ii) a process cartridge detachably mountable to said main assembly, said
process cartridge including,
                    (ii-i) a photosensitive member,
                    (ii-ii) a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive
member,
                    (ii-iii) a developing roller configured to develop a latent image formed on said
photosensitive member,
                    (ii-iv) a developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing roller,
said developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame such that said
developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame between a
contacting position in which said developing roller contacts said photosensitive member and a
spacing position in which said developing roller is spaced from said photosensitive member,
                    (ii-v) a cartridge side drive transmission member capable of coupling with the
main assembly side drive transmission member and configured to receive, from the main
assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating said developing roller,
said cartridge side drive transmission member being rotatable about a rotation axis about which
said developing device frame is rotatable relative to said photosensitive member frame, and
                    (ii-vi) a releasing mechanism for releasing said cartridge side drive
transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission member, with rotation of
said developing device frame from the contacting position to the spacing position.
                      21. A cartridge detachably mountable to a main assembly of the
electrophotographic image forming apparatus, the main assembly including a main assembly
side drive transmission member and a main assembly side urging member, said cartridge
comprising:
                    (i) rotatable developing roller;
                    (ii) a cartridge side drive transmission member capable of the coupling with
the main assembly side drive transmission member and configured to receive, from the main
assembly side drive transmission member, a rotational force for rotating said developing roller;
                    (iii) an urging force receiving portion configured to receive an urging force
from the main assembly side urging member; and
                    (iv) a decoupling member capable of decoupling said cartridge side drive
transmission member from the main assembly side drive transmission member in response to

                                                   116
reception of the urging force by said urging force receiving portion,
                     wherein when said cartridge is seen along a rotational axis of said developing
roller, said developing roller is disposed between said cartridge side drive transmission member
and said urging force receiving portion.
                       22. A cartridge according to Claim 21, wherein said cartridge side drive
transmission member is movable between (i) a first position in which said cartridge side drive
transmission member is capable coupling with the main assembly side drive transmission
member, and the rotational force is capable of being transmitted from the main assembly side
drive transmission member, and (ii) a second position which is remote from the first position
inwardly of said cartridge, and in which said cartridge side drive transmission member is
decoupled from the main assembly side drive transmission member, and the rotational force is
not transmitted from the main assembly side drive transmission member
                       23. A cartridge according to Claim 21 or 22, further comprising a rotatable
photosensitive member on which the latent image to be developed by said developing roller is
formed, and wherein when said cartridge is seen along the rotational axis of said developing
roller, the rotational axis of said developing roller is disposed among a rotational axis of said
cartridge side drive transmission member, said urging force receiving portion and a rotational
axis of said photosensitive member.
                       24. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 - 23, wherein said
decoupling member includes (i) a force receiving portion for receiving a force so as to move said
cartridge side drive transmission member inwardly of said cartridge, and (ii) an urging portion
capable of urging said cartridge side drive transmission member by the force received by said
force receiving portion.
                       25. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 - 24, wherein said
decoupling member is movable substantially in parallel with the rotational axis of said
developing roller.
                       26. A cartridge according to Claim 25, further comprising a guide portion
configured to guide a portion-to-be-guided of said decoupling member to move said decoupling
member substantially in parallel with the rotational axis of said developing roller.

                                                 117
                      27. A cartridge according to Claim 26, wherein said guide portion and said
portion-to-be-guided are substantially parallel with the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                      28. A cartridge according to Claim 26 or Claims 27, further comprising a
cartridge frame provided with said guide portion.
                      29. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 22 - 28, wherein by said
decoupling member moving substantially parallel with the rotational axis of said developing
roller, said cartridge side drive transmission member is moved substantially parallel with the
rotational axis of said developing roller by said urging portion of said decoupling member.
                      30. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 - 29, wherein said
decoupling member and said cartridge side drive transmission member are projected on a
phantom line parallel with the rotational axis of said developing roller, at least a part of a range
of said decoupling member overlaps at least a part of a range of said cartridge side drive
transmission member.
                      31. A cartridge according to Claim 30, wherein when said decoupling
member and said cartridge side drive transmission member are projected on the phantom line,
the range of said decoupling member is within the range of cartridge side drive transmission
member.
                      32. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 - 31, further comprising a
cartridge side drive transmission element capable of transmitting the rotational force received by
said cartridge side drive transmission member to said developing roller.
                      33. A cartridge according to Claim 32, wherein when said cartridge side
drive transmission member and said cartridge side drive transmission element are projected on a
phantom line parallel with the rotational axis of said developing roller, a part of a range of said
cartridge side drive transmission member overlaps at least a part of a range of said cartridge side
drive transmission element.
                      34. A cartridge according to Claim 32 or 33, wherein said cartridge side
drive transmission element and said cartridge side drive transmission member are directly and
coaxially engaged with each other.

                                                   118
                      35. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 32 - 34, further comprising a
developing roller drive transmission member configured to transmit the rotational force received
from said cartridge side drive transmission element to said developing roller.
                      36. A cartridge according Claim 35, wherein said developing roller drive
transmission member movably supports said cartridges side drive transmission element so as to
permit movement of said cartridges side drive transmission element inwardly of said cartridge.
                      37. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 - 36, further comprising a
developing roller drive transmission member configured to transmit the rotational force received
from said cartridge side drive transmission member to said developing roller.
                      38. A cartridge according to Claim 37, wherein said developing roller drive
transmission member rotatably supports said cartridge side drive transmission member so as to
permit movement of said cartridge side drive transmission member inwardly of said cartridge.
                      39. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 32 - 35, wherein said
cartridge side drive transmission element has a substantially cylindrical shape, and said cartridge
side drive transmission member is reciprocable along a rotational axis thereof inside said
cartridge side drive transmission element.
                      40. A cartridge according to Claim 39, wherein said cartridge side drive
transmission element is provided with a shaft portion extending in parallel with the rotational
axis thereof, and said cartridge side drive transmission member is provided with a hole portion,
and wherein said cartridge side drive transmission member is reciprocable along said shaft
portion in a state that said shaft portion is engaged with said hole portion.
                      41. A cartridge according to Claim 40, wherein said cartridges side drive
transmission element receives the rotational force from said cartridge side drive transmission
member through the engagement between said shaft portion and said hole portion.
                      42. A cartridge according to Claim 40 or 41, wherein a plurality of such
shaft portions are provided around the rotational axis of said cartridge side drive transmission
element, and a plurality of such hole portions are provided around the rotational axis of said
cartridge side drive transmission member, and wherein said cartridge side drive transmission

                                                 119
member is reciprocable along said shaft portion in a state that said shaft portions are engaged
with said hole portions.
                      43. A cartridge according to Claim 40, further comprising an elastic member
provided between said cartridge side drive transmission member and said cartridges side drive
transmission element.
                      44. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 39 - 43, wherein said
cartridge side drive transmission element is provided around an outer periphery thereof with a
gear portion configured to transmit the rotational force to said developing roller.
                      45. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 24 - 44, further comprising a
developing device frame rotatably supporting said developing roller, a rotatable member
rotatable relative to said developing device frame, wherein said rotatable member is provided
with an urging element for applying a force to said force receiving portion by rotation thereof.
                      46. A cartridge according to Claim 45, wherein said force receiving portion
and said urging element are slanted relative to the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                      47. A cartridge according to Claim 46, wherein said force receiving portion
and said urging element are contacted with each other at the slanted portions thereof in a state
that said cartridge is mounted to the main assembly of the electrophotographic image forming
apparatus and said cartridge side drive transmission member has moved inwardly of said
cartridge.
                      48. A cartridge according to a Claim 47, wherein said rotatable member
provided with a ring portion having a substantially ring-shape.
                      49. A cartridge according to Claim 48, wherein said rotatable member is
provided with a projection projected from said ring portion.
                      50. A cartridge according to Claim 49, further comprising a rotatable
photosensitive member on which the latent image to be developed by said developing roller is
formed, and a photosensitive member frame rotatably supporting said photosensitive member,
wherein said developing device frame is connected with said photosensitive member frame such

                                                 120
that said developing roller is capable of contacting to and spacing from said photosensitive
member.
                      51. A cartridge according to Claim 50, wherein said projected portion of said
rotatable member receives a force from said photosensitive member frame in the relation with
movement said developing device frame relative to said photosensitive member frame, by which
said rotatable member rotates.
                      52. A cartridge according to Claim 51, wherein as seen along the rotational
axis of said developing roller, said projected portion of said rotatable member is projected from
said developing device frame toward said photosensitive member frame.
                      53. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 49 - 52, wherein in a state
that said cartridge is mounted to the main assembly of the electrophotographic image forming
apparatus, said rotatable member receives the force at said projected portion from said
photosensitive member frame.
                      54. A cartridge according to Claim 53, wherein said decoupling member and
said rotatable member is provided on said developing device frame, and said projected portion of
said rotatable member receives the force from said photosensitive member frame by said urging
force receiving portion receiving the urging force to rotate said rotatable member.
                      55. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 45 - 54, further comprising a
cartridge side drive transmission element capable of transmitting the rotational force received by
said cartridge side drive transmission member to said developing roller, and wherein a rotation
axis of said rotatable member is substantially coaxial with the rotational axes of said cartridge
side drive transmission member said cartridge side drive transmission element.
                      56. A cartridge according to Claim 24, wherein said decoupling member is
provided with a ring portion having a substantially ring-shape.
                      57. A cartridge according to Claim 56, wherein said ring portion of said
decoupling member is provided with the urging portion.

                                                    121
                      58. A cartridge according to Claim 57, wherein said urging portion has a
surface which it substantially perpendicular to the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                       59. A cartridge according to any one of the Claims 56 - 58, wherein said
decoupling member is provided with a projected portion projected from said ring portion.
                       60. A cartridge according to Claim 59, wherein said projected portion
projects in a direction along the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                       61. A cartridge according to the Claim 59, wherein said projected portion is
provided at an outer periphery of said ring portion and is convex toward a radially outside in a
radial direction of said ring portion.
                       62. A cartridge according to Claim 60 or 61, further comprising a guide
portion configured to guide the portion-to-be-guided of said projected portion to permit
movement of said decoupling member substantially in parallel with the rotational axis of said
developing roller.
                       63. A cartridge according to Claim 62, wherein said guide portion and said
portion-to-be-guided are substantially parallel with the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                       64. A cartridge according to Claim 63, further comprising a cartridge frame
is provided with said guide portion.
                       65. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 62 - 64, wherein said
projected portion is provided with said force receiving portion.
                       66. A cartridge according to Claim 65, wherein said force receiving portion
is slanted relative to the rotational axis of said developing roller.
                       67. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 62 - 66, wherein said
decoupling member is provided with a plurality of such projected portions.
                       68. A cartridge according to Claim 67, wherein said projected portions are
arranged substantially at regular intervals.

                                                  122
                      69. A cartridge according to Claim 23, wherein said decoupling member is
substantially coaxial with the rotational axis of said cartridge side drive transmission member.
                      70. A cartridge according to Claim 23, a drive transmitting portion for
receiving a rotational force for rotating said photosensitive member is fixed in a direction along a
rotational axis said photosensitive member, and said cartridge side drive transmission member
for receiving the rotational force for rotating said developing roller is movable in the direction
along the rotational axis of said photosensitive member.
                      71. A cartridge for electrophotographic image formation, said cartridge
comprising:
                    (i) rotatable developing roller;
                    (ii) a drive input member for receiving a rotational force for rotating said
developing roller from an outside said cartridge;
                    (iii) an urging force receiving portion capable of receiving an urging force;
and
                    (iv) an urging member capable of moving said drive input member inwardly
of said cartridge in reception of the urging force by said urging force receiving portion,
                    wherein when said cartridge is seen along a rotational axis of said developing
roller, said developing roller is disposed between said drive input member and said urging force
receiving portion.
                      72. A cartridge according to Claim 71, further comprising a frame provided
at a longitudinal end portion of said cartridge, said frame being provided with an opening,
wherein said drive input member is movable between a first position in which an end portion of
said drive input member project through said opening beyond an outside plane of said opening
and a second position in which said driving input member is retracted from the first position
inwardly of said cartridge.
                      73. A cartridge according to Claim 72, wherein in the second position, the
end portion of said drive input member is retracted from an outside surface of said frame
inwardly of said cartridge.

                                                123
                    74. A process cartridge according to any one of Claims I to 3, wherein said
urging member is capable of urging said drive input member by the urging force received by said
urging force receiving portion.
                     75. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 21 to 70, wherein said
decoupling member is capable of urging said cartridge side driving transmission member by the
urging force received by said urging force receiving portion.
                     76. A cartridge according to any one of Claims 71 to 73, wherein said urging
member is capable of urging said drive input member by the urging force received by said urging
force receiving portion.
                                            Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
                                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                            SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           22/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           23/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           24/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           25/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           26/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           27/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           28/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           29/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           30/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           31/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           32/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           33/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           34/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           35/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           36/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           37/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           38/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           39/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           40/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           41/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           42/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           43/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           44/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           45/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           46/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           47/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           48/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           49/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           50/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           51/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           52/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           53/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           54/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           55/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           56/57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           57/57

