                                 ABSTRACT
A method, mobile application and business scheme for creating a drone incident
report (DIR) on a mobile device. The method allows users to capture evidence of
illegal drone or unmanned aerial vehicles usage with the users mobile device as the
incident is occurring to create and send an online drone incident report, the report is
emailed to the user and the application custodians. The incident report can be used
to aid authorities in their investigations or take emergency actions. The DIR contains
details such as images and videos, location, time, date of the incident, drone
identification, distance and height. The application includes maps using machine
learning technology, the maps reveal no fly zones, such as aerodromes, utilities,
prisons, sporting stadiums or the like.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

DroneALERT innovation patent application
Description
DroneALERT is a global rapid drone reporting application that can be completed in 4 easy steps
using just a mobile device. It encourages 'drone detectives' (anyone!) to report bad or
dangerous drone activity simply by using photos, videos and geo-locations. The system then
turns gathered information into a valuable report, which can be given to authorities to help
them investigate drone incidents. DroneALERT that has potential to self-regulate the drone
industry while contributing to improving drone, aviation and public safety and education.
The drone or UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) industry is growing exponentially at a pace that
policy makers, individual countries and law enforcement agencies are finding difficult to keep
up. The UAV market is large, as such the amount of UAVs being operated in potentially
dangerous situations is prevalent and rapidly increasing. Media is continually reporting 'near
miss' incidents between UAVs and commercial aircraft, UAV breaching security in sensitive
areas or invading public privacy.
One major challenge for law enforcement agencies is gaining tangible evidence against
potentially dangerous or illegal UAV operators due to the rapidity with which UAV operators
are able to enter, fly and exit a scene before authorities can arrive or before they can be
located.
DroneALERT allows users to capture potentially dangerous or illegal UAV activity using their
mobile device as it the incident is occurring. A short online DroneALERT Incident Report (DIR) is
produced, emailed to the user and the DroneALERT custodians. The DIR can be used to aid
authorities in their investigations. The DIR contains details such as images and videos, location,
time, date of the incident, drone model, its distance and height.
By analysing information from the DIR, photos or video, there is a high potential for law
enforcement authorities to use this evidence to identify the type of UAV used, triangulate the
location of the potential dangerous UAV and operator, create a timeline of events, potential
areas of operator exit and to determine the legalities breached. All provides crucial evidence for
identifying and prosecuting a UAV operator.
DroneALERT also has data such as global no fly zones, which can aid the authorities and users in
determining if they, or the reported drone, was flying in a legal manner. The global drone maps
have been created by DroneALERT using machine learning technology. The maps cover
features, globally, such as aerodromes, utilities (power etc), prisons, sporting or event
stadiums, national parks, cities and other key no fly zones in global drone regulations.
This methodology and business process/method is unique in the world.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

DroneALERT claims
    *  DroneALERT is a world first application that is not available anywhere else.
    *  DroneALERT is a secure online systems that can used by organisations globally and used easily
       by the public
    *  DroneALERT business process is a world first
    *  DroneALERT has the ability to self-regulate the drone industry - globally
    *  DroneALERT has the ability to contribute to aviation and public safety - globally.
    *  DroneALERT has the ability to contribute to aviation, drone and public education - globally.
    *  DroneALERT global drone maps of no fly zones, safe drone flying zones and events is a world
       first

