                                            Abstract
   A method and a machine of controlling dispensing of doses of coffee grounds, the
   machine comprising a grinding device (2) which is configured to grind coffee beans, a
 5 conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in communication with the grinding device for
   receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet (53), a closure member (54) which is adapted to
   be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be discharged from the
   conduit through the outlet (53), and a closed position for closing the outlet, and a coffee
   grounds weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals representative of the
10 weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when the closure member is
   in the closed position.
   [Figure 6]
15

                      6/7
           87                    86
     23
                                 95
     522
              222
83                               21
        51
      53
 54
     3
 103
                             894
                           8
               24 4
                    Fig. 6

                                                 1
   Title: "Method and machine for dispensing doses of coffee grounds"
   This application claims priority from Italian Application No. 10<removed-apn>725 filed on
 5 2 December 2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this
   reference.
                                          DESCRIPTION
10          Field of the invention
            The present invention finds application in the field of grinding of coffee beans as
   is needed for preparation of a coffee beverage, e.g. espresso. Particularly, the invention
   relates to a method and an apparatus for controlled dispensing of doses of coffee grounds.
15          Background art
            When preparing coffee beverages, such as espresso, coffee beans are first ground
   in a coffee grinder. Then the coffee grounds are brewed using high-pressure hot water in
   a coffee machine. The coffee grounds ejected by the coffee grinder is carried to the coffee
   machine into a portafilter, in which it is held even during preparation and dispensing of
20 the beverage.
            In order to obtain a coffee of the desired type, optimal adjustment of process
   parameters is generally desired, such as the degree of grinding of coffee beans, pressing
   of the coffee grounds amount of coffee grounds in use, proper ground coffee-to-water
   ratio, and water temperature and pressure.
25          In a conventional grinding-dosing machine, coffee powder is filled in a collecting
   container and the barista allows coffee powder to be ejected from the container into the
   portafilter, typically by actuating a lever.
            ITI 187064, for example, discloses an automatic coffee machine for dispensing
   coffee, which provides a consistent volume of brewed beverage and allows dispensing to
30 be measured with time, such that the user is promptly given an indication of the quality
   of the dispensed coffee.

                                                 2
           On the other hand, ES1089030 discloses a coffee grinder that incorporates a
   graduated transparent tube, allowing the amount of coffee that is being ground to prepare
   a single coffee dose. Therefore, the barista will receive a visual check of the amount of
   coffee grounds, and will thus decide when he/she will manually act to turn off the coffee
 5 grinder and stop grinding the coffee beans. The coffee dose is checked based on the
   volume of coffee that has been ground.
           Professional grinding-dosing machines, e.g. for preparing doses of coffee grounds
   for espresso beverages from a coffee machine in a bar or restaurant, are often configured
   to operate "on demand", with coffee beans being directly ground into the portafilter upon
10 request.
           In the coffee grinder as disclosed in EP2314188 the coffee dose to be fed to the
   portafilter is adjusted based on preset grinding times. The coffee grinder may recognize
   the portafilter in use and autonomously decide the dose of coffee grounds to be
   dispensed. Each portafilter is associated with a coffee dispenser, which dispenses coffee
15 according to a predetermined recipe and, as the coffee grinder recognizes the portafilter,
   it will provide a provide a predetermined amount of coffee grounds, e.g. a single or a
   double dose, associated with the recipe.
           WO 2015/006244 discloses a coffee grinder equipped with a load cell that
   supports a fork for the barista to lay the portafilter thereon while the latter is being filled
20 with coffee grounds. This will deform the load cell, and as its deformation is measured,
   the grinder will be able to provide a measurement of the mass of the portafilter containing
   the coffee grounds to the barista. Therefore, the mass of the coffee grounds is obtained by
   subtracting the mass of the empty portafilter from the measured value. The coffee grinder
   as disclosed in this document also provides arrangements to preserve the load cell from
25 impacts that might damage it, particularly when the barista lays the portafilter on the fork.
   This is because the load cell should not be exposed to stresses that are too higher than
   those expected for weighing.
           US 2016/0143481 addresses a coffee grinding machine comprising a dispensing
   conduit connected to a grinder unit for dispensing coffee into a filter supported by a
30 portafilter supported by a platform, wherein a load cell is connected to the support
   platform for weighing the amount of coffee contained in the filter. The load cell is

                                                    3
   electrically connected to a control unit that receives measurement signals indicative of the
   weight of coffee and is configured to stop the grinder unit when the weight of the coffee
   attains a predetermined value.
 5         Summary of the Invention
           The Applicant found that measurement of the mass of the coffee grounds
   provides, in certain cases of interest, more accurate dosing as compared with the control
   of the grinding time or the volume of coffee grounds.
           The arrangements as disclosed in WO 2015/006244 and US 2016/0143481
10 provide the possibility of measuring the mass of the coffee grounds. The Applicant found
   that, since the devices as disclosed therein effect measurements with the weight of the
   portafilter supported by the load cell, the mass of the empty portafilter has to be precisely
   known. One coffee grinder is generally used with various portafilters, which usually have
   different masses. It shall be noted that a portafilter may weigh a few hundred grams, and
15 a dose of coffee grounds generally has a much lower weight, e.g. a few grams. Therefore,
   even slight mass differences between two portafilters, possibly of the same type, may be
   significant as compared with the weight of the coffee to be dosed.
           In the "on demand" operating mode, the machine can dispense doses of coffee
   grounds based on the grinding time. Dispensing is stopped upon expiry of the time that
20 has been set when programming the machine. These machines are often equipped with a
   user interface which is used by a user to input the target dose, e.g. a single or double
   dose, and optionally the degree of grinding. Typically, the coffee grounds is ejected from
   a grinder unit into a filter within a portafilter via a dispensing conduit.
           Grinding time control may lead to dispensing of inaccurate doses of coffee
25 grounds for various reasons. This is because coffee beans may form agglomerates due to
   the effect of grease on the grains; furthermore, the coffee grinder is prone to wear, which
   leads to a time-dependent degradation of its operation parameters. Similar problems may
   cause changes in the degree of grinding or irregular sliding of the outflowing coffee
   grounds from the coffee grinder, leading to dosing errors.
30         Any changes in coffee mixtures or operating parameters of the machine may
   affect the mass throughput, e.g. grams/second, of the coffee powder that flows down

                                                4
   through the dispensing conduit.
            A change in the mass throughput may lead, under identical grinding time
   conditions, to dispensing of a dose of coffee that deviates from the target value. A
   relatively slight deviation may affect the final result in the cup. For example, an
 5 underbrewed or an overbrewed beverage may be obtained, with undesired organoleptic
   results.
            If the machine has been set to dispense doses in a time-dependent manner,
   dispensing of a dose other than the desired dose may be perceived only upon preparation
   of beverages whose taste or quality are not as desired. Generally, the prepared beverage
10 may be also visually different, and may fall from the machine with a stream other than a
   "mouse tail" stream.
            On the other hand, adjustment and calibration of the machine by a user are often
   time- consuming operations, leading to downtime of the grinding-dosing machine.
            The Applicant realized that a procedure for automatic control of the dose being
15 dispensed may afford an accurate check that the dose being dispensed matches the
   nominal dose for a given coffee beverage.
            The Applicant also realized that, by automatically weighing the coffee grounds
   when the coffee has not being dropped into the portafilter yet, the "on demand" operating
   mode, only based on the grinding time, may be replaced by a mode affording control of
20 the dose that is being actually dispensed without requiring coffee dose dispensing to be
   stopped.
            The present disclosure provides a method of controlling dispensing of coffee
   grounds from a grinding-dosing machine, the machine comprising a grinding device
   which is configured to grind coffee beans, a conduit, having an inlet in communication
25 with the grinding device for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet, a closure member
   which is adapted to be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be
   discharged from the conduit through the outlet, and a closed position for closing the
   outlet, and a coffee grounds weight sensor, which is configured to generate measurement
   signals representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit
30 when the closure member is in the closed position, the method comprising:
       a) storing a nominal weight value of coffee grounds;

                                                  5
       b) storing a nominal grinding time value associated with the nominal weight value;
       c) placing the closure member in the closed position;
       d) operating the grinding device for discharging coffee grounds through the conduit
           onto the closure member for a time equal to the nominal grinding time value, in a
 5         first grinding operation;
       e) Receiving, at the end of the first grinding operation, a measurement signal
           representative of an actual weight value of coffee grounds built-up on the closure
           member;
       f) comparing the actual weight value with the stored nominal weight value and,
10         based on the result of the comparison, if the measured actual weight value defers
           from the nominal weight value to an extent exceeding a predetermined threshold
           value, calculating a mass throughput based on the actual weight value and the
           nominal grinding time value;
       g) based on the calculated mass throughput value, calculating an actual grinding time
15         value to obtain the nominal value of the coffee grounds dose, and
       h) storing the actual grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time value.
           Preferably, the predetermined threshold value for deviation between the nominal
   weight value and the actual weight value is 10%, more preferably 7%.
           The flow throughput is calculated as a ratio of the actual weight value to the
20 nominal grinding time value as previously stored.
           Preferably, before the step d), the method comprises receiving input data
   requesting coffee grounds dispensing, associated with the nominal weight value of coffee
   grounds, and the step d) is carried out in response to the reception of said input data.
           In one embodiment, the machine comprises a portafilter-retaining support and a
25 presence sensor, which is configured to generate an electric signal for notifying the
   presence of the portafilter when the portafilter has been placed in the retaining support,
   wherein the method comprises, before the step d), placing a portafilter on the retaining
   support, detecting the presence of the portafilter using the presence sensor, wherein
   receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing associated with the nominal
30 weight value comprises receiving a presence detection electric signal, wherein the
   grinding operation according to step d) is carried out in response to reception of the

                                                    6
   presence detection signal.
             A grinding-dosing machine is also disclosed, according to claim 10.
             A method of controlling dispensing of coffee grounds from a grinding-dosing
   machine, the machine comprising a grinding device which is configured to grind coffee
 5 beans, a dispensing conduit, having an inlet in communication with the grinding device
   for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet, a closure member which is adapted to be
   removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be discharged from the
   conduit through the outlet, and a closed position for closing the outlet, and a coffee
   grounds weight sensor, which is configured to generate signals representative of the
10 weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when the closure member is
   in the closed position, the method comprising:
       (i)      storing a nominal weight value of the coffee grounds and a nominal grinding
                time value, which are associated with a type of coffee-based beverage,
       (ii)     placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
15     (iii)    operating the grinding device (2) for discharging coffee grounds through the
                dispensing conduit (51) onto the closure member (54) for a time equal to the
                nominal grinding time value;
       (iv)     receiving a measurement signal representative of an actual weight value of
                coffee grounds built-up on the closure member at the end of the grinding
20              operation;
       (v)      recording said measured actual weight value;
       (vi)     moving the closure member (54) to the open position for the coffee grounds to
                be discharged;
       (vii)    repeating the steps (ii) to (vi) a plurality (N-1) of times, with N>2, to record a
25              plurality of N actual weight values at the end of N respective grinding
                operations;
       (viii)   calculating a respective plurality of mass throughput values based on the
                plurality N of actual weight values and the nominal grinding time value;
       (ix)     calculating an average mass throughput value from the plurality N of mass
30              throughput values and an average weight value from the plurality N of
                measured actual weight values;

                                                  7
       (x)     comparing the average weight value with the stored nominal weight value and,
               if the average weight value differs from the nominal weight value to an extent
               exceeding a predetermined threshold value, calculating an average grinding
               time value, defined as a ratio of the nominal weight value to the calculated
 5             average mass throughput value, and
       (xi)    storing said average grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time
               value.
            Preferably, the N value is of from 2 to 10 pim.
            Preferably, the predetermined threshold value for deviation between the nominal
10 weight value and the actual weight value is 10%, more preferably 7%.
            A grinding-dosing machine is also disclosed, according to claim 13.
            According to the preferred embodiments of the invention, in the coffee dose
   control mode, the coffee grounds are weighed in a dispensing conduit that is held closed,
   where it builds up during grinding, and is then discharged into the portafilter as the
15 conduit is opened. During or at the end of grinding, the mass of coffee that has built up is
   weighed by means of a weight sensor.
            Preferably, the weight sensor is a load cell, more preferably a bending beam load
   cell.
            Preferably, the dispensing conduit and, as a result, the coffee grounds building up
20 therein upon the closure member, is supported on the load cell in hanging relation.
   Particularly, the load cell comprises a flexible free end portion, which is mechanically
   connected to the dispensing conduit and to the closure member. This will afford accurate
   measurement and dosing of the mass of coffee grounds. Advantageously, the unladen
   mass as measured by the load cell is constant, which allows a single measurement to be
25 taken during calibration of the load cell. Therefore, the load cell may be set to indicate a
   zero mass in a no-load measurement condition. Here, the mass that is being measured and
   indicated when coffee grounds are present directly corresponds to the mass of the coffee
   grounds, and there is no need to check the unladen mass at each weighing operation, i.e.
   before dispensing the coffee grounds, e.g. the mass of the portafilter.
30          Preferably, the closure member of the dispensing conduit is placed at the outlet of
   the dispensing conduit.

                                                 8
           Preferably, the measurement signal representative of the weight of the coffee
   grounds built up in the dispensing conduit is an output electric signal of the weight
   sensor.
           Preferably, the grinding-dosing machine comprises an electronic control unit,
 5 preferably a central processing unit (CPU), and the weight sensor is connected to the
   electronic control unit and is configured to generate a measurement signal representative
   of the measured weight of the coffee grounds. For example, if the weight sensor is a
   bending beam load cell, the measurement signal representative of the weight of coffee
   grounds is a voltage signal proportional to the deflection of the free end portion, of the
10 cell.
           In certain embodiments, if the weight sensor is a load cell, the grinding-dosing
   machine comprises a main body which comprises the dispensing conduit, the closure
   member and a load transfer structure attached to the free end portion of the load cell in
   such a manner as to be supported in hanging relation by the load cell, with the dispensing
15 conduit and the closure member being attached to the load transfer structure in such a
   manner as to be supported by the cell through the load transfer structure.
           Preferably, the grinding-dosing comprises a drive system for driving the closure
   member, the system comprising a motor driven by the electronic control unit and
   connected to the closure member. The control unit is configured to control the movement
20 of the closure member from the closed position to the open position and vice versa.
           Preferably, the grinding-dosing machine of the present disclosure further
   comprises a retaining support, which is configured to support and/or mechanically
   connect a portafilter. The outlet of the dispensing conduit faces the retaining support, for
   the coffee grounds to be discharged into the portafilter when the closure member is in the
25 open position The outlet of the conduit is preferably placed above the retaining support
   for the portafilter.
           The present disclosure relates to a method of dispensing a dose of coffee grounds
   from a grinding-dosing machine, the machine comprising a grinding device for grinding
   coffee beans, a dispensing conduit, having an inlet in communication with the grinding
30 device for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet, a closure member which is adapted to
   be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be discharged from the

                                                 9
   conduit through the outlet, and a closed position for closing the outlet, the method
   comprising:
       -   storing a buffer weight value and a first grinding time value associated with the
           buffer weight value;
 5     -   placing the closure member in the closed position;
       -   carrying out a first grinding operation, by operating the grinding device for a time
           equal to the first grinding time, for discharging coffee grounds through the
           dispensing conduit so that the amount of coffee grounds that build up on the
           closure member corresponds to the buffer weight value;
10     -   receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing, associated with a
           nominal weight value of coffee grounds;
       -   comparing the received nominal weight value input with the buffer weight value;
       -   based on the comparison result, if the nominal weight value corresponds to the
           buffer weight value, placing the closure member in the open position to discharge
15         the coffee grounds built up at the end of the first grinding operation through the
           outlet of the dispensing conduit;
       -   based on the comparison result, if the nominal weight value is greater than the
           buffer weight value, carrying out the following steps:
             -    with the closure member maintained in the closed position, carrying out a
20               second grinding operation by operating the grinding device to discharge
                 coffee grounds through the conduit onto the closure member;
             -   stopping the grinding device when the built-up coffee is equal to the
                 nominal weight value, or at the end of a grinding time associated with the
                 nominal weight value, and
25           -   placing the closure member in the open position to discharge the coffee
                 grounds built up at the end of the first and second grinding operations
                 through the outlet of the conduit.
           Preferably, the buffer weight value corresponds to a single dose of coffee grounds.
   In certain embodiments, if the nominal weight value is greater than the buffer weight
30 value corresponds to a dose of coffee grounds which is a multiple of the single dose.
           In one embodiment, receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing,

                                                  10
   associated with a nominal weight value of coffee grounds, comprises selecting a type of
   coffee beverage associated with said nominal weight value.
           In one embodiment, the portafilter comprises an identifier and the grinding-dosing
   machine comprises an identification sensor, which is configured to read said identifier,
 5 when the portafilter is placed on the retaining support of the portafilter, and to generate a
   signal representative of the identifier. In this embodiment, receiving input data requesting
   coffee grounds dispensing associated with a nominal weight value of coffee grounds
   comprises receiving the signal representative of the identifier of the portafilter and
   associating the received signal with a nominal value of coffee grounds, which has been
10 stored in the machine.
           Brief description of the figures
           Further features and advantages of the dosing device of this invention, will be
   apparent from the following description of one preferred embodiment thereof, which is
15 given by way of illustration and without limitation with reference to the accompanying
   figures, in which:
           - Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a dosing device that may be included in a
   grinding-dosing machine, according to one embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 2 shows a perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 1, which
20 comprises a support frame according to a further embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 3 is a rear perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 2,
           - Figure 4 is a side perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 2,
           - Figure 5 schematically shows a detail of a dosing device according to one
   embodiment of the present invention,
25         - Figure 6 is a perspective view of a grinding-dosing machine according to a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 7 is a block diagram of a system for controlling grinding and weighing of
   the coffee grounds with reference to the grinding-dosing machine of Figure 6, and
           - Figure 8 is a schematic view of an example of a portafilter.
30
           Detailed description

                                                 11
           Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a dosing device 3 that may be included in a
   grinding-dosing machine (not shown in Figures 1 to 5), according to one embodiment of
   the present invention. The dosing device 3 comprises a main body 5. The main body 5
   comprises a dispensing conduit 51 having one inlet 52 and one outlet 53. The inlet 52 is
 5 configured to receive coffee grounds, e.g. from a coffee grinding device. The outlet 53 of
   the conduit 51 is configured to allow coffee grounds to be discharged from the conduit
   51. The dispensing conduit 51 preferably extends in the vertical direction between the
   inlet 52 and the outlet 53. The coffee grounds received through the inlet 52 fall by gravity
   along the conduit 51 out of the outlet 53.
10         In certain embodiments, the dosing device 3 is configured to discharge predefined
   doses of coffee grounds. The dosed coffee grounds discharged from the dosing device 3
   may be collected in a portafilter, typically supported by a retaining support (not shown in
   Figure 1), such as a fork.
           The main body 5 of the dosing device 3 comprises a closure member 54 which is
15 preferably placed at the outlet 53 of the conduit 51. The closure member 54 is able to
   move between a closed position and an open position. In the embodiment as shown in the
   figures, the closure member 54 is a plate, e.g. a steel plate.
           In the closed position, the closure member 54 prevents coffee grounds from being
   discharged out of the outlet 53 and allows coffee grounds to build up in the dispensing
20 conduit 51. Preferably, in the closed position, the closure member closes the outlet 53 and
   supports the coffee grounds built up in the conduit 51. Conversely, in the open position,
   the closure member leaves the outlet 53 open, allowing coffee grounds to be discharged
   from the conduit 51 through the outlet, in the direction of the arrow 99.
           In the examples as shown in Figures 1-4, the plate 54 is mounted to a pin 88
25 which acts as a fulcrum for pivoting about an axis of rotation AA and switching between
   the closed position and the open position is performed by rotating the plate from a
   horizontal position in which it closes the outlet of the conduit and a vertical position
   (substantially along the main direction of extension of the conduit, i.e. the direction 99) in
   which it leaves the outlet 53 open. It should be appreciated that, although preferred, the
30 open position must not necessarily be in a plane substantially perpendicular to the plane
   in which the plate is in the closed position.

                                                 12
           The dosing device 3 comprises a weight sensor 6 configured to generate electric
   measurement signals representative of the weight of the coffee built up in the dispensing
   conduit. Preferably, the weight sensor is a load cell 6, which is configured to measure the
   weight of the coffee grounds built up in the dispensing conduit 51 when the closure
 5 member 54 is in the closed position. Particularly, the load cell 6 comprises a free first end
   portion 61 and a second end portion 62 opposite thereto.
           Preferably, the load cell is a bending beam load cell or a shear beam load cell.
           The load cell 6 generally comprises at least one flexible portion 63 situated
   between the first end portion 61 and the second end portion 62, and configured to deform
10 under the weight applied to the first end portion 61. Furthermore, the load cell 6 may
   comprise one or more strain gages (not shown) applied to the flexible portion 63 and
   configured to generate a voltage signal proportional to the deformation of the flexible
   portion 62. Strain gages may be, for example, deformable resistors connected in a
   Wheatstone-bridge configuration, according to known techniques.
15         The load cell is connected to an electronic control unit (not shown in Figures 1-6),
   preferably a central processing unit (CPU),         which is configured to receive the
   measurement signals representative of the load applied to the cell generated by the weight
   sensor. For example, the load cell is electronically connected to the electronic control unit
   for receiving voltage signals proportional to the deformation of the load cell and possibly
20 for transmitting control signals to the sensor.
           The first end portion 61 is flexible and is connected to the main body 5 of the
   dosing device 3 in such a manner as to support the main body 5 in hanging relation. In
   other words, the main body 5 hangs from the first end portion 61 of the load cell 6. Thus,
   the weight of the main body 5 and of the coffee built up in the main conduit 51 rests
25 completely on the load cell 6, thereby causing the deformation of the flexible portion 62
   and thus allowing the measurement of such weight, e.g. by means of the strain gages.
           The load cell 6 is preferably configured to measure the weight of the coffee
   grounds built up in the conduit 51 of the main body 5 by difference between a gross
   weight of the main body 5, as measured when there are coffee grounds in the conduit 51
30 of the main body 5, and a tare weight constituted by the main body 5 itself with no coffee
   grounds in the conduit. The tare, that may be measured when the dispensing conduit 51 of

                                                   13
   the main body is empty, may be thus represented by a constant numerical value. The load
   cell 6 may be configured to indicate a zero weight when no coffee grounds are present in
   the conduit 51. Thus, the measurement signals transmitted by the load cell to the CPU are
   representative of the weight of the coffee built up in the conduit.
 5         It will be appreciated that the load cell may operate in a relatively narrow range of
   values and provide adequately precise measurements. The load cell initially supports a
   main body that comprises the dispensing conduit and the mass of the coffee grounds is
   simply later added to such mass. Therefore, the mass increase recorded by the cell during
   measurement is only equal to the quantity to be measured, i.e. the mass of the coffee
10 grounds. As a result, from an equilibrium position assumed by the load cell before
   grinding, the load cell is subjected to a small deformation when the coffee grounds are
   present.
           As further discussed hereinafter, the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6
   during use is fixed, particularly by means of a stable connection with a structure external
15 to the main body, referred to hereinafter as support structure, e.g. a non-hanging panel or
   frame, such as a frame of a grinding-dosing machine that comprises the dosing device of
   the present disclosure.
           In a preferred embodiment, the main body 5 comprises a load transfer structure
   55. In the embodiment as shown in the figures, the load transfer structure 55 is shaped as
20 a suitably shaped plate. Preferably, the load transfer structure 55 has a vertically-oriented
   main plane of extension (i.e., parallel to the main direction of extension of the conduit 51)
   and comprises at least one connecting portion 92 projecting out of the main plane of
   extension for attaching the structure 55 to the load cell 6, particularly the first free end
   portion, 61 of the cell 6. More generally, the load transfer structure 55 is attached to the
25 first end portion, 61 of the cell 6, as discussed in greater detail below.
           In the embodiment as shown in the figures, the load transfer structure 55
   comprises an opening 77 which is configured to receive the load cell 6 in a transverse
   position across the opening. The load cell 6 is arranged to project out of the main plane of
   extension of the load transfer structure 55, and particularly both end portions of the load
30 cell are arranged to project out of the main plane of extension of the load transfer
   structure.

                                                   14
           The dispensing conduit 51 and the closure member 54 are engaged on the load
   transfer structure 55, and are particularly attached to it. For example, the conduit 51 is
   attached to the load transfer structure 55 through first fastener elements.
           In the exemplary implementation of the figures, the main body 5 comprises an
 5 outlet connection element 91 disposed at the outlet 53 of the conduit 51 and connected to
   the outlet. Preferably, the outlet connection element 91 is formed of one piece with the
   conduit 51. The outlet connection element 91 is hollow and has an opening at the outlet
   53 of the conduit to allow ejection of the coffee grounds from the conduit through the
   connection element.
10         In the illustrated embodiment, without limitation, the outlet connection element 91
   extends outside the conduit 51, in a main direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis
   of the dispensing conduit 51. A first connecting flange 90, which projects out of the main
   plane of extension of the structure 55, is attached to the structure or is integral with the
   structure. The first connecting flange 90 is configured to support the outlet connection
15 element 91, and be attached thereto by first fastener means 89 (e.g. a plurality of screws
   into a fastening box). Accordingly, the conduit 51 is supported by the load transfer
   structure 55 through the outlet connection element 91, the first fastener means 89 and the
   first connecting flange 90.
           It shall be understood that other methods of connection, namely fixation, may be
20 provided between the dispensing conduit 51 and the load transfer structure 55, other than
   those as shown in the figures. Particularly, the outlet connection element 91 is optional,
   and the connection flange 90 is also optional.
           In the embodiments of Figures 1-4, the plate 54 is attached to the load transfer
   structure 55 by means of a pivot or pin 88 for pivoting about the axis AA, which moves
25 the plate 54 from the closed position to the open position.
           In an alternative embodiment, a detail whereof is schematically shown in Figure
   5, described in further detail hereinbelow, the closure member 54 is movable relative to
   the load transfer structure 55 in the straight direction.
           The load transfer structure 55 is attached to the first end portion 61 of the load cell
30 6. Particularly, the first end portion, 61 of the cell 6 comprises a supporting surface 64 for
   application of bending stresses.

                                                  15
           In the illustrated example, the load transfer structure 55 is attached to such bearing
   surface 64 by means of second fastener elements 65, e.g. screws. Particularly, the
   connection portion 92 of the structure 55 is attached to the first end portion 61 of the cell
   6. Thus, the load transfer structure 55 is supported in hanging relation on the support
 5 surface of the load cell 6 and in turn, the conduit 51 and the closure member 54 are
   constrained to the load transfer structure 55, and are hence supported by the load cell 6 in
   hanging relation through the structure 55.
           As mentioned above, the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 can be fixed to a
   support structure for supporting the load cell 6, which supports the main body 5 in
10 hanging relation by its free first end portion. As more clearly explained hereinbelow, the
   support structure does not hang from the load cell 6. Preferably, the support structure
   rests on or is attached to a base.
           Referring to the embodiment of Figures 2-4, the support structure, which is
   external to the main body, is a panel 8 that is supported or fixed to a base, in the work
15 position of the dosing device, to thereby support the main body. Preferably the panel 8 is
   formed as a suitably shaped plate. The second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 is attached
   to the panel 8 of the dosing device 3. The panel 8 is preferably a substantially flat panel,
   which is located behind the load transfer structure 55, and with a vertical orientation, for
   the main body 5 to be arranged to project out of the panel 8. In the illustrated
20 embodiments, the main body 5 comprises at least one portion projecting out of the panel
   8, such portion comprising at least the conduit 51 and the closure member 54.
           The panel 8 of the dosing device 3 may be stably supported or be mechanically
   connected to a frame (not shown in Figures 1-5) of a grinding-dosing machine, which
   comprises the dosing device 3. The second end 62 of the load cell 6 may be connected to
25 the frame either indirectly through the panel 8 of the dosing device 3 (like in the example
   as shown in the figures) or directly.
           The panel 8 supports the load transfer structure 55. Since the panel 8 rests on a
   base and/or is attached to a frame, it is not weighed by the load cell 6.
           Preferably, the load cell 6 is arranged to project out of the panel 8. The panel 8
30 has an opening 82, at the opening 77 of the load transfer structure 55, for the passage of
   the load cell 6 through the openings, with the load cell 6 not contacting the edge of the

                                                 16
   opening 82, to avoid measurement errors.
           The panel 8 is attached to the load transfer structure 55 and hence to the main
   body 5 by the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6. Since no other constraint points
   are provided between the load cell and a structure external to the main body, the load
 5 transfer structure is supported in hanging relation on the flexible and free first end portion
   61 of the load cell and is free to move relative to the panel 8.
           Preferably, the movement of the load transfer structure and hence the main body
   is vertically restricted by first limit-stop elements, and more preferably is also
   horizontally restricted by second limit-stop elements. The first limit-stop elements, and
10 the second limit-stop elements, if any, are configured to restrict the movement of the
   main body 5 and the panel 8 relative to each other, to thereby protect the load cell 6 from
   excessive deformations as a result of accidental damage to the main body 5.
           In the embodiment as shown in the figures, first limit-stop elements comprise
   limit-stop screws 57 and respective abutment surfaces 84. The screws 57 of the first limit
15 stop elements are arranged in such a manner as to be spaced from the abutment surfaces
   84 when no impact occurs, and to contact their respective abutment surfaces 84 in the
   case of impacts, to thereby restrict the movement of the main body 5 and the panel 8
   relative to each other. Namely, the limit-stop screws 57 are fixed to the upper portion and
   the lower portion of the load transfer structure 55, and particularly to respective flanges
20 formed in the structure 55 at respective holes in the panel 8. For example, the abutment
   surfaces 84 horizontally project out of the panel 8. Each screw 57 of the main body 5 has
   an abutment surface 84 of the panel 8 corresponding thereto, to allow the main body 5 to
   move relative to the panel in the vertical direction, before stopping its movement.
           Preferably, the movement of the main body is restricted in the horizontal direction
25 by second limit-stop elements, for instance limit-stop screws 85 attached to the panel 8,
   proximate to the vertical walls of the load transfer structure. Each screw 85 of the panel 8
   has an abutment surface of the main body 5 corresponding thereto, for instance a vertical
   portion of the load transfer structure 55.
           It shall be appreciated that, by defining the load transfer structure that holds the
30 main body (open conduit) as the tare, the movement caused by (further) bending of the
   free end portion of the load cell for weighing the coffee grounds is relatively small,

                                                  17
   considering typical coffee grounds masses dispensed into a portafilter ranging from 5 to
   30 grams.
           In the exemplary implementation as shown in the figures, the second end portion
   62 of the load cell 6 is attached to the back surface of the panel 8, opposite to the front
 5 surface on which the load transfer structure 55 is arranged to project (as shown in Figures
   3 and 4). The panel comprises a connection flange 81, projecting out of the main plane of
   extension of the panel 8, which can be made by cutting and bending a portion of the panel
   8. The second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 rests on, and is preferably fastened to a
   plate 93 that rests on the connection flange 81, disposed below and parallel to the plate 93
10 and spaced from the latter through the use of damping elements 67. The ends of these
   damping elements are fastened to the plate 93 and the flange 81, by means of screws 96
   and nuts 66 respectively.
           It shall be understood that other ways of fastening the second end portion 62 of
   the load cell 6 are possible. For example the second end portion may be fixed to a flange,
15 which is in turn fixed to the back surface of the panel (not shown). The damping elements
   67 are optional and the provision of both a plate and a flange for attaching the second end
   62 of the load cell to the panel is also optional.
           As discussed in greater detail below, in certain embodiments, the panel 8 is
   preferably configured for connection with a support structure that is external to the dosing
20 device. For this purpose and according to the example of figures 2-4, the panel has
   connection elements 83 and 83'.
           Preferably, the main body 5 comprises a drive system 7 which is configured to
   move the closure member 54 between the open position and the closed position. The
   drive system 7 is connected to the load transfer structure 55. It will be appreciated that the
25 mass as measured by the load cell 6 is also inclusive of the mass of the drive system 7.
   Preferably, the drive system 7 comprises a motor 71 connected to the plate 54.
           In the embodiment as shown in Figures 1 to 4, the drive system 7 comprises a first
   pulley 72 driven by the motor 71, a second pulley 73 which is fixed to the pivot 88 and
   pivots relative thereto, to thereby rotate the closure member 54, and a drive belt 74 for
30 transferring the rotary motion from the first pulley 72 to the second pulley 73, i.e. from
   the motor 71 to the closure member 54, to thereby move the closure member 54 between

                                                18
   the open position and the closed position.
            In a further embodiment, as schematically shown in Figure 5, the drive system 7
   comprises a cogwheel 75 coupled to a motor 71, and a rack 76. The rack 76 cooperates
   with the cogwheel 75 to convert the rotary motion of the toothed wheel into a rectilinear
 5 motion, such that the motor 71 will move the closure member 54, for instance a plate,
   between the open position and the closed position in the direction B, in both ways. The
   direction of movement of the plate is horizontal, i.e. perpendicular to the main extent of
   the dispensing conduit 51. The arrow E indicates the direction of discharge of coffee
   grounds along the dispensing conduit.
10          The dosing device of the present disclosure is included in a grinding-dosing
   machine, which comprises a coffee bean grinding device.
            Preferably, the grinding-dosing machine comprises an electronic control unit (not
   shown in Figures 1-6) connected to the load cell 6 and to the drive system 7. The control
   unit is configured to actuate the drive system 7, and in particular the motor 71, to thereby
15 move the closure member 54 from the open position to the closed position and vice versa.
            Figure 6 is a perspective view of a coffee grinding-dosing machine, according to
   one embodiment. The grinding-dosing machine 1 comprises a coffee bean grinding
   device, or grinding device 2 and a dosing device, and particularly the dosing device 3
   according to the embodiment as shown in Figures 2-4. The same reference numerals
20 indicate the same elements or elements having the same function. It shall be understood
   that the machine may comprise a dosing device according to a different embodiment of
   the present disclosure.
            The grinding device 2 has known characteristics, some of which are described in
   any case, for better understanding of the operation of the dosing device 3.
25          The grinding-dosing machine comprises a vessel (not shown in figure 6), for
   instance formed as a hopper, in which coffee beans can be deposited for later grinding,
   and which can be coupled to a coupling member 86. The grinding device is in
   communication with the vessel to receive the deposited coffee beans therefrom. The
   grinding device comprises a grinder unit (not shown) which is designed to be driven by a
30 motor 21. Conventionally, the grinder unit comprises one or more grinding wheels (e.g. A
   pair of flat or cylindrical grinding wheels) or one or more relatively rotating blades for

                                                  19
   grinding coffee beans.
           The grinding-dosing machine 1 comprises a frame 95 that supports the bean
   containing vessel and the grinding device 2. The frame 95 comprises a base 94 upon
   which the machine lies. The coffee grounds are ejected from the grinder unit which is
 5 connected with the inlet 52 of the dispensing conduit 51 of the dosing device 3.
   Particularly, the grinder unit introduces coffee grounds into a connecting duct, e.g. a
   chute 87, connected to the conduit 51.
           An optional conduit 23 connects the conduit 51 to the upper surface of the
   grinder-doser 1 to afford cleaning thereof without disassembling the machine.
10         The machine 1 further comprises a retaining support 24, which is configured to
   support and/or mechanically connect a portafilter 4. For example, the retaining support is
   a fork, on which the portafilter is laid. Preferably, the outlet 53 of the conduit 51 faces the
   retaining support 24 to allow coffee grounds to be discharged into the portafilter that rests
   on or is connected to it, when the closure member 54 is in the open position. The dosing
15 device 3 is placed on the portafilter retaining support 24.
           The panel 8 is mounted in the housing of the machine 1 and is mechanically
   connected to a support structure of the machine 1, which is external to the dosing device.
   In Figure 6, the panel 8 is attached to a portion 22 of the frame 95 of the machine by
   means of connecting elements 83. In the embodiment of the figures, the panel 8
20 comprises additional connecting elements, e.g. coupling teeth 83', as shown in Figures 2
   and 4, for the panel 8 to be coupled to the base 94 of the grinding-dosing machine 1 and
   preferably, to an optional sealing flange 103 of the portafilter 4.
           In another embodiment, the panel 8 is only attached to the base 94 of the frame of
   the machine 1.
25         It shall be understood that the load transfer structure 55 may be supported and/or
   mechanically connected to a panel 8 having a configuration other than that shown in the
   figures or, as mentioned above, be supported and/or directly connected to a fixed
   structure external to the dosing device 3, such as a frame of a machine that houses the
   dosing device. In the latter case, the panel 8 will not be necessarily provided.
30         In one embodiment (not shown), the second end portion 62 is directly attached to
   a portion of frame 95 of the grinding-dosing machine.

                                                  20
           It shall be noted that, since the portafilter 4 is not designed to rest on any part of
   the main body 5 or the load cell 6, the dosing device 3 may be configured in such a
   manner that the mass of the main body 5 will remain substantially constant throughout
   the useful life of the dosing device 3 or at least for an extended use of the device.
 5         Figure 7 is a block diagram of a system for controlling grinding and weighing of
   the coffee grounds. The machine is equipped with an electronic control unit, e.g. a central
   processing unit, CPU 97, and a user interface 98 which is electronically connected to the
   control unit. Conventionally, the user interface may be a touch-screen display or a keypad
   through which the user can input commands and/or enter input data. The control unit,
10 which is usually housed in the machine and the user interface, typically arranged on an
   outer front panel of the machine for easy access by a user, are not shown in figure 6. The
   motor 21 of the grinder unit and the motor 71 which moves the closure member 54, as
   schematically shown in figure 7, are controlled by the CPU 97. The CPU is configured to
   receive electric measurement signals representative of the weight by the weight sensor 6
15 and to transmit control signals to the weight sensor, to the motor of the grinder unit 21
   and to the motor 71 for driving the closure member 54. The control signal lines from/to
   the CPU 97 are shown in Figure 7 by a dashed line.
           In one embodiment, the control unit controls the operation of the grinder unit of
   the grinding device 2, through the grinder motor 21. Namely, the control unit is
20 configured to start a grinding operation and stop a grinding operation when the weight of
   the coffee grounds attains a default value or when a default time interval expires. The
   default time and/or weight values may be either selected by the user or stored in the
   control unit. The default values, hereinafter also referred to as nominal values can be
   entered as input data that are received by the CPU or stored in the CPU. The nominal
25 weight and/or time values may vary according to the desired coffee recipe.
           The grinding-dosing machine may be equipped with means, known per se, for
   recognizing a portafilter, and the control unit is configured to associate different default
   coffee weight values with different portafilters. Figure 8 shows an exemplary portafilter
   100, which may have an identifier 101 (schematically shown), which is preferably
30 removable, and is preferably placed on the basket 102 for recognition by a sensor. While
   the identifier is shown in a lateral region of the basket of the portafilter, the identifier can

                                                  21
   be placed on the front of the basket 102 (not shown in Figure 8). The identifier 101 may
   be an optical identifier, such as a color or any other prior art means, such as a barcode, an
   inductive means or a mechanical code with which the recognition sensor interacts.
   Referring to figure 6, when the filter holder 100 is placed on the fork 24, a presence
 5 sensor (not shown), e.g. of inductive type, detects the presence of the portafilter. The
   presence sensor is configured to generate an electric presence signal and is connected
   with the CPU. A recognition sensor (not shown), e.g. placed below the sealing flange
   103, at the identifier of the portafilter, detects coffee grounds dispensing type, e.g. total
   mass to be dispensed and, optionally, the degree of grinding. The recognition sensor is
10 configured to generate an electric portafilter recognition signal. As the presence of the
   portafilter is detected, the presence sensor transmits an electric presence detection signal
   to the control unit. The CPU is configured to receive the portafilter identification signal in
   addition to the presence detection signal and, as upon reception of these signals, to
   control a grinding operation according to the dispensing type associated with the
15 identifier. Conventionally, the electronic control unit stores a data table that contains a
   plurality of identifier data associated with a respective plurality of portafilter identifiers,
   with each data identifier being associated with a nominal dose of coffee grounds.
           Preferably, before using the grinding-dosing machine, e.g. during the installation
   of the machine, an operator calibrates the dosing device for the load cell to read a zero
20 weight value when no coffee grounds are present in the dispensing conduit. Preferably,
   the operator sets a nominal coffee grounds weight value.
           In one embodiment, the operator enters a nominal weight value as an input data
   into the user interface 98 and starts a grinding operation for an initial configuration of the
   machine. The CPU is configured to receive the nominal weight value entered by the user
25 and, once the grinding operation has been selected, to carry out the operation with the
   plate in the closed position and to check the weight of coffee grounds on the plate, as the
   operation is being carried out. When the weight of the coffee that falls on the plate attains
   the nominal weight value that has been previously set, the grinding operation is stopped
   and the control unit is configured to determine the grinding time associated with the
30 nominal weight value and to store this value as a nominal grinding time value. The
   nominal weight value and the associated nominal grinding time value are stored in the

                                                  22
   CPU. The CPU is preferably configured for calculating, based on these values, a nominal
   mass throughput of coffee grounds, e.g. in grams per second.
           The CPU is preferably configured to store a plurality of nominal weights of coffee
   grounds associated with a corresponding plurality of nominal grinding times, for example
 5 depending on the type of beverage to be prepared. According to the nominal weight
   values stored, the control unit may be configured to determine a respective plurality of
   mass throughputs or grinding times. If a plurality of types of beverages are provided, the
   control unit is preferably configured to create an input data table, listing nominal weight
   values and associated nominal mass throughput (or nominal grinding time) values, for
10 each type of beverage, as acquired as a result of respective calibration operations.
           The selection of the type of beverage and hence the selection of the nominal
   weight, time and possibly mass throughput, may be made manually or through automatic
   recognition of the portafilter, as described above.
           After the initial configuration of the machine, and according to one embodiment
15 of the machine, the latter works "on demand" and the dosing device operates with the
   coffee grounds dispensing conduit always open, namely the control unit is configured to
   hold the plate in the open position. In this mode, the dispensed dose is a function of the
   grinding time stored in the machine for a particular type of beverage.
           The Applicant found that during use of the grinding-dosing machine in a
20 dispensing mode that relies on the grinding time, the operating conditions may change
   over time of use of the machine, which will allow the dispensed dose to no longer
   correspond to the desired dose set by a user or stored in the machine.
           Preferably, the weight       of coffee grounds being       dispensed   is controlled
   automatically. In an "on demand" mode of use of the grinding-dosing machine, such
25 control may be actuated after a given time of use of the machine (e.g. after a few hours,
   one day or one week). The weight of the dispensed dose may be controlled in a single
   dispensing operation or, in a preferred embodiment, over a plurality of dispensing
   operations.
           In one embodiment, the electronic control unit is configured to:
30         (a) setting the closed position of the plate;
           (b) receiving input data indicative of the type of beverage (e.g. single espresso,

                                                  23
   double espresso, American coffee), said input data being associated with a nominal
   coffee grounds weight value, WN, and with a first grinding time value, ti, that have been
   stored and, preferably, calculating a nominal mass throughput, Q,= Wj/ti;
           (c) controlling a grinding operation having a duration equal to the first grinding
 5 time value, ti;
           (d) measuring an actual coffee grounds weight value, Wr, at the end of the
   grinding operation;
           (e) comparing the actual weight value Wr with the nominal weight value W";
           (f) based on the result of the comparison, if the value Wr differs from W" above a
10 predetermined threshold value, determining a value of the actual mass throughput, Q,=
   Wr/ti, based on the actual weight value and the first grinding time value, and
           (g) setting the grinding time to a second grinding time value, t 2 , to obtain the
   nominal value of the dose of coffee grounds, W,. The second grinding time value is
   calculated based on the value of the actual mass throughput, T2=Wn/Qr.
15         The second grinding time value, t 2 , is stored in the control unit in place of the first
   grinding time value.
           The first grinding time value, ti, may correspond to the nominal time value that
   has been set in the machine upon calibration.
           The electronic control unit may be configured to record the actual weight value
20 Wr before comparing this value with the nominal weight value W".
           The steps (a) and (b) may be exchanged in order.
           The step (d) is carried out by receiving an electric measurement signal generated
   by the weight sensor, and representative of the actual weight value.
           Preferably, the control unit is configured to control the opening movement of the
25 plate, after the step (d). It shall be understood that the plate may be moved to the open
   position after one of the steps following the step (d).
           Preferably, the control unit is configured to control a new grinding operation for a
   the grinding time equal to the second grinding time, t 2 , once the conduit has been opened.
           The mode of operation of the grinding-dosing machine as described above with
30 reference to steps (a) to (g) may be used to check calibration of the machine and/or
   proper operation of the grinding-dosing machine. The operator can start the automatic

                                               24
   procedure comprising the steps (a) to (g) by selecting a command in the user interface.
   With no request being made by the user, the plate 54 is kept open, and the coffee is
   ground for a default stored time, which may selected according to the beverage type.
   Upon request by the user, the plate 54 closes for a single grinding operation, allowing the
 5 weight of the coffee grounds to be measured and a new grinding time to be stored. Once
   the operator has checked that the correct mass has been dispensed in one dose, he/she
   may switch the grinding-dosing machine back to the "on demand" operation, with the
   closure member 54 always open during grinding and preferably between successive
   grinding operations.
10         In the above described mode of operation, the "correct" grinding time is calculated
   based on a previous grinding operation. For example, if the nominal mass throughput
   value Q,   is 2 g/s and the nominal weight value W, is 10 grams of coffee, the nominal
   grinding time initially set in the control unit is t,=ti= 5 seconds. If, after a grinding
   operation, the measured weight value is Wr= 7 grams (other than the nominal weight), the
15 mass throughput, for the nominal time of 5 seconds, is Qr=1, 4 g/s. In order to obtain the
   nominal weight of 10 g, the grinding time will be adjusted to a value t 2 =7 seconds, which
   accounts for the mass throughput change.
           Preferably, the stored time is changed if the measured weight of the coffee
   grounds differs from the value of the nominal weight by at least a default threshold value
20 of 10%, more preferably of 7%.
          According to a further embodiment, the weight of the coffee grounds is measured
   after a plurality N of dispensing operations of doses associated with the same
   dispensing/drink type. In this embodiment, the grinding-dosing machine is configured to
   open and close the closure member at each dispensing operation for the plurality of
25 dispensing operations associated with the same dispensing type. The control unit is
   configured to store a nominal weight value, WN, and a nominal grinding time value, tn,
   and to determine a nominal mass throughput value,         Q,=   Wo/to. The control unit is
   configured to: i) move the closure member to the closed position, ii) carry out a grinding
   operation having a duration equal to the nominal grinding time t, such that the coffee
30 grounds will deposit on the closure member; (iii) receive a measurement signal
   representative of the actual weight value of coffee grounds built up on the closure

                                                 25
   member at the end of the grinding operation and record the actual value of the measured
   weight, WR, and (iv) move the closure member to the open position to discharge the
   coffee grounds.
           The control unit is configured to carry out the operating steps (i) to (iv) for N
 5 grinding operations, to thereby record, for each operation, an actual measured weight
   value, WR
           Then, at the end of a plurality N of grinding operations and storage of a respective
   plurality of actual weight values (WR)i with i=1,...,N, the electronic control unit is
   configured to calculate a respective plurality of values of mass throughput (Qr), based on
10 the actual measured weight values and the nominal grinding time, t", and to calculate the
   average mass throughput value Q of the plurality of values of the mass throughput and the
   average actual dose value, Wr. Preferably, N ranges from 2 to 10, e.g. 5.
           If the average weight Wr deviates from the nominal weight value W, is above a
   predetermined threshold value, the control unit is configured to adjust the grinding time
15 to a grinding time value that has been determined by the ratio of the nominal weight, WN
   to the average mass throughput value Q. Preferably, the predetermined threshold value
   for deviation between the nominal weight and the average actual value is 10%, more
   preferably 7%.
           Since one or more of the operating conditions of the machine might change during
20 the time of use thereof, the above discussed procedure can provide a new grinding time
   value that more closely corresponds to the desired dose of coffee grounds. Said
   determined grinding time is stored in the control unit for later coffee grounds dispensing
   operations.
           The mode of operation of the grinding-dosing machine as described above with
25 the dispensed dose being weighed for a plurality of N grinding operations, may be used to
   check calibration of the machine and/or proper operation of the grinding-dosing machine.
   The operator may start the automatic procedure by selecting a control in the user
   interface. In certain embodiments, with no request being made by the user, the plate 54 is
   kept open, and the coffee is ground for a default stored time, which may selected
30 according to the beverage type. Upon request by the user, the plate 54 closes and opens
   for a plurality N of grinding operations for a beverage type, and a new grinding time for

                                                  26
   that beverage type is later stored. Once the operator has checked that the correct average
   mass has been dispensed in a plurality of doses, he/she may switch the grinding-dosing
   machine back to the "on demand" operation, with the closure member 54 always open
   during grinding and preferably between successive grinding operations.
 5         Since the N dispensing operations from which the average weight value has to be
   calculated and the actual average mass throughput are associated with a given type of
   beverage and hence with a given nominal dose value, such plurality of dispensing
   operations may not be successive. For example, two types of dispensing operations are
   provided, i.e. dose A (e.g. single espresso) and dose B (e.g. double espresso or two single
10 espressos). Depending on requirements, the grinding-dosing machine, which has been set
   in weight control mode, is controlled to successively dispense 3 doses A of coffee, 4
   doses B of coffee and 2 doses A. If the number N of dispensing operations for the dose A,
   designed for average weight control has been set to 5, at the end of the last dispensing
   operation for the dose A, the control unit carries out the above described averaging
15 procedure and stores the actual grinding time value, if any, as a new nominal grinding
   time value.
           In the above described mode of operation, the "correct" grinding time is calculated
   based on N previous grinding operations.
           In a conventional grinding-dosing machine, the coffee powder is collected in a
20 container. This filling operation may be carried out automatically or manually and the
   coffee grounds content typically ranges from 100 to 200 grams. While the use of such
   grinding-dosing machine provides the advantage of allowing the portafilter to be filled
   with coffee powder in a relatively short time, the permanence of the coffee grounds in the
   collection container, for a relatively long time and in the presence of air and moisture, can
25 cause a degradation of the organoleptic characteristics of coffee.
           The Applicant found that, while an "on demand" grinding-dosing machine does
   not involve coffee grounds build-up, instant grinding of coffee causes the dispensing time
   for a dose of coffee grounds to be longer than the time required for the ejection of coffee
   grounds from a collection container. By way of illustration and example, the preparation
30 of a dose for a single espresso takes approximately 2 seconds in an "on demand"
   machine, whereas 0.5 seconds are required for ejection of coffee grounds from a

                                                 27
   collection container in a conventional grinder-doser. In case of peak demands of coffee in
   a bar or restaurant, the coffee grounds dispensing times in an "on demand" machine
   might cause delays in beverage preparation.
           The Applicant realized that if the grinding-dosing machine is configured to have a
 5 buffer dose available when a grinding operation is requested, then the times required for
   obtaining the doses of coffee grounds for beverage preparation can be shortened.
           In a further mode of operation of the machine, the electronic control unit is
   configured to maintain the closure member of the dispensing conduit always in the closed
   position and to control opening thereof only upon dispensing of coffee powder into the
10 portafilter. Upon the ejection of coffee grounds from the conduit, the control unit
   instructs closing of the dispensing conduit and grinding of a buffer dose of coffee that
   builds up in the dispensing conduit.
           The coffee grounds dispensing conduit always contains a specific amount of
   coffee powder, i.e. the buffer dose, which may have been determined by the operator
15 during calibration. For example, the buffer dose is the minimum dose for preparing a
   beverage of the plurality of beverages, e.g. a single dose for an espresso.
           Once a dose of coffee has been ejected the control unit 97 is configured to carry
   out a grinding operation to obtain a buffer dose in the conduit 51.
           Preferably, the grinding-dosing machine comprises a presence sensor configured
20 to detect the presence of the portafilter 4 on the fork 24 and removal thereof from the fork
   once dispensing has been completed. After removal of the portafilter 4, the control unit
   97 starts a grinding operation to obtain a new buffer dose in the conduit 51.
           The buffer dose in the conduit may be restored after a given time, i.e. the grinding
   operation has a predetermined duration, which is equal to a first grinding time stored in
25 the control unit, or based on weight control during dispensing.
           In case of buffer dose dispensing with weight control, during the grinding
   operation for build-up of a buffer dose, the electronic control unit is configured to:
   continuously receive signals representative of the weight of coffee grounds built up on
   the closure member while coffee grounds are discharged through the conduit,
30 continuously comparing the coffee grounds weight values associated with the received
   signals, with the buffer weight value and stopping the grinding device when a measured

                                                  28
   weight value is equal to the buffer weight value.
            When the user selects a beverage via the user interface 98 or when the recognition
   sensor, if an identifier is present in the portafilter, detects the coffee grounds dispensing
   type, the electronic unit 97 checks whether the dispensing type corresponds to the buffer
 5 dose that is already present on the closure member 54. If it does, the control unit instructs
   the closure member 54 to open and the coffee powder is moved into the portafilter. If it
   does not, the control unit actuates the grinding device and carries out a second grinding
   operation for a time that can provide the nominal dose value that has been selected by the
   user.
10          If the dose required to prepare a selected beverage is a multiple of the buffer dose,
   e.g. if the buffer dose corresponds to a single dose and the filter of the portafilter to be
   filled corresponds to a double dose, a new dispensing operation has to be carried out to
   dispense coffee into the dispensing conduit 51. Here, the time required to obtain a double
   dose is reduced to about one half, which improves effectiveness of coffee grounds
15 production for beverage preparation.
            In one embodiment, when the central electronic unit detects the presence of the
   portafilter by receiving a signal from the presence sensor, the unit actuates the user
   interface. In the user interface 98, the user selects the button that corresponds to the
   desired dose by actuating the grinding operation via the control unit, i.e. by actuating the
20 grinder unit. If the machine also comprises a recognition sensor, the electronic unit will
   actuate the motor 21 of the grinder unit according to the dose associated with the
   identifier. During the grinding operation, the plate 54 is kept in the closed position. The
   grinding operation continues until the load cell senses the weight associated with the
   selected dose. At the end of the grinding operation, the central unit instructs the plate to
25 open for discharging the dose into the portafilter, and then to close, and starts a grinding
   operation for dispensing a buffer dose that builds up again on the plate, waiting for a new
   request for dispensing of a coffee dose.
            Another embodiment does not include weight sensing during the grinding
   operation for dispensing a given dose, but includes a grinding operation for a
30 predetermined grinding time. Such predetermined time is calculated as a difference
   between the dispensing time associated with the desired dose and the dispensing time

                                                 29
   associated with the buffer dose.
           In one embodiment, the control unit is configured to control the weight of the
   buffer dose by receiving a weight signal from the load cell as the buffer dose has been
   completely dispensed on the plate. Thus, the buffer dose is monitored to avoid undesired
 5 deviations.
           Certain embodiments provide adjustment of the grinding time as required to
   obtain a buffer dose if the latter deviates from a nominal value beyond a predetermined
   threshold value.
           Preferably, a method is provided of controlling the buffer dose of coffee, which
10 comprises:
       -   receiving a measurement signal representative of an actual weight value of coffee
           grounds built up on the closure member, the signal being generated at the end of
           the grinding operation, for dispensing a buffer dose having a buffer weight value;
       -   comparing the measured actual weight value with the stored buffer weight value
15         and, based on the result of the comparison, if the measured actual weight value
           differs from the buffer weight value to an extent exceeding a predetermined
           threshold value, calculating a mass throughput value based on the actual weight
           value and the first grinding time;
       -   calculating a grinding time value based on the calculated mass throughout value
20         to obtain the buffer coffee grounds dose value, and
       -   storing the calculated grinding time value as the new grinding time value
           associated with the buffer weight value.
           It shall be understood that a person skilled in the art can make many changes
   equivalent to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the
25 accompanying claims.

                                           30
                                        Claims
   1. A method of controlling dispensing of coffee grounds from a grinding-dosing
      machine (1), the machine comprising a grinding device (2) which is configured to
 5    grind coffee beans, a dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in
      communication with the grinding device for receiving coffee grounds, and an
      outlet (53), a closure member (54) which is adapted to be removed between an
      open position for the coffee grounds to be discharged from the conduit through
      the outlet (53), and a closed position for closing the outlet, and a coffee grounds
10    weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals representative of the
      weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when the closure
      member is in the closed position, the method comprising:
      a) storing a nominal weight value of coffee grounds;
      b) storing a nominal grinding time value associated with the nominal weight
15        value;
      c) placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
      d) operating the grinding device (2) for discharging coffee grounds through the
          dispensing conduit (51) onto the closure member (54) for a time equal to the
          nominal grinding time value, in a first grinding operation;
20    e) at the end of the first grinding operation, receiving a measurement signal
          representative of an actual weight value of coffee grounds built-up on the
          closure member (54);
      f) comparing the actual weight value with the stored nominal weight value and,
          based on the result of the comparison, if the measured actual weight value
25        defers from the nominal weight value to an extent exceeding a predetermined
          threshold value, calculating a mass throughput based on the actual weight
          value and the nominal grinding time value;
      g) based on the calculated mass throughput value, calculating an actual grinding
          time value to obtain the nominal value of the coffee grounds dose, and
30    h) storing the actual grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time value.

                                                   31
   2. A method as claimed in claim 1 which comprises, after the step a) and before the step
   d), receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing, associated with the
   nominal weight value of coffee grounds, wherein the step d) of operating the grinding
   device is carried out in response to the reception of said input data.
 5
   3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, which further comprises:
          - after the step e), placing the closure member (54) in the open position, and
          - after the step h), and after said step of placing the closure member (54) in the open
          position:
10             receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing, associated with the
               nominal weight value of coffee grounds, and
               in response to the reception of said input data, operating the grinding device (2)
               for a time equal to the nominal grinding time, in a second grinding operation,
               while maintaining the closure member (54) in the open position to discharge
15             the coffee grounds from the dispensing conduit (51) during the second grinding
               operation.
   4. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, which further comprises, after the step e) and
   before the step f),
20      - placing the closure member (54) in the open position to discharge the coffee
        grounds weighed at the end of the first grinding operation from the dispensing
        conduit (51);
        - repeating the steps c) to e) (N-1) times, with N>2, to receive N actual weight values
        at the end of N respective grinding operations and placing the closure member (54)
25      in the open position at the end of each of the (N-1) grinding operations following the
        first grinding operation;
        - calculating a respective mass throughput value based on each of the N actual
       weight values and the nominal grinding time value, to obtain N mass throughput
       values;
30      - calculating an average mass throughput value from the N mass throughput values
        and an average weight value from the N actual weight values,

                                                 32
        wherein the steps f) and g) are replaced by:
         - comparing the average weight value with the stored nominal weight value and, if
        the average weight value differs from the nominal weight value to an extent
         exceeding a predetermined threshold value, calculating an average grinding time
 5      value, defined as a ratio of the nominal weight value to the calculated average mass
        throughput value, and
        wherein the step h) is replaced by:
         - storing the average grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time value.
10 5. A method as claimed in one of the preceding claims, which further comprises, after the
   step a) and before the step b),
       -     operating the grinding device (2) for discharging coffee grounds through the
             dispensing conduit (51) onto the closure member (54);
       -     continuously receiving measurement signals representative of the weight of the
15           coffee grounds built up on the closure member during discharge of the coffee
             grounds through the dispensing conduit (51);
       -     continuously comparing the weight values of the coffee grounds, associated with
             the received measurement signals, with the nominal weight value of the coffee
             grounds;
20     -     stopping the grinding device as soon as a weight value measured by the sensor is
             equal to the nominal weight value, and
       -     determining a nominal grinding time value equal to the duration of the completed
             grinding operation,
       wherein the step b) comprises storing said nominal grinding time value.
25
   6. A method as claimed in claim 5 which further comprises, between the step b) and the
   step c):
       -     placing the closure member (54) in the open position, for the coffee grounds to be
             discharged.
30
   7. A method as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the grinding-dosing

                                                 33
   machine (1) further comprises a retaining support (24) which is configured to support
   and/or mechanically connect a portafilter (4; 100), wherein the outlet (53) of the
   dispensing conduit (51) is placed above and faces the retaining support (24), for the
   coffee grounds to be discharged into the portafilter (4; 100) when the closure member
 5 (54) is in the open position.
   8. A method as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the weight sensor is a
   load cell (6) and the dispensing conduit (51) and the closure member (54) are connected
   to the load cell (6) to be supported on the load cell (6) in hanging relation.
10
   9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the load cell (6) is configured to indicate a
   zero weight if no coffee grounds are contained in the dispensing conduit (51).
   10. A grinding-dosing machine, comprising
15     - a grinding device (2) comprising a grinder unit, which is driven by a grinder motor
       (21) to grind coffee beans,
       - a dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in communication with the grinding
       device for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet (53),
       - a closure member (54) situated at the outlet (53) of the dispensing conduit (51) and
20     adapted to be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be
       discharged from the conduit and a closed position for closing the outlet (53),
       - a drive system (7) which is coupled to the closure member (54) to cause the closure
       member (54) to move between the open position and the closed position and
       - a coffee grounds weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals
25     representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when
       the closure member (54) is in the closed position;
       - an electronic control unit connected to the grinder motor (21), to the weight sensor
       (6) and to the drive system (7) of the closure member (54), the electronic control unit
       being configured to:
30      a) store a nominal weight value of coffee grounds;
        b) storing a nominal grinding time value associated with the nominal weight value;

                                                34
       c) placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
       d) performing a grinding operation by actuating the grinder motor (21) for a time
           equal to the nominal grinding time value;
       e) receive a signal generated at the end of the grinding operator from the weight
 5         sensor (6), which is representative of an actual weight value of the coffee grounds
           built up on the closure member (54);
       f) compare the measured actual weight value with the stored nominal weight value
           and, based on the result of the comparison, if the measured actual weight value
           defers from the nominal weight value to an extent exceeding a predetermined
10         threshold value, and determining a mass throughput value based on the actual
           weight value and the nominal grinding time value;
       g) based on the calculated mass throughput value, calculate an actual grinding time
           value to obtain the nominal weight value of the coffee grounds, and
       h) storing said actual grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time value.
15
   11. A machine as claimed in claim 10, wherein the weight sensor is a load cell (6) and the
   dispensing conduit (51) and the closure member (54) are connected to the load cell (6) to
   be supported on the load cell (6) in hanging relation, and preferably the load cell (6) is
   configured to indicate a zero weight if no coffee grounds are contained in the dispensing
20 conduit (51).
   12. A method of controlling dispensing of coffee grounds from a grinding-dosing
   machine, the machine comprising a grinding device (2) which is configured to grind
   coffee beans, a dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in communication with the
25 grinding device for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet (53), a closure member (54)
   which is adapted to be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be
   discharged from the conduit through the outlet (53), and a closed position for closing the
   outlet, and a coffee grounds weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals
   representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when the
30 closure member is in the closed position, the method comprising:
       (i)     storing a nominal weight value of the coffee grounds and a nominal grinding

                                                   35
               time value, which are associated with a type of coffee-based beverage,
       (ii)    placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
       (iii)   operating the grinding device (2) for discharging coffee grounds through the
               dispensing conduit (51) onto the closure member (54) for a time equal to the
 5             nominal grinding time value;
       (iv)    receiving a measurement signal representative of an actual weight value of
               coffee grounds built-up on the closure member at the end of the grinding
               operation;
       (v)     recording said measured actual weight value;
10     (vi)    moving the closure member (54) to the open position for the coffee grounds to
               be discharged;
       (vii)   repeating the steps (ii) to (vi) a plurality (N-1) of times, with N>2, to record a
               plurality of N actual weight values at the end of N respective grinding
               operations;
15     (viii)  calculating a respective plurality of mass throughput values based on the
               plurality N of actual weight values and the nominal grinding time value;
       (ix)    calculating an average mass throughput value from the plurality N of mass
               throughput values and an average weight value from the plurality N of
               measured actual weight values;
20     (x)     comparing the average weight value with the stored nominal weight value and,
               if the average weight value differs from the nominal weight value to an extent
               exceeding a predetermined threshold value, calculating an average grinding
               time value, defined as a ratio of the nominal weight value to the calculated
               average mass throughput value, and
25     (xi)    storing said average grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time
               value.
   13. A grinding-dosing machine, comprising
      - a grinding device (2) comprising a grinder unit, which is driven by a grinder motor
30    (21) to grind coffee beans,
      - a dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in communication with the grinding

                                                36
   device (2) for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet (53),
   - a closure member (54) which is adapted to be removed between an open position for
   the coffee grounds to be discharged from the conduit through the outlet (53) and a
   closed position for closing the outlet,
 5 - a drive system (7) which is coupled to the closure member (54) to cause the closure
   member (54) to move between the open position and the closed position and
   - a coffee grounds weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals
   representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when
   the closure member is in the closed position;
10 - an electronic control unit connected to the grinder motor (21), to the weight sensor
   (6) and to the drive system (7) of the closure member (54), the electronic control unit
   being configured to:
    (i)     store a nominal weight value of the coffee grounds and a nominal grinding
            time value, which are associated with a type of coffee-based beverage,
15  (ii)    move the closure member to the closed position;
    (iii)   perform a grinding operation by actuating the grinder motor (21) for a time
            equal to the nominal grinding time value;
    (iv)    at the end of the grinding operation, receiving a measurement signal
            representative of an actual weight value of coffee grounds built-up on the
20          closure member;
    (v)     record said measured actual weight value;
    (vi)    move the closure member (54) to the open position for the coffee grounds to
            be discharged;
    (vii)   repeating the steps (ii) to (vi) a plurality (N-1) of times, with N>2, to record a
25          plurality of N actual weight values at the end of N respective grinding
            operations;
    (viii)  calculating a respective plurality of mass throughput values based on the
            plurality N of actual weight values and the nominal grinding time value;
    (ix)    calculating an average mass throughput value from the plurality N of mass
30          throughput values and an average weight value from the plurality N of
            measured actual weight values;

                                                 37
       (x)      compare the average weight value with the stored nominal weight value and,
                if the average weight value differs from the nominal weight value to an extent
                exceeding a predetermined threshold value, calculating an average grinding
                time value, defined as a ratio of the nominal weight value to the calculated
 5              average mass throughput value, and
       (xi)     store said average grinding time value as a new nominal grinding time value.
   14. A method of dispensing a dose of coffee grounds from a grinding-dosing machine (1),
   the machine comprising a grinding device (2) which is configured to grind coffee beans, a
10 dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) in communication with the grinding device
   for receiving coffee grounds, and an outlet (53), a closure member (54) which is adapted
   to be removed between an open position for the coffee grounds to be discharged from the
   conduit through the outlet (53), and a closed position for closing the outlet, the method
   comprising:
15     -    storing a buffer weight value and a first grinding time value associated with the
            buffer weight value;
       -    placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
       -    carrying out a first grinding operation, by operating the grinding device (2) for a
            time equal to the first grinding time, for discharging coffee grounds through the
20          dispensing conduit (51) so that the amount of coffee grounds that build up on the
            closure member (54) corresponds to the buffer weight value;
       -    receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing, associated with a
            nominal weight value of coffee grounds;
            comparing the received nominal weight value input with the buffer weight value;
25     -    based on the comparison result, if the nominal weight value corresponds to the
            buffer weight value, placing the closure member (54) in the open position to
            discharge the coffee grounds built up at the end of the first grinding operation
            through the outlet (53) of the dispensing conduit (51);
       -    based on the comparison result, if the nominal weight value is greater than the
30          buffer weight value, carrying out the following steps:
              -     with the closure member (54) maintained in the closed position, carrying

                                                 38
                 out a second grinding operation by operating the grinding device (2) to
                 discharge coffee grounds through the conduit (51) onto the closure member
                 (54);
             -   stopping the grinding device when the built-up coffee is equal to the
 5               nominal weight value, or at the end of a grinding time associated with the
                 nominal weight value, and
             -   placing the closure member (54) in the open position to discharge the coffee
                 grounds built up at the end of the first and second grinding operations
                 through the outlet (53) of the conduit (51).
10
   15. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the grinding-dosing machine (1) further
   comprises a retaining support (24) for a portafilter (4; 100), which is configured to
   support and/or mechanically connect a portafilter, wherein the outlet (53) of the
   dispensing conduit (51) is placed above and faces the retaining support (24), for the
15 coffee grounds to be discharged into the portafilter (4; 100) when the portafilter is placed
   on the retaining support (24) and the closure member (54) is in the open position.
   16. A method as claimed in claim 14 or 15, wherein the grinding-dosing machine (1)
   further comprises a weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals
20 representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the dispensing conduit when the
   closure member is in the closed position, the method comprising, during the second
   grinding operation:
       -   continuously receiving measurement signals representative of the weight of the
           coffee grounds built up on the closure member (54) during discharge of the coffee
25         grounds through the dispensing conduit (51), and
       -   continuously comparing the weight values of the coffee grounds, associated with
           the received measurement signals, with the nominal weight value of the coffee
           grounds, wherein
   the grinding device is stopped as soon as a weight value measured by the sensor is equal
30 to the nominal weight value.

                                                 39
   17. A method as claimed in one of claims 14 and 15, which further comprises, after
   receiving input data requesting coffee grounds dispensing,
       -   associating a nominal grinding time value with the nominal weight value of coffee
           grounds, and
 5     -   calculating a second grinding time as a difference between the nominal grinding
           time value and the first grinding time, wherein
   the second grinding operation is carried out for a time equal to the second grinding time
   and the grinding device is stopped at the end of the second grinding time.
10 18. A method as claimed in one of claims 14 to 17, which comprises, after discharging
   the coffee grounds built up at the end of the first grinding operation or between the first
   and the second grinding operations, trough the outlet (53) of the dispensing conduit (51):
       -   placing the closure member (54) in the closed position;
       -   carrying out a first grinding operation, by operating the grinding device (2) for a
15         time equal to the first grinding time, so that the amount of coffee grounds that
           build up on the closure member (54) corresponds to the buffer weight value.
   19. A method as claimed in one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the machine further
   comprises a coffee grounds weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate
20 measurement signals representative of the weight of coffee grounds built-up in the
   dispensing conduit (51) when the closure member is in the closed position, the method
   comprising, after carrying out a first grinding operation and before receiving input data
   requesting coffee grounds dispensing:
           receiving a measurement signal representative of an actual weight value of coffee
25         grounds built-up on the closure member at the end of the first grinding operation;
       -   comparing the measured actual weight value with the stored buffer weight value
           and, based on the result of the comparison, if the measured actual weight value
           defers from the buffer weight value to an extent exceeding a predetermined
           threshold value, and calculating a mass throughput value based on the actual
30         weight value and the first grinding time;
       -   calculating a grinding time value based on the calculated mass throughout value

                                                 40
           to obtain the buffer coffee grounds dose value, and
       -   storing the calculated grinding time value as the new first grinding time value for
           the first grinding operation.
 5 20. A method as claimed in one of claims 14 to 19, wherein the grinding-dosing machine
   (1) further comprises a weight sensor (6), which is configured to generate signals
   representative of the weight of the coffee grounds built up in the dispensing conduit when
   the closure member is in the closed position, the weight sensor being a load cell (6)
   connected to the dispensing conduit (51) and to the closure member (54) so that the load
10 cell (6) supports the dispensing conduit (51) and the closure member (54) in hanging
   relation, wherein the load cell (6) is preferably configured to indicate a zero weight if no
   coffee grounds are contained in the dispensing conduit (51).

                                          1/7
                                          1/7
<removed-date>
                                 52                            3
                                      5
                                            7
<removed-apn>
                            71
                   51
                                                          74
                   57                           65        77 57
                                                                   63    6
                        55                                                     A
                        64
                       61
                                                                                   62
                                                                                        96
                                                                                        93
                   73                                                         67
                       53
                                                                              66
              A                                                          57
                  91
                                                                        92
                                 54       88
              99
                                                                   90
                                                     89
                                      Fig. 1

                                         2/7
                                        2/7
                                   52
<removed-date>
                             51                              3
                                               7
                             5                     71
                             83
                                                        55
<removed-apn>
                                                         83
              65
                       64                                             55
                       61
                                                                       96
                                                                                93
                       53
                                                                           63
                       54                                        89
                                                                       90
                       83<U+2720>
                                                                           91
                   8
                                  83<U+2720>
                                   Fig. 2

                                                  3/7
                                                 3/7
                                           52
<removed-date>
                                                                                3
                             5
                        71                                   72
                                                                                    83
                                                                  51
<removed-apn>
                    7
                                                              74
                                 55
                                                                   57
                         57
                                                 84                85
                                                                       6
                                                                  62
                                      82
                             81                                            93
                                                              85
                                                                  67
              96                                             66
                   90
                                 84         57
                                                                                     3
                                                       83<U+2720>
                                                 Fig. 3

                                        4/7
                                       4/7
                                  52
<removed-date>
                             71
                                                72                                  3
              7
                                                 74
                                                 55
<removed-apn>
                       51
                  5                                             57
                                                                84
                                                           85
                            92                                  63
                                                                           6
                             64
                        61                                       62
                                                                               93
                                                                      67
                                                                 66
                  91                                  81
                                                                      8
                                                     83<U+2720>
                                       Fig. 4

                             5/7
                            5/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                            51
                                          7
                        E
                                              76
                                     B
              53
                                                   75
                   54
                                         71
                            Fig. 5

                                                  6/7
                                                  6/7
<removed-date>
                                     1
                                87                                   86
                    23
<removed-apn>          52
                                                                 95
                                                                 2
                   22
              83                                                     21
                           51
                   5
                                                                 6
                        53
               54
                       3
              103
                                                            94
                                                        8
                                         24   4
                                              Fig. 6

                                       7/7
                                       7/7
<removed-date>
                   6
              98                                       97
<removed-apn>
                       UI                        CPU
                                                       21
                            71
                                       Fig. 7
                                                102
                   101
                                 100
                                       Fig. 8

