                                                Abstract
The present invention relates to a method for preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due to energy
failure in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a gene that can effectively restore
energy. More particularly, the method relates to cardiomyopathy associated with Friedrich ataxia and
wherein the vector comprises a fraxtaxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
     METHODS AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION FOR THE TREATMENT
     AND THE PREVENTION OF CARDIOMYOPATHY DUE TO ENERGY FAILURE
 5         FIELD OF THE INVENTION:
           The present invention relates a method for preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due
   to energy failure in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a
   therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a
 0 gene that can restore energy failure.
           More particularly, the invention relates to a method for preventing or treating a
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof, comprising
   administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 5
           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:
           Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), an autosomal progressive recessive neurodegenerative
   disorder associated     with cardiomyopathy,     is caused by reduced expression of the
 0 mitochondrial protein, frataxin [V. Campuzano et al., 1996 and V. Campuzano et al., 1997].
   The cardiomopathy associated with FRDA is hypertrophic. As the disease progresses, there is
   a natural transition from hypertrophy to dilation, with death of cardiomyocytes replaced by
   fibrotic tissue leading to systolic and diastolic dysfunction [R. M. Payne et al., 2012].
   Impaired myocardial perfusion reserve index (MPRI)             associated with microvascular
25 dysfunction and fibrosis occurs even prior to the onset of overt cardiomyopathy. Consistent
   with impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain function that leads to energy deficit,
   phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy shows reduced ATP production in patient heart,
   which strongly correlates with the degree of cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac dysfunction,
   predisposing to congestive heart failure and supraventricular arrhythmias, is the primary mode
30 of death in ~60% of patients with FRDA.
           Although the function of frataxin is still under investigation, available evidences
   support a role as an activator of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster biogenesis in mitochondria [C. L.
   Tsai et al., 2010 and Schmucker et al., 2012]. In particular, frataxin was recently shown to

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   control iron delivery for de novo Fe-S cluster biogenesis through activation of cysteine
   desulfurase activity [Colin et al., 2013].
            Fe-S clusters are essential prosthetic groups for many proteins with a variety of
   functions and subcellular localizations. Frataxin deficiency leads to impairment of Fe-S
 5 cluster-containing proteins, altered cellular iron metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction and
   increased sensitivity to oxidative stress. Most mitochondrial and biochemical defects
   identified in human patients have been recapitulated in mouse models of FRDA [H. Puccio et
   al., 2001 and Simon et al. et al., 2004], providing valuable models for testing potential
   therapeutic interventions. Particularly, the MCK conditional mouse model, with complete
 0 frataxin deletion in cardiac and skeletal muscle, recapitulates the cardiomyopathy observed in
   FRDA patients with a more rapidly progressive course [H. Puccio et al., 2001 and H. Seznec
   et al., 2004]. Furthermore, the MCK mouse demonstrated that hypertrophy and mitochondrial
   Fe-S cluster protein defects precede mitochondrial iron accumulation and increase sensitivity
   to oxidative stress.
 5          To date, no treatment exists for stopping or slowing down the cardiomyopathy of
   FRDA. Current therapeutic approaches in clinical use or under evaluation are directed at
   alleviating symptoms and maximizing quality of life [R. B. Wilson 2012]. Thus, there is an
   important need for a novel therapeutic approach to treat cardiomyopathy associated with
   Friedreich ataxia.
 0
            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION:
            In the present invention, the therapeutic effect of an AVVrhI0 vector carrying a
   human frataxin cDNA on the cardiac phenotype in a mammalian model of FRDA
25 cardiomyopathy was investigated. The results showed that delivery of a vector encoding
   hFXN resulted in i) prevention of the development of disease symptoms in asymptomatic
   individuals and ii) reversal of disease symptoms in individuals who already exhibited
   cardiomyopathy, mitochondrial dysfunction and the biochemical impairment associated with
   frataxin deficiency. Of particular note is that the inventors showed that delivery of a vector
30 encoding hFXN resulted in a rapid reversal of the mitochondrial abnormalities leading to
   arrest of the cardiac fibrosis, restoration of the cardiac contractile apparatus and complete
   restoration of cardiac function.
            More generally, the inventors show that by restoring an essential mitochondrial
   function with the use of the nuclear-encoded FXN gene, and thereby increasing the energy

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   production of the mitochondria, the myocardium function can be restored and the interstitial
   cardiac fibrosis stopped. Considering that inefficient energy utilization and increased energy
   demand by the sarcomere have been suggested as a key consequence of many, if not all,
   hypertrophic cardiomyopathy associated mutations (Sweeney HL et al., 1998), they results
 5 demonstrate that the use of a gene that can restore energy failure may be useful for preventing
   or treating cardiomyopathy linked to energy failure.
            Thus, the invention relates a method for preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due to
   energy failure in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a
   therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a
 0 gene that can restore energy failure.
            More particularly, the invention relates to a method for preventing or treating a
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof, comprising
   administering to said subject of a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 5
            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION:
                                          Methods of the invention
 0         A first object of the invention relates a method for preventing or treating
   cardiomyopathy due to energy failure in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering
   to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid
   sequence of a gene that can restore energy failure.
25         As used herein the term "cardiomyopathy due to energy failure" denotes a
   deterioration of the function of the myocardium leading to heart failure, cardiac remodelling,
   long-term high blood pressure, heart valve problems, impaired calcium cycling sensitivity,
   disturbed biochemical stress sensing, altered energy homeostasis due but not limited to
   mitochondrial dysfunction and fibrosis.
30
            In a particular embodiment, the cardiomyopathy due to energy failure may be a dilated
   cardiomyopathy, a hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a restrictive cardiomyopathy or an ischemic
   cardiomyopathy.

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
            In another particular embodiment, the cardiomyopathy due to energy failure may be a
   cardiomyopathy due to a deficiency of fatty oxidation, including but not limited to primary
   carnitine deficiency, LCHAD, translocase, VLCAD.
            In another particular embodiment, the cardiomyopathy due to energy failure may be a
 5 cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia.
           As used herein, the term "a gene that can restore energy failure" denotes a nuclear or
   mitochondrial gene that can restore energy failure and/or mitochondrial dysfunction.
 0          In a particular embodiment, the gene that can restore energy failure may be a nuclear
   gene encoding a subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, a nuclear or a mitochondrial
   gene coding for a subunit of Complex I, III, IV or V involved in the oxidative
   phosphorylation; a mitochondrial gene encoding transfer RNA, a gene involved in the
   biogenesis of mitochondria such as SIRTI, a gene involved in the fusion of mitochondria
 5 such as OPAl, a gene involved in the fission of mitochondria such as FISI or a gene involved
   in the oxidation of fatty acid such as the very long-chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase.
            In a particular embodiment, the gene that can restore energy failure is the frataxin
   (FXN) gene.
 0         As used herein in its broadest meaning, the term "preventing" or "prevention" refers to
   preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a subject which has not yet been
   diagnosed as having it or which does not have any clinical symptoms.
           As used herein, the term "treating" or "treatment", as used herein, means reversing,
   alleviating, or inhibiting the progress of the disorder or condition to which such term applies,
25 or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. A "therapeutically effective amount"
   is intended for a minimal amount of active agent which is necessary to impart therapeutic
   benefit to a subject. For example, a "therapeutically effective amount" to a patient is such an
   amount which induces, ameliorates, stabilises, slows down the progression or otherwise
   causes an improvement in the pathological symptoms, disease progression or physiological
30 conditions associated with or resistance to succumbing to a disorder.
           As used herein, the term "subject" denotes a mammal, such as a rodent, a feline, a
   canine, and a primate. Preferably a subject according to the invention is a human. In the
   context of the present invention, a "subject in need thereof' denotes a subject, preferably a
   human, with a cardiomyopathy due to energy failure and more particularly a subject with a

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia. Subject with a cardiomyopathy associated
   with Friedreich ataxia presents some cardiac symptoms which may be, but are not limited to,
   a decrease of ejection fraction, increase of ventricular mass or cardiac hypertrophy. Thus, the
   method of the invention will be very useful to treat subject with such disease (Friedreich
 5 ataxia) presenting such symptoms.
            As used herein, the term "gene" refers to a polynucleotide containing at least one open
   reading frame that is capable of encoding a particular polypeptide or protein after being
   transcribed and translated.
            As used herein, the terms "coding sequence", "a sequence which encodes a particular
 0 protein" or "encoding nucleic acid", denotes a nucleic acid sequence which is transcribed (in
   the case of DNA) and translated (in the case of mRNA) into a polypeptide in vitro or in vivo
   when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the
   coding sequence are determined by a start codon at the 5' (amino) terminus and a translation
   stop codon at the 3' (carboxy) terminus. A coding sequence can include, but is not limited to,
 5 cDNA from prokaryotic or eukaryotic mRNA, genomic DNA sequences from prokaryotic or
   eukaryotic DNA, and even synthetic DNA sequences.
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for preventing or treating
   a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof, comprising
 0 administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for treating a
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof, comprising
25 administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for reversing or
   stabilizing symptoms of cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need
30 thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
   vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
            As used herein, the term "reversing symptoms of cardiomyopathy associated with
   Friedreich ataxia" denotes the restoration of cardiac function by, for example, improving
   ejection fraction and/or decreasing the ventricular mass in a subject in need thereof.

      WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
           In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for reversing the
   dysfunction of cardiac mitochondria associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need
   thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
 5 vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
           In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for improving the
   cardiac mitochondria associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof,
   comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 0
           In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for restoring cardiac
   function in a subject suffering of a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia
   comprising administering to said subject of a therapeutically effective amount of a vector
   which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 5         In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for improving cardiac
   function in a subject suffering of a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia
   comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 0         In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for treating a
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in an asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic
   subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective
   amount of a vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
           In another particular embodiment, the invention relates to a method for treating a
25 cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a symptomatic subject in need thereof,
   comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
           As used herein, the terms "asymptomatic" or "pre-symptomatic" denotes a subject
30 with the disease (Friedreich ataxia) as defined by a genetic diagnosis (see for review Lynch
   DR et al., 2002) but with no clinical cardiac symptom.
           As used herein, the terms symptomatic denotes a subject with the disease (Friedreich
   ataxia) as defined by a genetic diagnosis and with the presence of cardiac symptoms (cardiac
   hypertrophy, fibrosis, decreased myocardiac perfusion reserve index, impaired cardiac or

       WO 2014/118346                                                           PCT/EP2014/051966
   skeletal muscle mitochondrial respiratory chain function, subclinical cardiomyopathy,
   supraventricular arrhythmias, heart failure, systolic left ventricular dysfunction, fatigue...).
            The FXN gene encodes the protein frataxin. This frataxin is a protein localized to the
 5 mitochondrion. The frataxin is involved in assembly of iron-sulfur clusters by regulating iron
   entry and the activity of the cysteine desulfurase. A cDNA sequence for human FXN
   (transcript variant 1) is disclosed in Genbank Access Number NM_000144 or NG_008845
   (SEQ ID NO:1). The amino acid sequence of human frataxin is shown in SEQ ID NO:2.
 0          The sequence of the nucleic acid of the frataxin (cDNA) is (SEQ ID NO: 1):
            agtctccctt gggtcagggg tcctggttgc actccgtgct ttgcacaaag caggctctcc atttttgtta aatgcacgaa
   tagtgctaag ctgggaagtt cttcctgagg tctaacctct agctgctccc ccacagaaga gtgcctgcgg ccagtggcca
   ccaggggtcg      ccgcagcacc    cagcgctgga    gggcggagcg     ggcggcagac     ccggagcagc     atgtggactc
 5 tcgggcgccg cgcagtagcc ggcctcctgg cgtcacccag cccagcccag gcccagaccc tcacccgggt cccgcggccg
   gcagagttgg ccccactctg cggccgccgt ggcctgcgca ccgacatcga tgcgacctgc acgccccgcc gcgcaagttc
   gaaccaacgt ggcctcaacc agatttggaa tgtcaaaaag cagagtgtct atttgatgaa tttgaggaaa tctggaactt
   tgggccaccc aggctctcta gatgagacca cctatgaaag actagcagag gaaacgctgg actctttagc agagtttttt
   gaagaccttg cagacaagcc atacacgttt gaggactatg atgtctcctt tgggagtggt gtcttaactg tcaaactggg
 0 tggagatcta ggaacctatg tgatcaacaa gcagacgcca aacaagcaaa tctggctatc ttctccatcc agtggaccta
   agcgttatga ctggactggg aaaaactggg tgtactccca cgacggcgtg tccctccatg agctgctggc cgcagagctc
   actaaagcct    taaaaaccaa actggacttg tcttccttgg cctattccgg aaaagatgct tgatgcccag ccccgtttta
   aggacattaa aagctatcag gccaagaccc cagcttcatt atgcagctga ggtctgtttt ttgttgttgt tgttgtttat tttttttatt
   cctgcttttg aggacagttg ggctatgtgt      cacagctctg tagaaagaat     gtgttgcctc   ctaccttgcc  cccaagttct
25 gatttttaat ttctatggaa gattttttgg attgtcggat ttcctccctc acatgatacc ccttatcttt tataatgtct tatgcctata
   cctgaatata acaaccttta aaaaagcaaa ataataagaa ggaaaaattc caggagggaa aatgaattgt cttcactctt
   cattctttga aggatttact gcaagaagta catgaagagc        agctggtcaa cctgctcact     gttctatctc caaatgagac
   acattaaagg     gtagcctaca  aatgttttca  ggcttctttc  aaagtgtaag   cacttctgag   ctctttagca ttgaagtgtc
   gaaagcaact cacacgggaa gatcatttct tatttgtgct ctgtgactgc caaggtgtgg cctgcactgg gttgtccagg
30 gagacctagt gctgtttctc ccacatattc acatacgtgt ctgtgtgtat atatattttt tcaatttaaa ggttagtatg gaatcagctg
   ctacaagaat gcaaaaaat ttccaaagac aagaaaagag gaaaaaaagc cgttttcatg agctgagtga tgtagcgtaa
   caaacaaaat catggagctg aggaggtgcc ttgtaaacat gaaggggcag ataaaggaag gagatactca tgttgataaa
   gagagccctg gtcctagaca tagttcagcc acaaagtagt tgtccctttg tggacaagtt tcccaaattc cctggacctc
   tgcttcccca tctgttaaat gagagaatag agtatggttg attcccagca ttcagtggtc ctgtcaagca acctaacag

       WO 2014/118346                                                             PCT/EP2014/051966
   ctagttctaa ttccctattg ggtagatgag gggatgacaa          agaacagttt ttaagctata taggaaacat tgttattggt
   gttgccctat cgtgatttca gttgaattca tgtgaaaata atagccatcc ttggcctggc gcggtggctc acacctgtaa
   toccagcact tttggaggcc aaggtgggtg gatcacctga ggtcaggagt tcaagaccag cctggccaac atgatgaaa
   cccgtctcta ctaaaaatac aaaaaattag ccgggcatga tggcaggtgc ctgtaatccc agctacttgg gaggctgaag
 5 cggaagaatc gcttgaaccc agaggtggag gttgcagtga gecgagateg tgccattgca ctgtaacctg ggtgactgag
   caaaactctg tctcaaaata ataataacaa tataataata ataatagcca tcctttattg tacccttact gggttaatcg tattatacca
   cattacctca ttttaatttt tactgacctg cactttatac aaagcaacaa gectccagga cattaaaatt catgcaaagt tatgctcatg
   ttatattatt ttcttactta aagaaggatt tattagtggc tgggcatggt          ggcgtgcacc tgtaatccca    ggtactcagg
   aggctgagac gggagaattg cttgacccca ggcggaggag gttacagtga gtcgagatcg tacctgagcg acagagcgag
 0 actccgtctc aaaaaaaaaa aaaaggaggg tttattaatg agaagtttgt attaatatgt agcaaaggct tttccaatgg
   gtgaataaaa acacattcca ttaagtcaag ctgggagcag tggcatatac ctatagtccc agctgcacag gaggctgaga
   caggaggatt gcttgaagcc aggaattgga gatcagcctg ggcaacacag caagatccta tctcttaaaa aaagaaaaaa
   aaacctatta ataataaaac agtataaaca aaagctaaat aggtaaaata ttttttctga aataaaatta ttttttgagt ctgatggaaa
   tgtttaagtg cagtaggcca gtgccagtga gaaaataaat aacatcatac atgtttgtat gtgtttgcat cttgcttcta ctgaaagttt
 5 cagtgcaccc cacttactta gaactcggtg acatgatgta ctcctttatc tgggacacag cacaaaagag gtatgcagtg
   gggctgctct gacatgaaag tggaagttaa ggaatctggg ctcttatggg gtccttgtgg gccagccctt caggcctatt
   ttactttcat tttacatata     gctctaattg  gtttgattat ctcgttccca    aggcagtggg    agatecccat ttaaggaaag
   aaaaggggcc tggcacagtg gctcatgcct gtaatcccag cactttggga ggctgaggca agtgtatcac ctgaggtcag
   gagttcaaga ccagcctggc caacatggca aaatcccgtc tctactaaaa atattaaaaa attggctggg cgtggtggtt
 0 cgtgcctata atttcagcta etcaggagge tgaggcagga gaatcgctgt aacctggggg gtggaggttg cagtgagacg
   agatcatgcc acttcactcc agcctggcca acagagcca actccgtctc aaataaataa ataaataaat aaagggactt
   caaacacatg aacagcagcc aggggaagaa tcaaaatcat attctgtcaa gcaaactgga aaagtaccac tgtgtgtacc
   aatagcctcc ccaccacaga ccctgggagc ategcetcat ttatggtgtg gtccagtcat ccatgtgaag gatgagtttc
   caggaaaagg ttattaaata ttcactgtaa catactggag gaggtgagga attgcataat acaatcttag aaaacttttt
25 tttccccttt ctattttttg agacaggate tcactttggc      actcaggctg gaggacagtg gtacaatcaa agctcatggc
   agcetegace tccctgggct tgggcaatcc tcccacaggt gtgcacctcc atagctggct aatttgtgta ttttttgtag
   agatggggtt tcaccatgtt gcccaggctg gtctctaaca cttaggctca agtgatccac ctgcctcgtc ctcccaagat
   gctgggatta     caggtgtgtg    ccacaggtgt tcatcagaaa     gctttttcta ttatttttac  cttcttgagt gggtagaacc
   tcagccacat agaaaataaa atgttctggc atgacttatt tagctctctg gaattacaaa gaaggaatga ggtgtgtaaa
30 agagaacctg ggtttttgaa tcacaaattt agaatttaat cgaaactctg cctcttactt gtttgtagac actgacagtg gcctcatgtt
   tttttttttt ttaatctata aaatggagat     atctaacatg ttgagcctgg gcccacaggc aaagcacaat cctgatgtga
   gaagtactca gttcatgaca actgttgttc tcacatgcat         agcataattt catattcaca ttggaggact tctcccaaaa
   tatggatgac gttccctact caaccttgaa cttaatcaaa atactcagtt tacttaactt cgtattagat tctgattccc tggaaccatt
   tatcgtgtgc cttaccatgc ttatatttta cttgatcttt tgcatacctt ctaaaactat tttagccaat ttaaaatttg acagtttgca

       WO 2014/118346                                                              PCT/EP2014/051966
   ttaaattata   ggtttacaat  atgctttatc    cagetatacc     tgccccaaat   tctgacagat  gcttttgcca  cctctaaagg
   aagacccatg ttcatagtga tggagtttgt gtggactaac catgcaaggt tgccaaggaa aaatcgcttt acgcttccaa
   ggtacacact    aagatgaaag taattttagt      ccgtgtccag ttggattctt      ggcacatagt tatcttctgc tagaacaaac
   taaaacagct acatgccagc aagggagaaa ggggaaggag gggcaaagtt ttgaaatttc atgtaaattt atgctgttca
 5 aaacgacgag ttcatgactt tgtgtataga gtaagaaatg ccttttcttt tttgagacag agtcttgctc tgtcacccag
   gctggagtgc agtggcacga tctgggctca ctacaacctc cgcctcctgg gttcaagcaa ttctctgcct cagcetcceg
   agtagctggg attacaggtg cctgccacca cacceggeta atttttgtat ttttagtaga gacggggttt caccatcatg
   gccaggctgg tcttgaactc ctgacctagt aatccacctg cctccgcctc ccaaagtgct gggattacag gcgtgagcca
   ctgcacccag    ccagaaatgc     cttctaatct ttggtttatc ttaattagcc     aggacacttg gagtgcatcc cgaagtacct
 0 gatcagtggc ccctttggaa tgtgtaaaac teageteact tatatccctg catecgetac agagacagaa tccaagctca
   tatgttccat cttctctggc tgtatagttt aaggaatgga aggcaccaga acagatttat tgaaatgttt attagctgaa gatttattta
   gacagttgag gaaaacatca gcacccagca gtaaaattgg ctctcaaaga ttttcttctc ctgtggaaag tcagacctct
   gaggecccat ccaggtagaa gtactagtgc aagaagggcc tctgctgtcc acttgtgttt ctgtgatctg tgggaacatt
   gttaacgcca catcttgacc tcaaattgtt tagctcctgg ccagacacgg tggctcacac ctgtaatccc agcactttga
 5 gaggctgagg caggtggatc acctgaggtt aggagttcga ggccagcctg gtcaacatgg taaaaccccg cctctactaa
   aaatacaaaa attagctggc cgtagtggcg cacgcctgtt atcccagcta ctcgggaggc tgaggcagga gaattgcttg
   aacctgggtg gtggaggttg cagtgagccg agattacacc actgcactcc agcctgggtg acaagaggga aactccatta
   aaaaaatgta    attcccgtgt   ctgccatctt   aagtgtaaag      gtggctaaat tatatagaaa aataagacaa    tatcatttcc
   caattacatt   cctttcctac  cgcactctat     gatgctagct     gagatttttc  caaaagaaaa   tggcttaaat  aaaacccta
 0 gagaaagaaa aactttaaat ccctccaaag ctcaaaagta atagaaacag atgagtttgg agtcaggatt tctctgtaag
   attgcctagg ctgtgtactg cacatctcca ggtgccactg ttgacagaga ttataactac aatgtgaagt gaatggtgcc
   actgacagtt atgcaaaccg tccagagcat agccacctga tcctgctggg attcctcttg ccagtccatc agcagttccc
   cttgaaagtt tcaccaaaca      tcccttaaat   ctgccctctc ctgcccgtcc ccagtggagg tcctcatcat ttttcacctg
   catttttgca ggagctttct tatatccacc ttcctccttt tctctcagcc catcatctag ctacacagtc tccagggtaa gctttcagaa
25 aggcaatctc ttgtctgtaa aacctaagca ggaccaaggc caagtttctt agcctgaaaa atgtgctttt ctgactgaac
   tgttcaggca    ctgactctac   atataattat   gcttttctac   cccctcacac    tcaacacttt gactccagca   atcccaaatc
   cccagatccc taagtgtgct gtgctatttt cacgtggctc tcagacttgg ccagtgctgt ttccattttg gtctttattc cccacatctc
   tgcctggggg gtagattcta ccctgaaaaa tgttcttggc acagccttgc aaactcctcc tccactcagc ctctgcctgg
   atgcccttga ttgttccatg tcctcagcat accatgtttg tctttcccag cactgaccta ccatgtgtca cccctgcttg gctgtacctt
30 ccatgaggct aggactatgt gtctcctttg ttgactgctg ttgccctagc atcttgcaca gttccttgca cacaattaga
   gctctataaa tgtcaaataa atgtgttata attatatgtt taagatagtt gttcaaataa actctaaata accccaac.
            The      sequence      of     the      frataxin     protein     is   (SEQ      ID     NO:2):
   MWTLGRRAVAGLLASPSPAQAQTLTRVPRPAELAPLCGRRGLRTDIDATCTPRRASS

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   NQRGLNQIWNVKKQSVYLMNLRKSGTLGHPGSLDETTYERLAEETLDSLAEFFEDLA
   DKPYTFEDYDVSFGSGVLTVKLGGDLGTYVINKQTPNKQIWLSSPSSGPKRYDWTGK
   NWVYSHDGVSLHELLAAELTKALKTKLDLSSLAYSGKDA.
 5         In a particular embodiment, the invention provides a nucleic acid construct comprising
   sequence SEQ ID NO: 1 or a variant thereof for treating cardiomyopathy associated with
   Friedreich ataxia.
           The variants include, for instance, naturally-occurring variants due to allelic variations
   between individuals (e.g., polymorphisms), alternative splicing forms, in particular transcript
 0 variants 2 and 3 (accession numbers NM_001161706 and NM_181425), etc. The term variant
   also includes FXN gene sequences from other sources or organisms. Variants are preferably
   substantially homologous to SEQ ID NO:1, i.e., exhibit a nucleotide sequence identity of
   typically at least about 75%, preferably at least about 85%, more preferably at least about
   90%, more preferably at least about 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% with SEQ ID NO: 1.
 5 Variants of a FXN gene also include nucleic acid sequences, which hybridize to a sequence as
   defined above (or a complementary strand thereof) under stringent hybridization conditions.
   Typical stringent hybridisation conditions include temperatures above 30' C, preferably
   above 35'C, more preferably in excess of 42'C, and/or salinity of less than about 500 mM,
   preferably less than 200 mM. Hybridization conditions may be adjusted by the skilled person
 0 by modifying the temperature, salinity and/or the concentration of other reagents such as
   SDS, SSC, etc.
           In a particular embodiment, the FXN-encoding nucleic acid is a fragment of the SEQ
   ID NO:1 which encodes for the amino acid sequence 81-210 of the SEQ ID NO:2 (named
   variant "81-210") or a variant thereof, "variant" having the meaning provided above with
25 respect to nucleotide sequence identity and hybridization.
           In a another particular embodiment, a sequence known as mitochondrion-targeting
   signal or mitochondrial targeting signal may be added to the FXN-encoding sequence or
   variant thereof, including, for example the FXN-encoding sequence "81-210". Sequences
   known as mitochondrion-targeting signal or mitochondrial targeting signal are referred to as
30 MTS by the skilled person.
           A MTS sequence can be identified within a protein or nucleic acid sequence by a
   person of ordinary skill in the art.
           Most mitochondrion-targeting peptides consist of a N-terminal pre-sequence of about
   15 to 100 residues, preferably of about 20 to 80 residues. They are enriched in arginine,

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
   leucine, serine and alanine. Mitochondrial pre-sequences show a statistical bias of positively
   charged amino acid residues, provided mostly through arginine residues; very few sequences
   contain negatively charged amino acids. Mitochondrion-targeting peptides also share an
   ability to form an amphiphilic alpha-helix.
 5
            A complete description of a method to identify a MTS is available in: M.G. Claros, P.
   Vincens, 1996 (Eur. J. Biochem. 241, 779-786 (1996), "Computational method to predict
   mitochondrially imported proteins and their targeting sequences"), the content of which is
   herein incorporated by reference.
 0
            In another embodiment, the invention relates to a method for use in the prevention or
   treatment of diseases associated with frataxin deficiency in a subject in need therefore,
   comprising to said subject administering a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a nucleic acid encoding frataxin.
 5
            In another embodiment, the invention relates a method for use in the prevention or
   treatment of cardiomyopathy due but not limited to energy failure in a subject in need thereof,
   comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which
   comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a gene that can restore energy failure.
 0          In another particular embodiment, the invention relates a method for use in the
   prevention or treatment of cardiomyopathy due but not limited to energy failure in a subject in
   need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
   vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
25          The invention also relates to a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a
   gene that can restore energy failure for use in treatment or prevention of cardiomyopathy due
   to energy failure in a subject in need thereof
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for use in the treatment or prevention of a
30 cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for use in the treatment of a cardiomyopathy associated
   with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin    (FXN)    encoding nucleic     acid  for reversing   or stabilizing  symptoms of
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof
 5          In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for reversing the dysfunction of cardiac mitochondria
   associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for improving the cardiac mitochondria associated with
 0 Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need thereof
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for restoring cardiac function in a subject suffering of a
   cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia.
 5          In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for improving cardiac function in a subject suffering of
   a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia.
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
 0 frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for use in the treatment a cardiomyopathy associated
   with Friedreich ataxia in an asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic subject in need thereof
            In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a
   frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for use in the treatment a cardiomyopathy associated
   with Friedreich ataxia in a symptomatic subject in need thereof
25
                                               Non viral vectors
            In a particular embodiment, the vector use according to the invention is a non viral
30 vector. Typically, the non viral vector may be a plasmid which includes nucleic acid
   sequences encoding FXN gene, or variants thereof, as described above.
                                               The viral vectors

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
           Gene delivery viral vectors useful in the practice of the present invention can be
   constructed utilizing methodologies well known in the art of molecular biology. Typically,
   viral vectors carrying transgenes are assembled from polynucleotides encoding the transgene,
   suitable regulatory elements and elements necessary for production of viral proteins which
 5 mediate cell transduction.
           The terms "Gene transfer" or "gene delivery" refer to methods or systems for reliably
   inserting foreign DNA into host cells. Such methods can result in transient expression of non
   integrated transferred DNA, extrachromosomal replication and expression of transferred
   replicons (e.g. episomes), or integration of transferred genetic material into the genomic DNA
 0 of host cells.
           Examples of viral vector include but are not limited to adenoviral, retroviral, lentiviral,
   herpesvirus and adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors.
           Such recombinant viruses may be produced by techniques known in the art, such as by
   transfecting packaging cells or by transient transfection with helper plasmids or viruses.
 5 Typical examples of virus packaging cells include PA317 cells, PsiCRIP cells, GPenv+ cells,
   293 cells, etc. Detailed protocols for producing such replication-defective recombinant viruses
   may be found for instance in W095/14785, W096/22378, US5,882,877, US6,013,516,
   US4,861,719, US5,278,056 and W094/19478.
           In one embodiment, adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors are employed.
 0         In other embodiments, the AAV vector is AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AA5,
   AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh1O or any other serotypes of AAV that can infect
   humans, monkeys or other species.
           In an exemplary embodiment, the AAV vector is an AAVrh10.
           By an "AAV vector" is meant a vector derived from an adeno-associated virus
25 serotype, including without limitation, AAV-1, AAV-2, AAV-3, AAV-4, AAV-5, AAV6, etc.
   AAV vectors can have one or more of the AAV wild-type genes deleted in whole or part,
   preferably the rep and/or cap genes, but retain functional flanking ITR sequences. Functional
   ITR sequences are necessary for the rescue, replication and packaging of the AAV virion.
   Thus, an AAV vector is defined herein to include at least those sequences required in cis for
30 replication and packaging (e. g., functional ITRs) of the virus. The ITRs need not be the wild
   type nucleotide sequences, and may be altered, e. g by the insertion, deletion or substitution of
   nucleotides, so long as the sequences provide for functional rescue, replication and packaging.
   AAV expression vectors are constructed using known techniques to at least provide as
   operatively linked components in the direction of transcription, control elements including a

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
   transcriptional initiation region, the DNA of interest (i.e. the FXN gene) and a transcriptional
   termination region.
           The control elements are selected to be functional in a mammalian cell. The resulting
   construct which contains the operatively linked components is bounded (5' and 3') with
 5 functional AAV ITR sequences. By "adeno-associated virus inverted terminal repeats " or
   "AAVITRs" is meant the art-recognized regions found at each end of the AAV genome which
   function together in cis as origins of DNA replication and as packaging signals for the virus.
   AAV ITRs, together with the AAV rep coding region, provide for the efficient excision and
   rescue from, and integration of a nucleotide sequence interposed between two flanking ITRs
 0 into a mammalian cell genome. The nucleotide sequences of AAV ITR regions are known.
   See, e.g., Kotin, 1994; Berns, KI "Parvoviridae and their Replication" in Fundamental
   Virology, 2nd Edition, (B. N. Fields and D. M. Knipe, eds. ) for the AAV-2 sequence. As
   used herein, an "AAV ITR" does not necessarily comprise the wild-type nucleotide sequence,
   but may be altered, e.g., by the insertion, deletion or substitution of nucleotides. Additionally,
 5 the AAV ITR may be derived from any of several AAV serotypes, including without
   limitation, AAV-1, AAV-2, AAV-3, AAV-4, AAV-5, AAV-6, etc. Furthermore, 5' and 3'
   ITRs which flank a selected nucleotide sequence in an AAV vector need not necessarily be
   identical or derived from the same AAV serotype or isolate, so long as they function as
   intended, i.e., to allow for excision and rescue of the sequence of interest from a host cell
 0 genome or vector, and to allow integration of the heterologous sequence into the recipient cell
   genome when AAV Rep gene products are present in the cell. Additionally, AAV ITRs may
   be derived from any of several AAV serotypes, including without limitation, AAV-1, AAV-2,
   AAV-3, AAV-4, AAV 5, AAV-6, etc. Furthermore, 5 'and 3' ITRs which flank a selected
   nucleotide sequence in an AAV expression vector need not necessarily be identical or derived
25 from the same AAV serotype or isolate, so long as they function as intended, i. e., to allow for
   excision and rescue of the sequence of interest from a host cell genome or vector, and to allow
   integration of the DNA molecule into the recipient cell genome when AAV Rep gene
   products are present in the cell.
           Particularly preferred are vectors derived from AAV serotypes having tropism for and
30 high transduction efficiencies       in cells of the mammalian myocardium, particularly
   cardiomyocytes and cardiomyocyte progenitors. A review and comparison of transduction
   efficiencies of different serotypes is provided in Cearley CN et al., 2008. In other non-limiting
   examples, preferred vectors include vectors derived from any serotypes like AAV1, AAV2,

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   AAV3, AAV4, AA5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, or AAVrh10, which have also been
   shown to transduce cells of cardiomyocytes.
           The selected nucleotide sequence is operably linked to control elements that direct the
   transcription or expression thereof in the subject in vivo. Such control elements can comprise
 5 control sequences normally associated with the selected gene.
           Alternatively, heterologous control sequences can be employed. Useful heterologous
   control sequences generally include those derived from sequences encoding mammalian or
   viral genes. Examples include, but are not limited to, the phophoglycerate kinase (PKG)
   promoter, CAG, MCK (muscle creatine kinase), the SV40 early promoter, mouse mammary
 0 tumor virus LTR promoter; adenovirus major late promoter (Ad MLP); a herpes simplex virus
   (HSV) promoter, a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter such as the CMV immediate early
   promoter region (CMVIE), rous sarcoma virus (RSV) promoter, synthetic promoters, hybrid
   promoters, and the like. The promoters can be of human origin or from other species,
   including from mice. In addition, sequences derived from nonviral genes, such as the murine
 5 metallothionein gene, will also find use herein. Such promoter sequences are commercially
   available from, e. g. Stratagene (San Diego, CA).
           Examples of heterologous promoters include the CMV promoter.
           Examples of inducible promoters include DNA responsive elements for ecdysone,
 0 tetracycline, hypoxia andaufin.
           The AAV expression vector which harbors the DNA molecule of interest bounded by
   AAV ITRs, can be constructed by directly inserting the selected sequence (s) into an AAV
   genome which has had the major AAV open reading frames ("ORFs") excised therefrom.
   Other portions of the AAV genome can also be deleted, so long as a sufficient portion of the
25 ITRs remain to allow for replication and packaging functions. Such constructs can be
   designed using techniques well known in the art. See, e. g. U. S. Patents Nos. 5,173, 414 and
   5,139, 941; International Publications Nos. WO 92/01070 (published 23 January 1992) and
   WO 93/03769 (published 4 March 1993); Lebkowski et al., 1988 ; Vincent et al., 1990;
   Carter, 1992 ; Muzyczka, 1992 ; Kotin,1994; Shelling and Smith, 1994 ; and Zhou et al.,
30 1994. Alternatively, AAV ITRs can be excised from the viral genome or from an AAV vector
   containing the same and fused 5' and 3' of a selected nucleic acid construct that is present in
   another vector using standard ligation techniques. AAV vectors which contain ITRs have
   been described in, e. g. U. S. Patent no. 5,139, 941. In particular, several AAV vectors are
   described therein which are available from the American Type Culture Collection ("ATCC")

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   under Accession Numbers 53222,53223, 53224,53225 and 53226. Additionally, chimeric
   genes can be produced synthetically to include AAV ITR sequences arranged 5' and 3' of one
   or more selected nucleic acid sequences. Preferred codons for expression of the chimeric gene
   sequence in mammalian CNS cells can be used. The complete chimeric sequence is
 5 assembled from overlapping oligonucleotides prepared by standard methods. See, e. g., Edge,
   1981 ; Nambair et al., 1984 ; Jay et al., 1984. In order to produce AAV virions, an AAV
   expression vector is introduced into a suitable host cell using known techniques, such as by
   transfection. A number of transfection techniques are generally known in the art. See, e. g. ,
   Graham et al., 1973;, Sambrook et al. (1989) Molecular Cloning, a laboratory manual, Cold
 0 Spring Harbor Laboratories, New York, Davis etal. (1986) Basic Methods in Molecular
   Biology, Elsevier, and Chu et al., 1981. Particularly suitable transfection methods include
   calcium phosphate co-precipitation (Graham et al., 1973), direct microinjection into cultured
   cells (Capecchi, 1980), electroporation (Shigekawa et al., 1988), liposome mediated gene
   transfer (Mannino et al., 1988), lipid-mediated transduction (Felgner et al., 1987), and nucleic
 5 acid delivery using high-velocity microprojectiles (Klein et al., 1987).
           For instance, a preferred viral vector, such as the AAVrh10, comprises, in addition to a
   FXN encoding nucleic acid sequence, the backbone of AAV vector with ITR derived from
   AAV-2, the promoter, such as the mouse PGK (phosphoglycerate kinase) gene or the
   cytomegalovirus/0-actin hybrid promoter (CAG) consisting of the enhancer from the
 0 cytomegalovirus immediate gene, the promoter, splice donor and intron from the chicken 0
   actin gene, the splice acceptor from rabbit P-globin, or any promoter such as PGK, CAG,
   MCK.
                                            Delivery of the vectors
25
           It is herein provided a method for treating cardiomyopathy due to energy failure in a
   subject, said method comprising:
           (a) providing a vector as defined above, which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a
   gene that can restore energy failure; and
30         (b) delivering the vector to the subject in need thereof and whereby the gene is
   expressed by the transduced cells at a therapeutically effective level.
           In a particular embodiment, it is herein provided a method for treating cardiomyopathy
   associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject, said method comprising:

       WO 2014/118346                                                            PCT/EP2014/051966
           (a) providing a vector as defined above, which comprises a FXN encoding nucleic
   acid; and
           (b) delivering the vector to the subject in need thereof and whereby FXN is expressed
   by the transduced cells at a therapeutically effective level.
 5
           In a particular method, the vector is delivered directly into the myocardium by
   epicardiac    injection   followed   by   minithoracotomy,     by    intracoronary  injection,  by
   endomyocardic injection, by subepicardial or epicardial injection or other type of injection
   useful in the heart.
 0
           Additional routes of administration may also comprise local application of the vector
   under direct visualization, e.g., superficial cortical application, or other nonstereotactic
   application. The vector may be delivered intrathecally, in the ventricles or by intravenous
   injection.
 5         The target cells of the vectors of the present invention are cells of the myocardium of a
   subject afflicted with a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia. Preferably the
   subject is a human being, adult or child.
           However the invention encompasses delivering the vector to biological models of the
   disease. In that case, the biological model may be any mammal at any stage of development at
 0 the time of delivery, e.g., embryonic, fetal, infantile, juvenile or adult. Furthermore, the target
   myocardium cells may be essentially from any source, especially any cells derived from hiPS
   from FRDA patients, nonhuman primates and mammals of the orders Rodenta (mice, rats,
   rabbit, hamsters), Carnivora (cats, dogs), and Arteriodactyla (cows, pigs, sheep, goats, horses)
   as well as any other non-human system (e. g. zebrafish model system).
25         The vectors used herein may be formulated in any suitable vehicle for delivery. For
   instance they may be placed into a pharmaceutically acceptable suspension, solution or
   emulsion. Suitable mediums include saline and liposomal preparations. More specifically,
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may include sterile aqueous of non-aqueous solutions,
   suspensions, and emulsions. Examples of non-aqueous solvents are propylene glycol,
30 polyethylene glycol, vegetable oils such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters such as
   ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water, alcoholic/aqueous solutions, emulsions or
   suspensions, including saline and buffered media. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and
   nutrient replenishers, electrolyte replenishers (such as those based on Ringer's dextrose), and
   the like.

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
           Preservatives and other additives may also be present such as, for example,
   antimicrobials, antioxidants, chelating agents, and inert gases and the like.
           A colloidal dispersion system may also be used for targeted gene delivery. Colloidal
   dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes, nanocapsules, microspheres, beads,
 5 and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions, micelles, mixed micelles, and
   liposomes.
           The preferred doses and regimen may be determined by a physician, and depend on
   the age, sex, weight, of the subject, and the stage of the disease. As an example, for delivery
   of a nucleic acid sequence encoding an FXN polypeptide using a viral expression vector, each
 0 unit dosage of FXN polypeptide expressing vector may comprise 2.5 to 100 gl of a
   composition including a viral expression vector in a pharmaceutically acceptable fluid at a
   concentration ranging from 1011 to 1016 viral genome per ml for example.
           The invention also relates to a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a
 5 gene that can restore energy failure for use in treatment or prevention cardiomyopathy due to
   energy failure in a subject wherein the vector is delivering the subject in need thereof and
   wherein the gene is expressed by the transduced cells at a therapeutically effective level.
           In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a FXN
   encoding nucleic acid for use in treatment or prevention of cardiomyopathy associated with
 0 Friedreich ataxia in a subject wherein the vector is delivering the subject in need thereof and
   wherein FXN is expressed by the transduced cells at a therapeutically effective level.
           In a particular embodiment, the invention relates to a vector which comprises a FXN
   encoding nucleic acid for reversing symptoms of cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich
   ataxia in a subject in need thereof wherein the vector is delivering the subject in need thereof
25 and wherein FXN is expressed by the transduced cells at a therapeutically effective level.
                                        Pharmaceutical composition
30         A second object of the invention concerns a pharmaceutical composition for
   preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due to energy failure in a subject in need thereof,
   which comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic
   acid sequence of a gene that can restore energy failure.

       WO 2014/118346                                                           PCT/EP2014/051966
            In a particular embodiment, the invention concerns a pharmaceutical composition for
   preventing or treating cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need
   thereof, which comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a
   FXN encoding nucleic acid.
 5
            By a "therapeutically effective amount" is meant a sufficient amount of the vector of
   the invention to treat a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia at a reasonable
   benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical treatment.
 0          It will be understood that the single dosage or the total daily dosage of the compounds
   and compositions of the present invention will be decided by the attending physician within
   the scope of sound medical judgment. The specific therapeutically effective dose level for any
   particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated
   and the severity of the disorder; activity of the specific compound employed; the specific
 5 composition employed, the age, body weight, general health, sex and diet of the patient; the
   time of administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the specific compound
   employed; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental with the
   specific polypeptide employed; and like factors well known in the medical arts. For example,
   it is well within the skill of the art to start doses of the compound at levels lower than those
 0 required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and to gradually increase the dosage until
   the desired effect is achieved. However, the daily dosage of the products may be varied over a
   wide range per adult per day. The therapeutically effective amount of the vector according to
   the invention that should be administered, as well as the dosage for the treatment of a
   pathological condition with the number of viral or non-viral particles and/or pharmaceutical
25 compositions of the invention, will depend on numerous factors, including the age and
   condition of the patient, the severity of the disturbance or disorder, the method and frequency
   of administration and the particular peptide to be used.
            The presentation of the pharmaceutical compositions that contain the vector according
   to the invention may be in any form that is suitable for the selected mode of administration,
30 for    example,     for  intraventricular,   intramyocardium,     intracoronary  or intravenous
   administration.
            In the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention for intramuscular,
   intravenous, intramyocardium, intracoronary or intraventricular administration, the active
   principle, alone or in combination with another active principle, can be administered in a unit

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
   administration form, as a mixture with conventional pharmaceutical supports, to animals and
   human beings.
           Preferably,    the   pharmaceutical    compositions     contain    vehicles   which    are
   pharmaceutically acceptable for a formulation capable of being injected. These may be in
 5 particular isotonic, sterile, saline solutions (monosodium or disodium phosphate, sodium,
   potassium, calcium or magnesium chloride and the like or mixtures of such salts), or dry,
   especially freeze-dried compositions which upon addition, depending on the case, of sterilized
   water or physiological saline, permit the constitution of injectable solutions.
           The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions
 0 or dispersions; formulations including sesame oil, peanut oil or aqueous propylene glycol; and
   sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or
   dispersions. In all cases, the form must be sterile and must be fluid. It must be stable under the
   conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action
   of microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi.
 5         Solutions comprising compounds of the invention as free base or pharmacologically
   acceptable salts can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant, such as
   hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene
   glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these
   preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.
 0         The vector according to the invention can be formulated into a composition in a
   neutral or salt form. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts (formed
   with the free amino groups of the protein) and which are formed with inorganic acids such as,
   for example, hydrochloric or phosphoric acids, or such organic acids as acetic, oxalic, tartaric,
   mandelic, and the like. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from
25 inorganic bases such as, for example, sodium, potassium, ammonium, calcium, or ferric
   hydroxides, and such organic bases as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, histidine, procaine
   and the like.
           The carrier can also be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water,
   ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and
30 the like), suitable mixtures thereof, and vegetables oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained,
   for example, by the use of a coating, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required
   particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the
   action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents,
   for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many

       WO 2014/118346                                                           PCT/EP2014/051966
   cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride.
   Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the
   compositions of agents delaying absorption, for example, aluminium monostearate and
   gelatin.
 5          Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active polypeptides in the
   required amount in the appropriate solvent with several of the other ingredients enumerated
   above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by
   incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the
   basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In
 0 the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred
   methods of preparation are vacuum-drying and freeze-drying techniques which yield a
   powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously
   sterile-filtered solution thereof
            Upon formulation, solutions will be administered in a manner compatible with the
 5 dosage formulation and in such amount as is therapeutically effective. The formulations are
   easily administered in a variety of dosage forms, such as the type of injectable solutions
   described above, but drug release capsules and the like can also be employed.
            Multiple doses can also be administered.
 0          In another embodiment, the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition for
   treating or preventing diseases associated with frataxin deficiency in a subject in need
   therefore, comprising to said subject administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
   vector which comprises a nucleic acid encoding frataxin.
25
            The invention will be further illustrated by the following figures and examples.
   However, these examples and figures should not be interpreted in any way as limiting the
   scope of the present invention.
30          FIGURES:
            Figure 1. Administration of AAVrh1O.CAG-hXN vector at 3 weeks of age prevents
   the onset of cardiac failure and rescues survival in pre-symptomatic MCK mice at a dose of
   5x10 1 3 vg/kg. (A) Survival rates of wild-type (black solid line), treated (grey dotted line) and

       WO 2014/118346                                                            PCT/EP2014/051966
   untreated (black dotted line) MCK mice. n=9-10 for each group. (B) Relative quantification
   of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and sarcoplasmic
   reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (Serca2a) mRNA expressions in heart at 8 and 35 weeks for wild
   type (white), treated (grey) and untreated (black) MCK mice; n=3-5 per group (*P<0.05;
 5 ***P<0.001). mRNA expression was normalized to 18S ribosomal RNA and is presented as a
   fold change relative to wild-type values. Data are represented as means  SD.
           Figure 2. Administration of AAVrh1O.CAG-hXN vector, at a dose of 5x10 1 3 vg/kg, at
   7 weeks of age in symptomatic MCK mice with severe cardiac failure reverses the cardiac
 0 contractile   dysfunction, Fe-S cluster proteins, and cardiomyocyte and mitochondrial
   ultrastructure disorganization. (A) Longitudinal echocardiographic assessment of the left
   ventricle mass (LVM, left) and the shortening fraction           (SF, right) for wild-type (black
   circles) mice, treated (light grey squares) and untreated (grey triangle) MCK mice. Data are
   represented as means  SD. n=9-1 1 for each group. (B) Survival rates of wild-type mice
 5 (black solid line), treated (grey dotted line) and untreated (black dotted line) MCK mice. n=9
   11 for each group. (C) Relative quantification of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), brain
   natriuretic peptide (BNP) and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca               ATPase (Serca2a) mRNA
   expressions in heart at 8, 15 and 22 weeks for wild-type (white), treated (grey) and untreated
   (black) MCK mice; n=3-5 per group and per age (*P<0.05; **P<0.01; ns: statistically non
 0 significant). mRNA expression was normalized to 18S ribosomal RNA and is presented as a
   fold change relative to wild-type values. Data are represented as means  SD. (D)
   Biochemical measurements of combined cytosolic and mitochondrial aconitases (Aco) and
   succinate dehydrogenase (SDH, complex II) activities in heart from wild-type (white) mice,
   treated (grey) and untreated (black) MCK mice at 8, 15 and 22 weeks of age; n=3-6 per group
25 and per age (**P<0.0 1). Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) activity was used to normalize SDH
   and aconitase activites for total mitochondrial content.
           Figure 3. Treatment of MCK mice at 5 weeks with 10 fold decreased dose of vector
   delays the onset of cardiac failure. (a-d) Echocardiographic assessment of the left ventricle
30 shortening fraction (a), ejection fraction (b), cardiac output (c) and left ventricle mass reported
   to body weight (d) for MCK mice treated with a dose of 5x10 13 vg/kg (D, n=3) or 5x10 12
   vg/kg (0, n=3), as well as for control wild-type (*, n=4) and untreated MCK (0, n=10) mice.
   (e-g) Kinetic of individual echocardiographic         assessment of left ventricular shortening
   fraction for MCK mice treated with 5x101 vg/kg (e) or 5x10 12 vg/kg (f and g).

      WO 2014/118346                                                     PCT/EP2014/051966
          Table 1: Echocardiographic parameters, percentage of SDH positive cardiomyocytes
  and vector genome copy per individual mice. Abbreviations: vg/kg, vector genome per
  kilogram; LV, left ventricle; SDH, Succinate dehydrogenase; N.D., not determined. Values
5 are presented as mean of experimental replicate of individual measure.

    WO 2014/118346          PCT/EP2014/051966
oCA
           4           c
 42
      A            ~e o   6
 -.  *;
                         ~4

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
            EXAMPLES:
 5          Example 1:
            Material & Methods
            Adeno-associated viral vector construction and production
 0          Human frataxin (hFXN) cDNA, including the mitochondrial targeting sequence, fused
   to a HA tag was subcloned in a pAAV2-CAG plasmid (Sondhi, Hackett et al. 2007) to
   produce pAAV2-CAG-hFXN            that included the viral inverted terminal repeat (ITR) from
   AAV2; the cytomegalovirus/0-actin hybrid promoter, consisting of the enhancer from the
   cytomegalo- virus immediate-early gene, the promoter, splice donor, and intron from the
 5 chicken P-actin gene, and the splice acceptor from rabbit P-globin. The AAVrh1O.CAG
   hFXN-HA vector was produced as described earlier (Rabinowitz, Rolling et al. 2002) in the
   Vector Core at the University Hospital of Nantes (http://www.vectors.nantes.inserm.fr). The
   final titers of the two batches used were 5.4 x10 12 vg/ml and 2.15 x10 13 vg/ml, respectively.
 0          Animal procedures
            Mice with a specific deletion of Fxn gene in cardiac and skeletal muscle (MCK-Cre
   FxnL3/L-) (MCK mice) in 100% C57BL/6J background were generated and genotyped as
   previously described (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001). Mice were maintained in a temperature and
   humidity controlled animal facility, with a 12 hours light/dark cycle and free access to water
25 and a standard rodent chow (D03, SAFE, Villemoisson-sur-Orge, France). All animal
   procedures and experiments were approved by the local ethical committee for Animal Care
   and Use (Com'Eth 2011-07), and were performed in accordance with the Guide for the Care
   and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Institutes of Health). For biodistribution studies,
   three weeks old wild-type          mice were    anesthetized  by intraperitoneal     injection of
30 ketamine/xylazine      (75/10 mg/kg) to allow intravenous administration by retro-orbital
   injection of AAVrh1O.CAG-FXN at a dose of 5x10 13 vg/kg, and sacrificed at 7 weeks of age
   (4 weeks post-injection). For gene therapy studies, three or seven weeks old MCK mice were
   anesthetized by intraperitoneal injection of ketamine/xylazine (75/10 mg/kg or 60/8 mg/kg,

        WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
   respectively) to allow intravenous administration by retro-orbital injection of AAVrh1O.CAG
   FXN at a dose of 5x10"3vg/kg. Untreated MCK and WT mice littermates were injected with
   equivalent volume of saline solution. Survival was evaluated daily and mice weight weekly.
   The mice cardiac        function was evaluated under        isofluorane anesthesia   (1-2%)   by
 5 echocardiography by an experimenter blinded to mice genotype and treatment regimen, as
   previously described (Seznec, Simon et al. 2004). Animals were killed by C02 inhalation at
   8, 15, 22 or 35 weeks, and tissues samples for biochemical and molecular analysis were
   immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. For histological analysis, mice were anesthetized by
   intraperitoneal injection of ketamine/xylazine and perfused with cooled saline solution. For
 0 histological analysis of dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord and cardiac tissue was embedded in
   OCT Tissue Tek (Sakura Finetechnical, Torrance, California) and snap-frozen in isopentane
   chilled in liquid nitrogen. Samples of skeletal muscles were directly snap-frozen in isopentane
   chilled in liquid nitrogen. For electron microscopy analysis, small samples from the middle of
   left ventricle and its apex were collected, then fixed and embedded in Epon as previously
 5 described (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001).
             Histopathology, enzyme histochemistry and electron microscopy
             For histochemical analysis, 10pm cryosections were stained either with hematoxylin
   and eosin (H&E), Sirius red and Fast green to label extracellular collagen, or DAB enhanced
 0 Perls to label iron (Fe3 ) deposits (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001).
             Sirius red   and  fast green    staining:  Tissue sections were      fixed with   10%
   paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (PBS), pH 7.4 for 10min and then incubated
   with a saturated solution of picric acid containing 0.1% Direct red 80 (Sigma) for 2 min,
   washed with 0.5% glacial acetic acid solution followed by deionized water, and subsequently
25 incubated in 0.05% Fast Green solution for 5min, and then washed with 0.5% glacial acetic
   acid solution. Finally, sections were dehydrated in graded alcohols, cleared in Histosol Plus
   (Shandom) for 5 min and mounted using Pertex mounting medium (Histolab Products AB).
             DAB-enhanced     Perls   iron  staining:  Tissue   sections were    fixed  with   10%
   paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (PBS), pH 7.4 for 20min and incubated in Perls
30 solution (1%HCl,1% Potassium Ferrocyanide) for 30min. Staining was enhanced by
   incubation in 0.025% 3'-3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.005%
   H 2 0 2 in PBS buffer for 30 min, and then developed in the same buffer. Finally, sections were
   dehydrated in graded alcohols, cleared in Histosol Plus (Shandom) for 5 min and mounted
   using Pertex mounting medium (Histolab Products AB).

       WO 2014/118346                                                       PCT/EP2014/051966
           Enzyme histochemical analyses: Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and Cytochrome C
   Oxydase (COX) activities were performed on 10gm cryostat sections of tissues, as previously
   described (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001).
           Electron microscopy analysis: Ultrathin sections (70 nm) of cardiac tissue were
 5 contrasted with uranyl acetate and lead citrate and examined with a Morgagni 268D electron
   microscope, as described previously (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001).
           Immuno fluorescence and image acquisition
           Cardiac and spinal cord tissue cryosections were fixed in 4% PFA for 10W min,
 0 washed and then permeabilized in methanol at -20'C for 20min. Sections were blocked and
   permeabilized at the same time with PBS, 1% NGS, 5% BSA, 0.3% Triton X-100 for 1h at
   room temperature (RT) and then washed in PBS, 0.2% Tween 1% BSA 1% NGS (PBS-TBN).
   Subsequently, tissues were incubated overnight (O/N) at 4'C with the rabbit polyclonal
   antibody against frataxin (FXN935)(1/250) diluted in PBS-TBN (Puccio, Simon et al. 2001).
 5 The Alexa fluor-594 goat anti-rabbit antibody (1/500) (Molecular Probes) was incubated for
   2h at RT. Sections were stained with Hoechst and mounted using Aqua-Polymount mounting
   medium (Polysciences, Inc.). For co-immunolabelling of HA-tag and prohibitin, the tissue
   section were washed in PBS, 0.05% Tween and then blocked O/N at 4'C in M.O.M.TM Mouse
   Ig Blocking Reagent (Vector Laboratories). Section were then incubated O/N at 4'C with the
 0 mouse monoclonal antibody to HA tag (1/150) (Covence) diluted in M.O.M. TM            diluent
   (Vector Laboratories). After washing, sections were incubated for 1h at RT with the goat anti
   mouse antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor-594nm (1/500) (Molecular Probes) diluted in
   M.O.M.TM    diluent. Subsequently, sections were washed and blocked in PBS, 0.3% Triton,
   2% NGS for 1h30 at RT, washed and incubated for 2h at RT with the rabbit polyclonal
25 antibody to prohibitin (1/150) (Abcam) diluted in PBS-BTN. The Alexa Fluor-488nm goat
   anti-rabbit antibody (1/500) (Molecular Probes) was incubated 1h30 at RT with the goat anti
   rabbit antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor-488nm (Molecular Probes) diluted at 1/500 in
   PBS-BTN. Sections were stained with Hoechst and mounted using Aqua-Polymount
   mounting medium (Polysciences, Inc).
30         Confocal analysis was performed on a Leica TCS SP2 upright confocal microsystem
   with a Plan Apo CS (numerical aperture 1.4) 63x objective. Observation of whole cardiac
   cryosections was performed on a Leica Z16 APO A microsystem fitted with a QuanteM
   S12SC camera and combined with a 2x objective (39 mm working distance).

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
           Quantitative  real-time PCR Total
           Total RNA was extracted from frozen heart pulverized with the Precellys24
   homogeniser (Bertin Technologies) and using TRI Reagent (MRC) according to the
   manufacturer's protocol and was treated with DNAse I treatment (Roche Biosciences). cDNA
 5 was generated by reverse transcription using the Transcriptor Fist strand cDNA synthesis kit
   (Roche biosciences). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using the SYBR Green I Master
   (Roche biosciences) and light Cycler 480 (Roche biosciences) with primers described in
   Supplementary Table S3. 18S ribosomal RNA was used as internal standard.
 0         Enzyme activities
           Tissues were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen. The activities of the respiratory
   chain enzyme SDH (complex II), the citric acid cycle enzymes isocitrate dehydrogenase, and
   mitochondrial and cytosolic aconitases were determined as described (Puccio, Simon et al.
   2001).
 5
           Immunoblot analysis
           Extracts of tissues were frozen in liquid nitrogen, and then homogenized in lysis buffer
   containing Tris-HCl (280 mM, pH 6.8), 10% SDS, 50% glycerol. Total protein extract (10 gg
   or 50 gg) was analyzed on SDS-glycine polyacrylamide gels. Proteins were transferred to
 0 nitrocellulose membranes blocked with 5% non-fat milk and then incubated with the different
   primary antibodies, polyclonal anti-frataxin (R1250 purified sera IGBMC, 1/1,000), anti-HA
   (Covance, 1/500), anti-mitochondrial aconitase (R2377 purified sera IGBMC, 1/20,000), anti
   Ndufs3 (Invitrogen, 1/4,000), anti-SDH (Invitrogen, 1/4,000), anti-Rieske (Abcam, 1/5,000),
   anti-lipoic acid (Calbiochem, 1/5,000), anti-GAPDH (Millipore, 1/10,000) and monoclonal
25 anti-beta-tubulin (2A2, IGBMC 1/1,000). Secondary antibody (goat anti-rabbit or anti-mouse
   IgG, respectively) coupled to peroxidase was diluted at 1/5,000 and used for detection of the
   reaction with Supersignal Substrate Western blotting (Pierce), according to the
   manufacturer's instructions.
30         Statistical Analysis
           All data are presented as mean  standard deviation of the mean (SD). Statistical
   analysis was carried out using Statview software (SAS Institute Inc). For statistical
   comparison of three experimental groups, one-way ANOVA followed by Scheff6's post-hoc
   test was used. A value of P<0.05 was considered significant. For statistical comparison of two

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
   experimental groups, the bilateral Student's t-test was used. P <0.05 was considered
   significant.
            Quantitative PCR on genomic DNA
 5          Genomic DNA was extracted from heart by using a phenol-chloroform method.
   AAVrh1O.CAG-FXN vector genome copy numbers were measured by quantitative PCR
   using the SYBR Green I Master (Roche Biosciences) and light Cycler 480 (Roche
   Biosciences). The vector genome copy number per cell (VGC) was evaluated as described
   (Piguet, Sondhi et al. 2012). The mouse genomic Adck3 sequence was used as internal
 0 control.
            Results
            Three week-old MCK mice that do not exhibit yet any clinical, echocardiographic nor
 5 biochemical signs of cardiac disease, received a single intravenous injection of AAVrh10
   CAG-hFXN at the dose of 5.4x10 1 3 vg/kg (n=9). Serial echocardiographic measurements
   identified that the treatment efficiently prevented the development of the cardiac disease
   associated with frataxin deficiency. While untreated MCK mice developed a rapidly
   progressing left ventricle hypertrophy associated with a massive geometric remodeling
 0 characterized by increased left-ventricular diastolic diameter, the treated MCK mice were
   indistinguishable from wild-type (WT) littermate animals (data not shown). In parallel,
   systolic function evaluated by the left-ventricular shortening fraction (SF) and the cardiac
   output gradually decreased in untreated mice, while the treated MCK mice showed no sign of
   altered ventricular contractility (data not shown). The absence of echocardiographic
25 phenotype in the treated MCK mice lead to normal growth (data not shown) and survival (35
   weeks with no sign of disease), in contrast to untreated mice which die at 65+10 days (Fig.
   1A). To assess the cellular and molecular state of the cardiomyocytes, treated MCK mice
   were sacrificed at 35 weeks of age i.e. more than triple lifespan of untreated mice. Consistent
   with the evolution towards heart failure, the expression of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and
30 the brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), two markers of pathology-induced stress program induced
   by hemodynamic overload was markedly increased in the heart from untreated mice at 8
   weeks compared to WT (19 and 7 times, respectively, p<0.001) (Fig. 1B). In contrast, no
   difference could be detected in the expression level of these two markers between the treated
   MCK mice and the WT littermates, supporting the absence of pathology-induced stress

       WO 2014/118346                                                       PCT/EP2014/051966
   programme due to hemodynamic overload (Fig. 1B). Furthermore, while the expression of
   sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (Serca2a), a critical determinant of cardiac relaxation
   responsible for diastolic Ca2+ reuptake from cytosol was reduced in untreated mice (3.3 fold,
   p<0.01), treated MCK mice had normal Serca2a levels (Fig. IC). Histological analysis
 5 confirmed a preserved overall heart organization in 35 week-old treated MCK mice,
   compared to the myocardial degeneration with cytoplasmic vacuolization in the necrotic
   cardiomyocytes observed in untreated mice at 8 weeks of age (data not shown). Furthermore,
   Sirius-red staining (data not shown) and collagen type I and III mRNA expression (data not
   shown) indicated the absence of myocardial post-necrotic fibrosis in treated animals, in
 0 comparison to the massive interstitial fibrosis present in untreated MCK mice at 8 weeks (data
   not shown).
           Intravenous injection of AAVrh10-FXN led to robust viral transduction of the heart
   (20.85+6.3 vg/cell) and liver, but also of skeletal muscle and dorsal root ganglia (data not
 5 shown). Western blot analysis using an anti-FXN antibody, which equally detects human and
   mouse frataxins, demonstrated a significant overexpression (>10 fold) of AAVrhlO-encoded
   frataxin compared to endogenous frataxin of WT mice (data not shown). Sustained expression
   of the AAVrhlO-encoded frataxin was seen over 35 weeks (data not shown). Mitochondrial
   import and maturation of frataxin was complete and non-saturated, as only the cleaved mature
 0 form of human frataxin was detected (data not shown). Immunohistochemistry analysis using
   both anti-FXN and anti-HA antibodies showed a broad expression of human frataxin
   throughout the heart of the AAV treated MCK mice, with close to 100% of transduced
   cardiomyocytes in the LV, RV and septum, with some cardiomyocytes expressing higher
   levels (data not     shown). Co-localization with prohibitin demonstrated the expected
25 mitochondrial localization of human frataxin (data not shown).
           In line with the essential function of frataxin in regulating cellular Fe-S cluster
   biogenesis, it is now commonly accepted that frataxin deficiency leads to a primary Fe-S
   cluster deficit followed by secondary mitochondrial iron accumulation. Indeed, while
30 untreated MCK mice showed a strong deficit in the Fe-S mitochondrial aconitase (mAco) and
   succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) (41.3% and 79.8%, respectively) (data not shown), treated
   mice presented levels of activities similar to WT littermates. Consistent with the widespread
   expression of hFXN in the heart after AAVrh1O-CAG-hFXN injection, colorimetric staining
   of SDH activity confirmed the correction of Fe-S biogenesis in over 95% of cardiomyocytes

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
   (data not shown). While a substantial decrease in the levels of all analysed mitochondrial Fe-S
   proteins, was detected in untreated mice, as a result of the instability of the respective Fe-S
   apo-proteins, treated mutants had levels equivalent to WT (data not shown). Similarly,
   expression of human frataxin prevented the decrease in activity of the Fe-S enzyme lipoic
 5 acid synthase, indirectly demonstrated by normal levels of lipoic acid bound a-ketoglutarate
   dehydrogenase (KGDH) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) in treated animals in comparison
   to untreated animals (data not shown). Consistent with the absence of Fe-S cluster deficit, no
   cellular iron accumulation was observed in the cardiac tissue of treated mice (data not shown).
   Furthermore, we did not detect any sign of cellular iron homeostasis perturbation in treated
 0 animals (data not shown). Finally, electron microscopy analysis demonstrated a normal
   sarcomere organization of the cardiomyocytes and mitochondria ultrastructure in treated mice.
   Untreated animals     showed sparse atrophied       myofibrils and massive mitochondrial
   proliferation with abnormal collapsed or swollen cristae and iron accumulation (data not
   shown). All together, these data indicate that human frataxin gene transfer using AAVrh10 in
 5 pre-symptomatic MCK mice prevented the development of the mitochondrial FRDA
   cardiomyopathy at the molecular, cellular and physiological level.
           While preventing the onset of the cardiomyopathy is an important step, at a clinical
   point of view it appears crucial to determine the therapeutic potential of this gene therapy
 0 approach when cardiac dysfunction is already present. Mutant MCK mice were intravenously
   injected with AAVrh1O-CAG-hFXN at the dose of 5.4x10 13 vg/kg (n=9) at 7 weeks, when the
   ventricular remodeling and left ventricular systolic dysfunction are established, with a major
   decrease in cardiac output (609% versus control values), attesting of cardiac failure. One
   week after injection at 8 weeks of age, the LV function was already significantly improved,
25 with a 49+5% ejection fraction and a decrease in LV hypertrophy and dilation in the treated
   mutant mice, whereas untreated animals presented typical signs of heart failure (Fig. 2A).
   Echocardiographic parameters regarding cardiac function progressively improved to reach
   WT values at 11-12 weeks of age, demonstrating a complete recovery of the ventricular
   systolic function and anatomy. The survival of the mice was significantly prolonged until at
30 least 18 weeks of age (Fig. 2B). In accordance with the rapid reversion observed by
   echocardiography, human FXN was already strongly expressed one week after injection in
   heart of treated mutant mice and sustained over 22 weeks, with a mitochondrial localization
   (data not shown). Similarly, the pathology-induced stress program induced by hemodynamic
   overload, reflected by the expression of ANP and BNP, was significantly decreased one week

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
   after injection (8 weeks) in treated mice (Fig. 2C). By 22 weeks, the expression level of ANP
   and BNP of treated MCK mice was close to the expression level of WT animals, suggesting a
   normalization     of the hemodynamic       load.  Furthermore,   the   expression of Serca2a
   progressively increased in treated mice between 8 and 22 weeks, indicating that diastolic
 5 Ca2+ transport was likely restored (Fig. 2C). The reversal and correction of the cardiac
   phenotype correlated with a progressive increased in Fe-S proteins activities, mAco and SDH,
   in levels of the Fe-S proteins Ndufs3, SDH, Rieske, as well as in the lipoic acid bound PDH
   and KGDH (Fig. 2D). At 22 weeks, some rare patches with low SDH activity were detected
   in the cardiac tissue of treated mice (data not shown), corresponding to fibrotic scar probably
 0 already present at the time of treated. Interestingly, collagen staining and expression (type I
   and III) showed that interstitial cardiac fibrosis stopped one week post injection (data not
   shown). Strikingly, a rapid correction of the ultrastructure of the cardiac muscle was also
   observed one week after injection, with normal sarcomere organization and with a massive
   decrease in mitochondria (data not shown). In correlation with a still incomplete recovery of
 5 the biochemical phenotype one week after treatment, the mitochondria in the treated animals
   showed some signs of pathology, with the presence of some swollen mitochondria presenting
   parallel stacks of cristae membranes (data not shown). However, by 22 weeks, sarcomeres
   and mitochondria organizations completely recovered with no sign of pathological change.
   All together, these data indicate that AAVrh1O.CAG-hFXN treatment in symptomatic MCK
 0 mice resulted in a rapid clinical, echocardiographic and biochemical improvement with a
   complete correction of the FRDA cardiomyopathy.
           Conclusion
           Our data demonstrates that AAVrh1O-mediated transfer of hFXN gene in the
25 myocardium of a mouse model of severe FRDA cardiomyopathy not only prevents the onset
   of the disease for a sustained period, but also can reverse heart failure and cardiac
   remodelling. The correction is extremely rapid and efficient, with a striking reversal of the
   mitochondrial abnormalities and biochemical Fe-S proteins deficit one week after treatment.
   Despite the severity of cardiac insufficiency at the time of treatment, the cardiac recovery is
30 rapidly progressive, reaching normality within 4-5 weeks of treatment.
           Indeed, the correction of mitochondrial dysfunction in the mouse was associated with
   a progressive increase of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (Serca2a) gene expression
   involved in sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium uptake from cytosol. Interestingly, decrease in the
   expression and activity of Serca2a has been identified in cardiomyocytes from failing human

       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
   hearts. A rapid correction of the ultrastructure of the cardiac muscle was also observed and
   the interstitial cardiac fibrosis was stopped one week after treatment, preventing the dilation
   and massive remodelling of the cardiac tissue. Fibrosis is an early manifestation of FRDA
   cardiomyopathy and its importance in organ pathology and dysfunction is relevant to a wide
 5 variety of diseases, including heart diseases.
           In conclusion, delivery of a vector encoding hFXN in a mammalian model of FRDA
   cardiomyopathy resulted in i) prevention of the development of disease symptoms in
   asymptomatic individuals and ii) reversal of disease symptoms in individuals who already
   exhibited cardiomyopathy, biochemical Fe-S cluster impairment, mitochondrial dysfunction
 0 and interstitial cardiac fibrosis.
           Thus, the use of a gene that can restore energy failure may be useful for the treatment
   and the prevention of a cardiomyopathy due to energy failure (like the use of FXN gene in the
   case of cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia as explained in the examples).
 5         Example 2: Determination of the minimal dose of AAVrh1O.CAG-FXN vector
   injected inducing a detectable level of cardiac transgene expression
           Material & Methods
           The dose-response evaluation was conducted in 5 weeks-old MCK mice with early
 0 stage systolic dysfunction using the same experimental design as described above. All animal
   procedures and experiments were approved by the local ethical committee for Animal Care
   and Use (Com'Eth 2012-016). Briefly, mice were anesthetized and then injected retro-orbitaly
   with 100gL of AAVrh1O.CAG-FXN vector solution diluted in saline solution, for a final
   injected-dose of 5x10 1", 2.5x10", 1x10 1" and 5x10 12 vg/kg, respectively (Table 1). Age
25 matched WT mice were injected with 1OOgL of saline solution, as control. Survival, growth
   and cardiac function were evaluated weekly up to 12 weeks of age (Fig. 1). All mice were
   sacrificed at 12 weeks of age. Heart was sampled and dissected transversally in order to snap
   freeze a small transversal section of 1-2mm thick from the middle of the left-ventricle and to
   process separately the apex and the middle-to-base of the heart which were embedded in OCT
30 Tissue Tek and snap-frozen in isopentane chilled in liquid nitrogen. The OCT-included heart
   samples were cut alternatively at 5 and 100pm from the apex to the base of the heart. H&E
   staining as well as SDH and COX activities were performed on 5pim heart sections, at the
   level of the apex, middle and base of the left ventricle. Imaging of whole heart sections was
   performed at high magnification with the Hamamatsu NanoZoomer 2.0 slide scanner and

       WO 2014/118346                                                          PCT/EP2014/051966
   analysis were performed using ImageJ following the color threshold method. RNA and DNA
   were extracted from 100pm thick cryosection following the trizol-based protocol as described
   above. The apex, middle and base of the left-ventricle were analyzed separately. Vector copy
   per diploid genome and relative expression of transgene were quantified as described above.
 5
           Results
           The dose of 5x10 13 vg/kg used in the original study allows transduction of near 100%
   of the cardiomyocytes, a transduction efficiency that will very unlikely be achieved in
   humans. Therefore, to determine the lower therapeutic threshold that is required to rescue the
 0 cardiomyopathy associated with frataxin deficiency in the MCK mice, a dose-response study
   was performed. MCK mice with early stage systolic dysfunction were intravenously injected
   with AAVrh1O-CAG-hFXN at a dose of 5x10 1 3 , 2.5x10 1 3 , 1x10   3
                                                                        , and 5x10 12 vg/kg (n=2-3
   per dose), respectively, at 5-weeks of age. Serial echocardiographic measurements were
   performed weekly up to 12 weeks of age. Although some variability was observed, MCK
 5 mice injected at the highest doses (5x10 13 , 2.5x10 13 and 1x10   3
                                                                          vg/kg) did not show any
   hemodynamic nor morphological anomaly up to 12 weeks of age (Fig. la-d, Table 1),
   demonstrating efficient correction of the early stage systolic dysfunction and prevention of
   cardiac failure onset associated with FXN deficiency. At the lower dose, 5x10 12 vg/kg, while
   the hemodynamic and morphological measurements are stable and consistent with a
 0 correction of the early stage systolic dysfunction and prevention of cardiac failure onset up to
   10 weeks of age, a systolic dysfunction (Fig. 1 a-b) accompanied by a left ventricular
   remodeling (Fig. ld) was observed starting 10 weeks of age leading to a rapid declined of the
   cardiac output (Fig. 1c).
           All animals in each dose tested were sacrificed at 12 weeks of age to determine the
25 transduction efficiency by measuring the vector genome copy per diploid genome and the
   percentage of corrected cardiomyocytes by SDH staining (Table 1). While variability was
   observed in the number of vector genome copy per cell, in particular at lower doses, we find a
   correlation between the vector genome copy, the percentage of SDH positive cells (which
   correlates very well with the percentage of frataxin expressing cells) and cardiac function
30 (Table 1). Together, these results suggest that at 5 weeks of age, the therapeutic threshold
   appears to be around 2-3 vg/cell, with 50-60% of SDH positive cardiomyocytes.
           Example 3: Efficient transduction of monkey and pig cardiomyocytes                  after
   intramyocardial injection of AAVrh10 vector

       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
           Material & Methods
           AAVrh1O-CAG-GFP vector was administered using an identical cardiac surgery
   procedure in monkey and pig. Following general anesthesia, a median sternotomy was
 5 performed. The AAVrh1O-CAG-GFP vector was administered directly to the myocardium of
   the left ventricle as subepicardial injections. In monkey, 9 subepicardial injections were
   performed, with 3 subepicardial injections 0.5 cm apart in 3 spots (1.66x10"' vg of vector per
   injection, 40 g/injection). The total dose of injected vector per spot was 5x10 1 0 vg. In pig, 18
   subepicardial injections were performed with 3 subepicardial injections in 6 different spots (3
 0 vector injections per spot). In one spot, 3 vector injections were made 0.5 cm apart (as in
   monkey) and 1.66 x10 10 vg (as in monkey) of vector diluted in 40 gl of PBS was injected at
   each site. In the 5 other spots, vector injection was made 1 cm apart with 8,3x0 1 0
   vg/injection in 3 spots and 1.25x10" vg/injection in 2 spots. The total dose of injected vector
   per spot was therefore 5x101 0 vg (1 spot), 2.5x10" vg (3 spots) and 3.75x10" vg (2 spots).
 5 The cardiac surgery procedure and vector injection were associated with no adverse event,
   even minimal. In pig, cardiac echography performed 10 days after vector injection was
   normal, showing no changes in respect to cardiac parameters observed immediately prior to
   cardiac surgery.
           Monkey and pig were euthanized 3 weeks after vector injection. The left ventricle was
 0 dissected from the remaining part of the heart and trimmed in 4 (monkey) or 10 (pig) separate
   pieces along antero-longitudinal axis. Each piece of left ventricle was then cut in 20 mm-thick
   slices and one out of two slices were processed for directed visualization of GFP expression
   under fluorescence microscopy. The other slices were processed for DNA extraction to
   measure vector copy number. Percentage of GFP-positive cardiomyocytes was assessed using
25 an in-house software. Vector copy number was assessed using quantitative PCR with primers
   targeting the ITR2 of AAVrh10-CAG-GFP vector and the endogenous albumin gene. Vector
   copy number was assessed using the cycle (Ct) threshold to detect albumin or ITR2
   sequences. At autopsy, there was no macroscopic lesion of left ventricle in monkey and pig.
   In monkey, there was a mild inflammatory reaction in the myocardium around 2 injection
30 sites in which GFP expression was observed. There was no inflammatory reaction in the
   myocardium of vector-injected pig.
           Results

                                                - 30
       WO 2014/118346                                                         PCT/EP2014/051966
           Intravenous injection of AAVrh1O-CAG-hFXN vector will likely not be feasible in
   FRDA patients because it would require the injection of a very high dose of vector that could
   result in significant adverse events, mostly related to an immune reaction against the
   AAVrh1O capsid in the periphery. Direct intra-myocardial injection of gene therapy vector
 5 through subepicardial injections following mini-thoracotomy has proven to be safe over an
   average of nearly 12-year follow-up period (Rosengart TK et al, Hum Gene Ther, 2 :203-208,
   2013). The transduction efficacy of AAV of a given serotype in a given tissue can be species
   specific. At last efficacy of hFXN gene transfer in cardiomyocytes must be evaluated in a
   large animal whose heart size is similar to human. To answer to these important pre-clinical
 0 steps towards a gene therapy trial in patients with FRDA cardiomyopathy, AAVrh1O vector
   expressing the reporter green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of CAG promoter
   was injected directly into the myocardium of one monkey (Macaca fascicularis) and one pig.
   Monkey is the best animal model to anticipate that the observed transduction efficacy of an
   AAV vector of a given serotype in a given tissue will be similar in human patients. Two-three
 5 year-old pigs of 20-30 kg have a size of the heart, in particular of the left ventricle, which is
   similar to humans.
           AAVrh1O-CAG-GFP vector was directly delivered in the myocardium of a monkey
   through epicardial injections. Three separate spots of myocardium were injected with 3 vector
   injections per spot. At a non-optimized dose of 5x10 1 0 vector genome (vg) per spot, GFP
 0 expression was observed in 60% of cardiomyocytes (data not shown). The expression of GFP
   was similar in the 3 spots. The mean volume in each spot in which GFP was expressed was
   200 mm3. The mean vector copy number/cell was 1.2.
           AAVrh1O-CAG-GFP vector was then directly delivered in the myocardium of a pig
   through epicardial injections. Six separate spots of myocardium were injected with 3 vector
25 injections per spot. The spots were injected with different doses of vector : 5x10 1 0 vg
   (spot#1), 2.5x10" vg (spots# 2, 3 and 4) and 3.75x10"      vg (spots# 5 and 6). GFP expression
   was observed in 10% of cardiomyocytes in spot#1 whereas GFP expression was observed in
   50 to 95% of cardiomyocytes in spots#2, 3 and 4.        Injection of higher dose of AAVrh1O
   CAG-GFP vector in spots#5 and 6 did not result in significant better transduction of
30 cardiomyocytes. The mean volume in spots#2 to 6 in which GFP was expressed was 330
   mm3 . The mean vector copy number/cell in spots #2 to 4 was 1.8.
           Altogether, these results demonstrate that cardiomyocytes of monkey and pig are very
   well transduced by AAVrh1O vector following the direct administration of the vector to the
   myocardium. Results obtained in monkey indicates that 30 injections of higher dose of

       WO 2014/118346                                                       PCT/EP2014/051966
   AAVrh1O vector should be sufficient to transduce > 50% of cardiomyocytes of the left
   ventricle in human. Thirty epicardial viral vector injections following mini-thoracotomy has
   proven to be feasible (1-hour surgical procedure) and safe in humans (Rosengart TK et al,
   Hum Gene Ther, 2 :203-208, 2013). Results of transduction efficacy with AAVrh1O in pig
 5 cardiomyocytes indicates that this porcine animal model will be suitable to evaluate the total
   dose of AAVrh1O-CAG-hFXN vector that it will be needed to inject in the left ventricle
   myocardium of FRDA patients to express frataxin in > 50% of their cardiomyocytes.
 0         REFERENCES:
           Throughout this application, various references, including United States patents and
   patent applications, describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains. The
   disclosures of these references are hereby incorporated by reference in entirety into the
 5 present disclosure.
           C. L. Tsai, D. P. Barondeau, Human frataxin is an allosteric switch that activates the
   Fe-S cluster biosynthetic complex. Biochemistry 49, 9132 (Nov 2, 2010).
           D. Simon, Seznec H, Gansmuller A, Carelle N, Weber P, Metzger D, Rustin P, Koenig
 0 M, Puccio H. Friedreich ataxia mouse models with progressive cerebellar and sensory ataxia
   reveal autophagic neurodegeneration      in dorsal root ganglia. J Neurosci. 2004 Feb
   25;24(8):1987-95.
           D. Sondhi, N. R. Hackett, et al. (2007). "Enhanced survival of the LINCL mouse
   following CLN2 gene transfer using the rh. 10 rhesus macaque-derived adeno-associated virus
25 vector." Molecular therapy: the journal of the American Society of Gene Therapy 15(3): 481
   491.
           F. Colin, Martelli A, Cl6mancey M, Latour JM, Gambarelli S, Zeppieri L, Birck C,
   Page A, Puccio H, Ollagnier de Choudens S. Mammalian Frataxin Controls Sulfur Production
   and Iron Entry during de Novo Fe(4)S(4) Cluster Assembly. J Am Chem Soc. 2013 Jan
30 16;135(2):733-40.
           F. Piguet, D. Sondhi, et al. (2012). "Correction of brain oligodendrocytes by
   AAVrh.10 intracerebral gene therapy in metachromatic leukodystrophy mice." Human gene
   therapy 23(8): 903-914.

                                                -  30
       WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
            H. Puccio, Simon D, Coss6e M, Criqui-Filipe P, Tiziano F, Melki J, Hindelang C,
   Matyas R, Rustin P, Koenig M. Mouse models for Friedreich ataxia exhibit cardiomyopathy,
   sensory nerve defect and Fe-S enzyme deficiency followed by intramitochondrial iron
   deposits. Nat Genet. 2001 Feb;27(2):181-6.
 5          H. Puccio, D. Simon, et al. (2001). "Mouse models for Friedreich ataxia exhibit
   cardiomyopathy,     sensory   nerve   defect   and  Fe-S   enzyme    deficiency   followed    by
   intramitochondrial iron deposits." Nat Genet 27(2): 181-186.
            H. Puccio et al., Mouse models for Friedreich ataxia exhibit cardiomyopathy, sensory
   nerve defect and Fe-S enzyme deficiency followed by intramitochondrial iron deposits. Nat
 0 Genet 27, 181 (Feb, 2001).
            H. Seznec et al., Idebenone delays the onset of cardiac functional alteration without
   correction of Fe-S enzymes deficit in a mouse model for Friedreich ataxia. Hum Mol Genet
   13, 1017 (May 15, 2004).
            H. Seznec, D. Simon, et al. (2004). "Idebenone delays the onset of cardiac functional
 5 alteration without correction of Fe-S enzymes deficit in a mouse model for Friedreich ataxia."
   Hum Mol Genet 13(10): 1017-1024.
            J. Rabinowitz, E., F. Rolling, et al. (2002). "Cross-packaging of a single adeno
   associated virus (AAV) type 2 vector genome into multiple AAV serotypes enables
   transduction with broad specificity." Journal of virology 76(2): 791-801.
 0          Lynch DR, Farmer JM, Balcer U, Wilson RB. Friedreich ataxia effects of genetic
   understanding on clinical evaluation and therapy. Arch Neurol. 2002;59:743-747.
            R. B. Wilson, Therapeutic Developments in Friedreich Ataxia. J Child Neurol, (Jul 12,
   2012).
            R. M. Payne, G. R. Wagner, Cardiomyopathy in Friedreich Ataxia: Clinical Findings
25 and Research. J Child Neurol, (Jul 4, 2012).
            S. Schmucker et al., Mammalian frataxin: an essential function for cellular viability
   through an interaction with a preformed ISCU/NFS1/ISD1 1 iron-sulfur assembly complex.
   PLoS One 6, e16199 (2011).
            Sweeney HL, Feng HS, Yang Z, Watkins H. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Nov
30 24;95(24):14406-10.
           V. Campuzano et al., Friedreich's ataxia: autosomal recessive disease caused by an
   intronic GAA triplet repeat expansion. Science 271, 1423 (1996).
           V. Campuzano et al., Frataxin is reduced in Friedreich ataxia patients and is associated
   with mitochondrial membranes. Hum Mol Genet 6, 1771 (Oct, 1997).

   WO 2014/118346                                                     PCT/EP2014/051966
                                              CLAIMS:
   1. A method for preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due to energy failure in a subject
       in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective
 5     amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a gene that can restore
       energy failure.
   2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the cardiomyopathy due to energy failure is
       a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia and the gene that can restore
       energy failure is the frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
 0 3.  The method according to claim 1, wherein said FXN encoding nucleic acid encodes
       for the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO:2.
   4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vector of claim comprises the nucleic
       acid sequence SEQ ID NO:1.
   5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vector is selected from the group
 5     consisting of adenovirus, retrovirus, herpesvirus and Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV)
       vectors.
   6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the vector is an AAV vector.
   7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the AAV vector is an AAV1, AAV2,
       AAV3, AAV4, AA5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh10 vector or any AAV
20     derived vector.
   8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the AAV vector is an AAVrh10 vector.
   9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vector is administered intracoronary or
       directly into the myocardium of the subject.
   10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vector is administered by intravenous
25     injection.
   11. A pharmaceutical composition for preventing or treating cardiomyopathy due to
       energy failure in a subject in need thereof, comprising a therapeutically effective

   WO 2014/118346                                                        PCT/EP2014/051966
       amount of a vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a gene that can restore
       energy failure.
   12. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 11 wherein the cardiomyopathy due
       to energy failure is a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia and the gene
 5     that can restore energy failure is the frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid.
   13. A method for reversing symptoms of cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich
       ataxia in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to said subject a
       therapeutically effective amount of a vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN)
       encoding nucleic acid.
 0 14. A vector which comprises a nucleic acid sequence of a gene that can restore energy
       failure for use in treatment or prevention of cardiomyopathy due to energy failure in a
       subject in need thereof
   15. A vector according to claim 14 wherein the vector comprises a frataxin (FXN)
       encoding nucleic acid.
 5 16. A vector according       to claims     14 or    15 wherein the cardiomyopathy is a
       cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia.
   17. A vector according to claims 14 to 16 wherein the vector is an AAVrh1O vector.
   18. A vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for reversing
       symptoms of cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a subject in need
20     thereof
   19. A vector which comprises a frataxin (FXN) encoding nucleic acid for use in the
       treatment of a cardiomyopathy associated with Friedreich ataxia in a symptomatic
       subject in need thereof
   20. A vector according to claim 19 wherein the vector is an AAVrh1O vector.
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                              eol f - s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                                                     SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>     I NSERM
              <120>     METHODS AND PHARMACEUTI CAL COMPOSI TI ON FOR THE TREATMENT AND THE
                        PREVENTI ON FRI EDREI CH ATAXI A
              <130>     BI O12364 PUCCI O
              <160>     2
              <170>     Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 3
<removed-apn>
              <210>     1
              <211>     7168
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400> 1
              agt c t c c c t t gggt c agggg t c c t ggt t gc ac t c c gt gc t t t gc ac aaag c aggc t c t c c           60
              at t t t t gt t a aat gc ac gaa t agt gc t aag c t gggaagt t c t t c c t gagg t c t aac c t c t           120
              agc t gc t c c c c c ac agaaga gt gc c t gc gg c c agt ggc c a c c aggggt c g c c gc agc ac c             180
              c agc gc t gga gggc ggagc g ggc ggc agac c c ggagc agc at gt ggac t c t c gggc gc c g                     240
              c gc agt agc c ggc c t c c t gg c gt c ac c c ag c c c agc c c ag gc c c agac c c t c ac c c gggt         300
              c c c gc ggc c g gc agagt t gg c c c c ac t c t g c ggc c gc c gt ggc c t gc gc a c c gac at c ga         360
              t gc gac c t gc ac gc c c c gc c gc gc aagt t c gaac c aac gt ggc c t c aac c agat t t ggaa               420
              t gt c aaaaag c agagt gt c t at t t gat gaa t t t gaggaaa t c t ggaac t t t gggc c ac c c                 480
              aggc t c t c t a gat gagac c a c c t at gaaag ac t agc agag gaaac gc t gg ac t c t t t agc                540
              agagt t t t t t gaagac c t t g c agac aagc c at ac ac gt t t gaggac t at g at gt c t c c t t              600
              t gggagt ggt gt c t t aac t g t c aaac t ggg t ggagat c t a ggaac c t at g t gat c aac aa                 660
              gc agac gc c a aac aagc aaa t c t ggc t at c t t c t c c at c c agt ggac c t a agc gt t at ga             720
              c t ggac t ggg aaaaac t ggg t gt ac t c c c a c gac ggc gt g t c c c t c c at g agc t gc t ggc            780
              c gc agagc t c ac t aaagc c t t aaaaac c aa ac t ggac t t g t c t t c c t t gg c c t at t c c gg          840
              aaaagat gc t t gat gc c c ag c c c c gt t t t a aggac at t aa aagc t at c ag gc c aagac c c               900
              c agc t t c at t at gc agc t ga ggt c t gt t t t t t gt t gt t gt t gt t gt t t at t t t t t t t at t     960
              c c t gc t t t t g aggac agt t g ggc t at gt gt c ac agc t c t g t agaaagaat gt gt t gc c t c            1020
              c t ac c t t gc c c c c aagt t c t gat t t t t aat t t c t at ggaa gat t t t t t gg at t gt c ggat       1080
              t t c c t c c c t c ac at gat ac c c c t t at c t t t t at aat gt c t t at gc c t at a c c t gaat at a   1140
              ac aac c t t t a aaaaagc aaa at aat aagaa ggaaaaat t c c aggagggaa aat gaat t gt                         1200
              c t t c ac t c t t c at t c t t t ga aggat t t ac t gc aagaagt a c at gaagagc agc t ggt c aa             1260
              c c t gc t c ac t gt t c t at c t c c aaat gagac ac at t aaagg gt agc c t ac a aat gt t t t c a          1320
              ggc t t c t t t c aaagt gt aag c ac t t c t gag c t c t t t agc a t t gaagt gt c gaaagc aac t            1380
              c ac ac gggaa gat c at t t c t t at t t gt gc t c t gt gac t gc c aaggt gt gg c c t gc ac t gg           1440
              gt t gt c c agg gagac c t agt gc t gt t t c t c c c ac at at t c ac at ac gt gt c t gt gt gt at          1500
                                                                     Page 1

                                                                  eol f - s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              at at at t t t t t c aat t t aaa ggt t agt at g gaat c agc t g c t ac aagaat gc aaaaaat c               1560
              t t c c aaagac aagaaaagag gaaaaaaagc c gt t t t c at g agc t gagt ga t gt agc gt aa                     1620
              c aaac aaaat c at ggagc t g aggaggt gc c t t gt aaac at gaaggggc ag at aaaggaag                         1680
              gagat ac t c a t gt t gat aaa gagagc c c t g gt c c t agac a t agt t c agc c ac aaagt agt               1740
              t gt c c c t t t g t ggac aagt t t c c c aaat t c c c t ggac c t c t gc t t c c c c a t c t gt t aaat   1800
              gagagaat ag agt at ggt t g at t c c c agc a t t c agt ggt c c t gt c aagc a ac c t aac agg              1860
<removed-apn>
              c t agt t c t aa t t c c c t at t g ggt agat gag gggat gac aa agaac agt t t t t aagc t at a             1920
              t aggaaac at t gt t at t ggt gt t gc c c t at c gt gat t t c a gt t gaat t c a t gt gaaaat a            1980
              at agc c at c c t t ggc c t ggc gc ggt ggc t c ac ac c t gt aa t c c c agc ac t t t t ggaggc c          2040
              aaggt gggt g gat c ac c t ga ggt c aggagt t c aagac c ag c c t ggc c aac at gat gaaac                   2100
              c c c gt c t c t a c t aaaaat ac aaaaaat t ag c c gggc at ga t ggc aggt gc c t gt aat c c c             2160
              agc t ac t t gg gaggc t gaag c ggaagaat c gc t t gaac c c agaggt ggag gt t gc agt ga                    2220
              gc c gagat c g t gc c at t gc a c t gt aac c t g ggt gac t gag c aaaac t c t g t c t c aaaat a          2280
              at aat aac aa t at aat aat a at aat agc c a t c c t t t at t g t ac c c t t ac t gggt t aat c g         2340
              t at t at ac c a c at t ac c t c a t t t t aat t t t t ac t gac c t g c ac t t t at ac aaagc aac aa     2400
              gc c t c c agga c at t aaaat t c at gc aaagt t at gc t c at g t t at at t at t t t c t t ac t t a       2460
              aagaaggat t t at t agt ggc t gggc at ggt ggc gt gc ac c t gt aat c c c a ggt ac t c agg                 2520
              aggc t gagac gggagaat t g c t t gac c c c a ggc ggaggag gt t ac agt ga gt c gagat c g                   2580
              t ac c t gagc g ac agagc gag ac t c c gt c t c aaaaaaaaaa aaaaggaggg t t t at t aat g                   2640
              agaagt t t gt at t aat at gt agc aaaggc t t t t c c aat gg gt gaat aaaa ac ac at t c c a                2700
              t t aagt c aag c t gggagc ag t ggc at at ac c t at agt c c c agc t gc ac ag gaggc t gaga                2760
              c aggaggat t gc t t gaagc c aggaat t gga gat c agc c t g ggc aac ac ag c aagat c c t a                  2820
              t c t c t t aaaa aaagaaaaaa aaac c t at t a at aat aaaac agt at aaac a aaagc t aaat                     2880
              aggt aaaat a t t t t t t c t ga aat aaaat t a t t t t t t gagt c t gat ggaaa t gt t t aagt g            2940
              c agt aggc c a gt gc c agt ga gaaaat aaat aac at c at ac at gt t t gt at gt gt t t gc at                3000
              c t t gc t t c t a c t gaaagt t t c agt gc ac c c c ac t t ac t t a gaac t c ggt g ac at gat gt a       3060
              c t c c t t t at c t gggac ac ag c ac aaaagag gt at gc agt g gggc t gc t c t gac at gaaag               3120
              t ggaagt t aa ggaat c t ggg c t c t t at ggg gt c c t t gt gg gc c agc c c t t c aggc c t at t          3180
              t t ac t t t c at t t t ac at at a gc t c t aat t g gt t t gat t at c t c gt t c c c a aggc agt ggg     3240
              agat c c c c at t t aaggaaag aaaaggggc c t ggc ac agt g gc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c ag                3300
              c ac t t t ggga ggc t gaggc a agt gt at c ac c t gaggt c ag gagt t c aaga c c agc c t ggc               3360
              c aac at ggc a aaat c c c gt c t c t ac t aaaa at at t aaaaa at t ggc t ggg c gt ggt ggt t              3420
              c gt gc c t at a at t t c agc t a c t c aggaggc t gaggc agga gaat c gc t gt aac c t ggggg               3480
              gt ggaggt t g c agt gagac g agat c at gc c ac t t c ac t c c agc c t ggc c a ac agagc c at              3540
                                                                Page 2

                                                                  eol f - s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              ac t c c gt c t c aaat aaat aa at aaat aaat aaagggac t t c aaac ac at g aac agc agc c                   3600
              aggggaagaa t c aaaat c at at t c t gt c aa gc aaac t gga aaagt ac c ac t gt gt gt ac c                  3660
              aat agc c t c c c c ac c ac aga c c c t gggagc at c gc c t c at t t at ggt gt g gt c c agt c at         3720
              c c at gt gaag gat gagt t t c c aggaaaagg t t at t aaat a t t c ac t gt aa c at ac t ggag               3780
              gaggt gagga at t gc at aat ac aat c t t ag aaaac t t t t t t t t c c c c t t t c t at t t t t t g       3840
              agac aggat c t c ac t t t ggc ac t c aggc t g gaggac agt g gt ac aat c aa agc t c at ggc                3900
<removed-apn>
              agc c t c gac c t c c c t gggc t t gggc aat c c t c c c ac aggt gt gc ac c t c c at agc t ggc t         3960
              aat t t gt gt a t t t t t t gt ag agat ggggt t t c ac c at gt t gc c c aggc t g gt c t c t aac a        4020
              c t t aggc t c a agt gat c c ac c t gc c t c gt c c t c c c aagat gc t gggat t a c aggt gt gt g         4080
              c c ac aggt gt t c at c agaaa gc t t t t t c t a t t at t t t t ac c t t c t t gagt gggt agaac c        4140
              t c agc c ac at agaaaat aaa at gt t c t ggc at gac t t at t t agc t c t c t g gaat t ac aaa             4200
              gaaggaat ga ggt gt gt aaa agagaac c t g ggt t t t t gaa t c ac aaat t t agaat t t aat                   4260
              c gaaac t c t g c c t c t t ac t t gt t t gt agac ac t gac agt g gc c t c at gt t t t t t t t t t t t   4320
              t t aat c t at a aaat ggagat at c t aac at g t t gagc c t gg gc c c ac aggc aaagc ac aat                4380
              c c t gat gt ga gaagt ac t c a gt t c at gac a ac t gt t gt t c t c ac at gc at agc at aat t t          4440
              c at at t c ac a t t ggaggac t t c t c c c aaaa t at ggat gac gt t c c c t ac t c aac c t t gaa         4500
              c t t aat c aaa at ac t c agt t t ac t t aac t t c gt at t agat t c t gat t c c c t ggaac c at t        4560
              t at c gt gt gc c t t ac c at gc t t at at t t t a c t t gat c t t t t gc at ac c t t c t aaaac t at    4620
              t t t agc c aat t t aaaat t t g ac agt t t gc a t t aaat t at a ggt t t ac aat at gc t t t at c         4680
              c agc t at ac c t gc c c c aaat t c t gac agat gc t t t t gc c a c c t c t aaagg aagac c c at g         4740
              t t c at agt ga t ggagt t t gt gt ggac t aac c at gc aaggt t gc c aaggaa aaat c gc t t t                4800
              ac gc t t c c aa ggt ac ac ac t aagat gaaag t aat t t t agt c c gt gt c c ag t t ggat t c t t           4860
              ggc ac at agt t at c t t c t gc t agaac aaac t aaaac agc t ac at gc c agc aagggagaaa                    4920
              ggggaaggag gggc aaagt t t t gaaat t t c at gt aaat t t at gc t gt t c a aaac gac gag                    4980
              t t c at gac t t t gt gt at aga gt aagaaat g c c t t t t c t t t t t t gagac ag agt c t t gc t c        5040
              t gt c ac c c ag gc t ggagt gc agt ggc ac ga t c t gggc t c a c t ac aac c t c c gc c t c c t gg        5100
              gt t c aagc aa t t c t c t gc c t c agc c t c c c g agt agc t ggg at t ac aggt g c c t gc c ac c a      5160
              c ac c c ggc t a at t t t t gt at t t t t agt aga gac ggggt t t c ac c at c at g gc c aggc t gg         5220
              t c t t gaac t c c t gac c t agt aat c c ac c t g c c t c c gc c t c c c aaagt gc t gggat t ac ag       5280
              gc gt gagc c a c t gc ac c c ag c c agaaat gc c t t c t aat c t t t ggt t t at c t t aat t agc c        5340
              aggac ac t t g gagt gc at c c c gaagt ac c t gat c agt ggc c c c t t t ggaa t gt gt aaaac               5400
              t c agc t c ac t t at at c c c t g c at c c gc t ac agagac agaa t c c aagc t c a t at gt t c c at       5460
              c t t c t c t ggc t gt at agt t t aaggaat gga aggc ac c aga ac agat t t at t gaaat gt t t               5520
              at t agc t gaa gat t t at t t a gac agt t gag gaaaac at c a gc ac c c agc a gt aaaat t gg               5580
                                                                Page 3

                                                                     eol f - s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              c t c t c aaaga t t t t c t t c t c c t gt ggaaag t c agac c t c t gaggc c c c at c c aggt agaa               5640
              gt ac t agt gc aagaagggc c t c t gc t gt c c ac t t gt gt t t c t gt gat c t g t gggaac at t                  5700
              gt t aac gc c a c at c t t gac c t c aaat t gt t t agc t c c t gg c c agac ac gg t ggc t c ac ac              5760
              c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t ga gaggc t gagg c aggt ggat c ac c t gaggt t aggagt t c ga                      5820
              ggc c agc c t g gt c aac at gg t aaaac c c c g c c t c t ac t aa aaat ac aaaa at t agc t ggc                  5880
              c gt agt ggc g c ac gc c t gt t at c c c agc t a c t c gggaggc t gaggc agga gaat t gc t t g                   5940
<removed-apn>
              aac c t gggt g gt ggaggt t g c agt gagc c g agat t ac ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt g                    6000
              ac aagaggga aac t c c at t a aaaaaat gt a at t c c c gt gt c t gc c at c t t aagt gt aaag                     6060
              gt ggc t aaat t at at agaaa aat aagac aa t at c at t t c c c aat t ac at t c c t t t c c t ac                 6120
              c gc ac t c t at gat gc t agc t gagat t t t t c c aaaagaaaa t ggc t t aaat aaaac c c t aa                     6180
              gagaaagaaa aac t t t aaat c c c t c c aaag c t c aaaagt a at agaaac ag at gagt t t gg                         6240
              agt c aggat t t c t c t gt aag at t gc c t agg c t gt gt ac t g c ac at c t c c a ggt gc c ac t g             6300
              t t gac agaga t t at aac t ac aat gt gaagt gaat ggt gc c ac t gac agt t at gc aaac c g                        6360
              t c c agagc at agc c ac c t ga t c c t gc t ggg at t c c t c t t g c c agt c c at c agc agt t c c c           6420
              c t t gaaagt t t c ac c aaac a t c c c t t aaat c t gc c c t c t c c t gc c c gt c c c c agt ggagg            6480
              t c c t c at c at t t t t c ac c t g c at t t t t gc a ggagc t t t c t t at at c c ac c t t c c t c c t t t   6540
              t c t c t c agc c c at c at c t ag c t ac ac agt c t c c agggt aa gc t t t c agaa aggc aat c t c              6600
              t t gt c t gt aa aac c t aagc a ggac c aaggc c aagt t t c t t agc c t gaaaa at gt gc t t t t                  6660
              c t gac t gaac t gt t c aggc a c t gac t c t ac at at aat t at gc t t t t c t ac c c c c t c ac ac            6720
              t c aac ac t t t gac t c c agc a at c c c aaat c c c c agat c c c t aagt gt gc t gt gc t at t t t             6780
              c ac gt ggc t c t c agac t t gg c c agt gc t gt t t c c at t t t g gt c t t t at t c c c c ac at c t c        6840
              t gc c t ggggg gt agat t c t a c c c t gaaaaa t gt t c t t ggc ac agc c t t gc aaac t c c t c c               6900
              t c c ac t c agc c t c t gc c t gg at gc c c t t ga t t gt t c c at g t c c t c agc at ac c at gt t t g       6960
              t c t t t c c c ag c ac t gac c t a c c at gt gt c a c c c c t gc t t g gc t gt ac c t t c c at gaggc t       7020
              aggac t at gt gt c t c c t t t g t t gac t gc t g t t gc c c t agc at c t t gc ac a gt t c c t t gc a         7080
              c ac aat t aga gc t c t at aaa t gt c aaat aa at gt gt t at a at t at at gt t t aagat agt t                   7140
              gt t c aaat aa ac t c t aaat a ac c c c aac                                                                   7168
              <210>      2
              <211>      210
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      2
              Met Tr p Thr Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g Al a Val Al a Gl y Leu Leu Al a Ser Pr o
              1                5                       10                     15
              Ser Pr o Al a Gl n Al a Gl n Thr Leu Thr Ar g Val Pr o Ar g Pr o Al a Gl u
                                                        Page 4

                                                      eol f - s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                            20                      25                        30
              Leu Al a Pr o Leu Cy s Gl y Ar g Ar g Gl y Leu Ar g Thr As p I l e As p Al a
                       35                      40                     45
              Thr Cy s Thr Pr o Ar g Ar g Al a Ser Ser As n Gl n Ar g Gl y Leu As n Gl n
                  50                      55                     60
              I l e Tr p As n Val Ly s Ly s Gl n Ser Val Ty r Leu Met As n Leu Ar g Ly s
<removed-apn>
              65                       70                     75                    80
              Ser Gl y Thr Leu Gl y Hi s Pr o Gl y Ser Leu As p Gl u Thr Thr Ty r Gl u
                               85                      90                    95
              Ar g Leu Al a Gl u Gl u Thr Leu As p Ser Leu Al a Gl u Phe Phe Gl u As p
                            100                    105                   110
              Leu Al a As p Ly s Pr o Ty r Thr Phe Gl u As p Ty r As p Val Ser Phe Gl y
                       115                     120                     125
              Ser Gl y Val Leu Thr Val Ly s Leu Gl y Gl y As p Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Val
                  130                  135                     140
              I l e As n Ly s Gl n Thr Pr o As n Ly s Gl n I l e Tr p Leu Ser Ser Pr o Ser
              145                      150                       155                   160
              Ser Gl y Pr o Ly s Ar g Ty r As p Tr p Thr Gl y Ly s As n Tr p Val Ty r Ser
                                 165                     170                     175
              Hi s As p Gl y Val Ser Leu Hi s Gl u Leu Leu Al a Al a Gl u Leu Thr Ly s
                             180                   185                    190
              Al a Leu Ly s Thr Ly s Leu As p Leu Ser Ser Leu Al a Ty r Ser Gl y Ly s
                       195                    200                  205
              As p Al a
                   210
                                                            Page 5

