                      A GLOVE FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL OR PET WASTE
Abstract
A pet waste collection and disposal device for collecting pet waste from a foot path like surface
comprising: a glove-like member fabricated from biodegradable material, said glove-like member
having outer and inner surfaces; four fingers, a thumb, and a palm area formed as a first end of
said glove-like member; webbing between the four fingers and the thumb, whereby pet waste may
be grasped without leaking out between the fingers while dexterity of a user's fingers is maintained;
an elongated arm portion formed as a second end of said glove-like member, said elongated arm
portion having an opening therein; and ribs like protrusions formed along the thumb portion of the
glove and ribs like protrusions formed on other fingers in a crosswise manner, the ribs like
protrusions being capable of scraping any residue from a surface.

A GLOVE FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL OR PET WASTE
                /   /
              \I ~1~
                   /1/I ~
                       /
                         I
                      V
                   FIG 1

EDITORIAL NOTE
  <removed-apn>
  There are 3
   pages of
  Description

                       A GLOVE FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL OR PET WASTE
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a glove especially designed to collect and dispose of pet and animal
waste in an environmentally friendly way.
2. Description of the Related Art
It is very common to see pet waste on streets and walkways in our cities causing a health hazard
and an aesthetic problem. In some cities, it is a requirement that pet owners collect and dispose of
pet waste in an environmentally friendly way.
There are several prior art devices that assist in collecting pet waste. Among these devices are
glove-like structures as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,645,251 (Jacobs), and U.S. Pat. No. 4,768,818
(Kolic). U.S. Pat. No. 5,438,708 (Jacovitz) discloses a webbed finger glove and an oversized
collection pad attached by hook and loop fasteners, for collecting and disposing waste. The bulky
pad and webbing between the finger portions greatly restrict movement of the fingers, thumb and
hand in collecting waste. U.S. Pat. No. 5,740,670 (Surplus) teaches a glove and bag combination for
collecting waste; after use, the glove part is inverted into the bag. U.S. Pat. No. 5,961,167 (Gilley)
discloses a glove and bag combination for waste collection, including an absorbent layer. The device
permits only limited finger and hand motion for the process. U.S. Pat. No. 5,186,322 (Harreld et al)
teaches an extended-length sponge retrieval glove, used by physicians to collect and count surgical
sponges.
Mitt and bag combinations for collecting waste are known. U.S. Pat. No. 4,845,781 (Strickland et al)
discloses an invertible hand mitt for collecting contaminated materials. U.S. Pat. No. 4,902,283
(Rojko et al) teaches an invertible mitt for wiping babies, which allows the user to avoid contact with
baby waste, but does not allow manipulation of the hand and fingers to pick up waste efficiently. UK
Published Patent Application No. 2 237 973A simply discloses another bag-mitt structure for
collecting pet waste, with either a pull-tie or hook and loop closure for sealing the bag after use.
None of the above patents, addresses the issue of scraping the waste material from the ground or
walking paths. Due very flimsy nature of the plastic material used in gloves, it is not easy to scrape
the surface clean and remove all of the waste material from the surface.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention addresses this issue by introducing ribs like protrusions along and across the
fingers of the glove. A single or multiple ribs like protrusions are incorporated along the thumb
region of the glove and a single or multiple ribs like protrusions are introduced across the other
fingers. The present invention comprises a pet waste collection and disposable device in the form of

a disposable glove-like member made of thin, preferably biodegradable material (polyethylene, vinyl,
latex, polypropylene, cellophane etc.). The glove is of a length to extend substantially up a user's
forearm, and may be manufactured in many widths and lengths to fit a variety of users.
Webbing is provided between the fingers and thumb portion of the glove, for two essential
purposes: first, to prevent uncomfortable dribbling or leakage of wet waste about the fingers to the
back of the glove, and second, to still permit acceptable dexterity of the user's thumb and fingers in
collecting the waste. The webbing can extend either all the way to the end of the fingers or part
way.
A single or multiple rib protrusions are built into the thumb region of the glove in a longitudinal
direction. A single or multiple rib protrusions are built into all other fingers in a crosswise direction.
The main purpose of these rib like protrusions is to scrape all of the waste material from the surface
without leaving behind any residue waste material.
The webbing permits full dexterity in collecting the waste, yet prevents liquid waste from leaking
around the fingers and thumb of the user to the back of the hand. The glove's length improves the
user's manipulative ability when the glove is to be removed and the waste confined therein as will
be further explained below. Although, in its preferred embodiment, the instant invention is utilized
for pet waste collection and disposal, the invention could obviously be utilized for retrieval and
disposal of waste from all types of animals including livestock, wild and domestic.
After the glove is used, it may be conveniently inverted by the user so that the device now becomes
a disposal bag. Two integral ties are formed at the open end of the extended cuff of the glove,
which are then tied together to seal the glove. Then, the glove with its enclosed waste may be
disposed of in a safe and sanitary manner.
Accordingly, it is a principal object of the invention to provide a simple and efficient device for
collection and disposal of pet waste.
It is another object of the invention to provide a device for retrieving pet waste wherein a user's
hand is protected from direct contact with the pet waste.
Still another object of the invention is to provide a device for collecting pet waste including a glove
like structure with webbing between the fingers and thumb, which allows full use of the fingers and
hands to pick up the waste, while preventing the waste from leaking around and onto the back of
the hand and fingers of the user.
It is a further object of the invention to provide a device for retrieving pet waste wherein the device
is able to scrape all of the waste material from the surface or ground without leaving any residual
materilal on the ground or the surface from which the waste is removed.
Still another object of the invention is to provide a device for retrieving pet waste wherein the device
also functions as a disposal bag.
These and other objects of the present invention will become readily apparent upon further review
of the following specification and drawings.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1 is a perspective and elevation view of a pet waste collection and disposal glove according to
the present invention looking from back.
FIG. 2 is a perspective and elevation view of the pet waste collection and disposal glove looking
from the front.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
As illustrated in FIG 1 and 2, the present invention comprises a pet waste collection and disposal
glove provided with four fingers and thumb. As stated earlier, the glove is fabricated from thin,
biodegradable material so that it will conform to the disposal standards that may exist in most
jurisdictions.
A feature of the invention is the provision of webbing between the fingers and thumb of the glove.
Webbing allows the user to manipulate his or her fingers with full dexterity in collecting the pet
waste. This webbing can extend all the way to the end of the fingers or stop part way. The purpose
of the webbing is to prevent any semi liquid waste material escaping around the user's fingers and
onto the back of the glove.
Another key feature of this invention is the presence of rib like protrusions on the thumb and other
fingers. As shown in fig 2, these ribs like protrusions are placed longitudinally along the thumb
portion of the glove and cross wise on all other fingers. The cross wise rib like protrusions are
placed towards the top of each finger. While only one rib like protrusion is shown in Fig 2 on each
finger and thumb, according to this invention, several ribs like protrusions can be incorporated into
each of the fingers and the thumb. The distance between each rib like protrusion can be around
5mm to 10 mm. The purpose of the ribs like protrusions is to scrape all of the waste material from
the surface without leaving any residue.
As best seen in FIG 1 and 2, the glove is elongated so as to extend approximately midway the
forearm of a user. In addition to providing protection for the user's arm, the extra length makes
manipulation easier when removing the glove. A pair of ties is provided at the end of glove. These
ties are structured and function much in the same way as ties formed on trash bags. After the glove
is used, it may be conveniently inverted by the user so that the device now becomes a disposal bag.
Two integral ties are formed at the open end of the extended cuff of the glove, which are then tied
together to seal the glove. Then, the glove with its enclosed waste may be disposed of in a safe and
sanitary manner.
The glove can be made of any flexible material such as polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC,
Polyethylene terephthalate or any other suitable plastic material including bio degradable plastics.

                       A GLOVE FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL OR PET WASTE
The claim defining the invention are:
1. A pet waste collection and disposal device for collecting pet waste from a foot path like surface
comprising: a glove-like member fabricated from biodegradable material, said glove-like member
having outer and inner surfaces; four fingers, a thumb, and a palm area formed as a first end of
said glove-like member; webbing between the four fingers and the thumb, whereby pet waste may
be grasped without leaking out between the fingers while dexterity of a user's fingers is maintained;
an elongated arm portion formed as a second end of said glove-like member, said elongated arm
portion having an opening therein; and ribs like protrusions formed along the thumb portion of the
glove and ribs like protrusions formed on other fingers in a crosswise manner, the ribs like
protrusions being capable of scraping any residue from a surface.
2. The pet waste collection and disposal device as defined in claim 1, wherein said glove-like
member extends to about hallway of the users' arm and has an opening to insert the fingers.
3. The pet waste collection and disposal device as defined in claim 2, wherein integral tie members
are formed on said elongated arm portion at said opening.
4. The pet waste collection and disposal device as claimed in claim 3 that has a multiple of ribs like
protrusions positioned along the thumb portion and a number of rib like protrusions positioned on
other fingers in a crosswise manner across all other fingers.
5. The pet waste collection and disposal device as claimed in claim 4, where the distance between
multiple ribs is about 5 mm to 10 mm.
6. The pet waste collection device as claimed in claim 1 and with reference to figures 1 and 2.
7. The pet waste collection device as claimed in any of the above claims, where the device is made
of any flexible material such as polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC, Polyethylene terephthalate or any
other suitable plastic material including bio degradable plastics.

              A GLOVE FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL OR PET WASTE
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                FIG 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
