Abstract
The invention provides a child safety seat for a vehicle wherein in use a
child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle seat belt having a
sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap portion passing
over the lap of the child. The child safety seat includes a base to be
supported on a seat of a vehicle, a backrest, a headrest and a stem
connecting the headrest to the backrest.
The stem is adapted to provide a path for moving the headrest between a
first position and a second position with respect to the backrest. The
headrest includes means for adjusting the sash portion in relation to the
child's shoulder and guiding the headrest with respect to the path.

    /0
g34

27560
                       Lightweight Booster with Adjustable Headrest
       FIELD OF INVENTION
       This invention relates to child restraint for a vehicle, and in particular, to a
       booster seat having an adjustable headrest.
     5 BACKGROUND ART
       There exist a variety of types of child safety seats that are approved for use with
       children of a variety of ages and/or sizes. Type A seats typically refer to rear
       facing seats or capsules suitable for accommodating babies/infants up to around
       6 months of age and/or 70 cm in length and up to 12 kg. Type B seats typically
    10 refer to forward facing seats used to accommodate toddlers and young children
       from approximately 6 months to 4 years, or from 8 - 18 kg. Type E seats
       typically refer to booster seats and booster cushions used to accommodate
       children between 4 - 8 years old, or approximately from 14 - 32 kg, and which
       are typically used in combination with the vehicle seat belt. Some seats may be
    15 a combination type A/B or B/E to accommodate a child as the child grows
       thereby avoiding the need to purchase, or otherwise source, a variety of different
       seats to accommodate a growing child.
       Type E or booster seats are typically designed for a child who has outgrown a
       Type B child safety seat but who is too small to safely use a vehicle seat belt
    20 alone. Booster seats are typically used until the child is sufficiently tall that the
       child's eyes are level with the top of the vehicle back seat. Until such a time as
       the child's eyes become level with the top of the back seat, the child is seated on
       a booster seat to provide sufficient elevation for safe use of the vehicle seat belt.
       Type E seats typically take a variety of forms. Early designs of such booster
    25 seats include cushions or pedestals configured to be placed upon the surface of
       the vehicle seat for the child to sit upon, to elevate the child to a desired height
       suitable for using the vehicle seat belt. The vehicle seat belt is then employed to
       restrain the child in position upon the booster seat, with the lap belt portion of
       the vehicle seat belt extending across the child's lap and the sash belt portion of
    30 the vehicle seat belt extending across the child's chest. Whilst such cushions or
       pedestals have proven effective in elevating the child above the surface of the
       seat, they offer little protection to the child in terms of back support and side
       impact protection.
       Booster seats having a shell and backrest have been developed to provide back

   support to the child. Such booster seats typically have side wings which extend
   laterally about the child for side impact protection. The vehicle seat belt is fitted
   about the seat to restrain both the child and the seat in position on the vehicle
   seat. These booster seats have traditionally been made from a lightweight
 5 plastic material, such as polystyrene.         However, such seats made from
   polystyrene or similar material have a tendency to split or break-up under forces
   associated with a vehicle accident or the like, significantly compromising the
   safety of the child restrained therein. Typically, the region between the base of
   the seat and the backrest of the seat becomes split in such seats.
10 In order to increase the strength of booster seats, sturdier and heavier materials
   have been employed, such as dense injection-moulded plastics. However,
   increasing the weight of the booster seat has also created safety problems.
   Heavier booster seats experience greater momentum of force during an accident,
   which, when combined with the weight of the child seated therein, can result in
15 greater forces being exerted by the child against the vehicle seat belt. Such
   increased forces can cause significant damage to the internal organs of the child
   and in some instances, may be fatal.
   In Australia regulations have been put in place to ensure that all booster seats
   over 2 Kg in weight are tethered in position on the vehicle seat. Whilst tethering
20 has proven effective in improving the safety of the child and restraining
   movement of the booster seat on the surface of the vehicle seat, a tethered
   booster seat significantly reduces the useability and portable nature of the
   booster seat. In order to remove or reposition the seat, it is necessary to
   disengage the tether from the vehicle anchorage point which can be an onerous
25 and awkward task, especially in limited space as is often the case with vehicles.
   Further, as tethered booster seats are traditionally rigid and bulky in shape and
   form, they are typically not readily able to be stored in a position that is out of
   the way, such as the trunk or boot of the vehicle when not in use.
   Solutions to these problems are the subject Australian patents and patent
30 applications 2011200851, 2015200846 and <removed-apn>, the contents of each of
   which are incorporated herein by reference.
   While the solutions referred to in the preceding paragraph work well, there is a
   need to provide a Type E or booster seat arrangement that has the advantages
   of a lightweight, optionally foldable, booster seat but which at the same time has
35 an adjustable headrest for accommodating children of different heights or which
   can grow as the child does.

   It is desirable that a lightweight booster seat has a weight of less than 2 Kg,
   because such a seat does not need a top tether. However, it is not an easy task
   to produce such a lightweight booster seat while still having sufficient strength
   and impact protection to pass mandatory testing, especially side impact testing.
 5 It is also important that a lightweight booster seat has sufficient strength to meet
   the requirements of the Australian Standard for rear impact testing: the backrest
   must be strong enough to overcome a backwards bending moment in rear
   impact testing.
    It is even more difficult to design such a lightweight booster seat which has an
10 adjustable headrest while still confining the weight of the seat to less than 2 Kg.
   When a child safety seat has an adjustable headrest, there arises a need to be
   able to also adjust the way in which the sash part of the vehicle seat belt
   engages with the child. There are prior art sash guides which can help the sash
   part of the vehicle seatbelt to pass over the child's shoulder without cutting into
15 the child's neck.
   It has now been found that it is possible to provide means on the adjustable
   headrest which can act as a sash guide as well as guiding the headrest during
   adjustment.
   The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
20 intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of
   common general knowledge in the art. In particular, the above prior art
   discussion does not relate to what is commonly or well known by the person
   skilled in the art, but assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the
   present invention, of which the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is
25 but one part.
   STATEMENT OF INVENTION
   Accordingly, in a first aspect, the invention provides a child safety seat for a
   vehicle wherein in use a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle
   seat belt having a sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap
30 portion passing over the lap of the child, the child safety seat including:
           a base configured to be supported on a seat of a vehicle;
           a backrest;

          a headrest; and
          a stem connecting the headrest to the backrest;
          wherein the stem is adapted to provide a path for moving the headrest
          between a first position and a second position with respect to the
 5        backrest;
          and wherein the headrest includes means for both adjusting the sash
          portion in relation to the child's shoulder and guiding the headrest with
          respect to the path.
   The invention also provides an adjustable headrest for a child safety seat for a
10 vehicle, wherein in use a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle
   seat belt having a sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap
   portion passing over the lap of the child, wherein the headrest includes means
   for both adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and guiding
   the headrest with respect to a path for moving the headrest between a first
15 position and a second position with respect to a backrest of the child safety seat.
   The child safety seat and headrest of the invention may be made of any suitable
   material or mixture of materials. The child safety seat and headrest may be
   partly or wholly injection moulded and/or blow moulded. However, in a preferred
   embodiment the child safety seat is a lightweight seat of less than 2 Kg and thus
20 does not require a top tether in jurisdictions such as Australia.
   The child safety seat of the invention may have the base fixed in relation to the
   backrest, or it may be foldable for storage. If the seat is foldable, the angle of
   the backrest to the base may be adjustable and may be lockable in place by any
   suitable means.
25 In Australian patent application 2011200851, the contents of which have been
   incorporated herein by reference, there is disclosed a foldable, lightweight seat
   which may be adapted for use in the present invention. An embodiment is
   described below in connection with the drawings.
   The backrest may be pivotally attached to the base at a location which is above
30 the seating surface of the child safety seat. The purpose of this is to reduce the
   height of the backrest and create a smaller package when the backrest is folded
   towards the base, reducing storage needs and shipping costs.
   Regardless of whether the child safety seat is foldable, if desired, the backrest
                                              A

   may have a main part which is reduced in height. In order to ensure that the
   child's torso is adequately protected in a side impact situation, each torso side
   wing may have a portion which is higher in use than the backrest. When the
   headrest is in a low position, the higher portion on the torso side wing may
 5 overlap with the headrest, providing even more strength to the child safety seat.
   The child safety seat on the invention may be provided with one or more (usually
   two) cup holders, preferably located on the base. It is particularly preferred that,
   in order to have the footprint of the base as narrow as possible, any cup holder
   is at least partially formed in a side of the base. In this embodiment, the cup
10 holder may have a cross-sectional profile approximating two/thirds of the
   diameter of a typical can or bottle, the remaining one third of the diameter being
   left open. If desired, an elastic strap or similar retaining means may close off the
   open part of the cup holder diameter. An example is shown below in connection
   with the drawings.
15 In the seat of the present invention, the stem may be fixed to the headrest and
   slidable on the backrest. As an alternative, the stem may be fixed to the backrest
   and the headrest slidable on the stem.
   It is preferred that first support means such as tracks or struts are provided in
   the stem, as well as in the backrest and/or the headrest, the first support means
20 providing both the facility for the headrest to slide along a path in relation to the
   backrest and strength for the stem, backrest and/or headrest. Preferably, each
   of the backrest and the stem has a plurality of tracks which also act as struts for
   strength. It is further preferred that the headrest has a plurality of second
   support means such as rails or similar means to enable the headrest to slide on
25 tracks in the stem. The rails may also act as struts for strength.
   Tracks or struts on the stem and/or the backrest can provide the strength
   needed to overcome a backwards bending moment when the seat is tested for
   rear impact under the Standard.
   Preferably, the headrest can be adjusted at a plurality of positions between the
30 first position and the second position. For this purpose, the stem may have a
   plurality of nodules or protrusions designed to coordinate with recesses in the
   headrest. Other configurations are also possible.
   One such other configuration may take the form of a push button locator on the
   headrest which can lock the headrest in relation to the stem, preferably in
35 multiple positions. In this embodiment, the push button may include a biasing

   means, such as a spring, which is biased outwardly, away from the stem.
   The means for adjusting the sash portion of the vehicle seat belt relation to the
   child's shoulder and guiding the headrest with respect to a path for moving the
   headrest between a first position and a second position with respect to a
 5 backrest of the child safety seat may take any suitable form.
   In one preferred embodiment, the adjusting means includes a 'J' shaped
   element, the sash guide being located at the base of the 'J' and the shank of the
   'J' having a projection for engaging the first support means, when present.
   The 'J' shaped element can further lock the headrest against the stem while still
10 allowing movement of the headrest from the first position to the second position.
   Other methods of locking can also be used. Some are described below. The
   means included on the headrest can provide a simple but effective method to
   lock the headrest to the stem while permitting controlled movement of the
   headrest on the stem.
15 In another embodiment, the adjusting means has a sash guide at each end of a
   horizontal bar, which optionally has a central tongue for locking the headrest into
   position.
   In yet a further embodiment, the sash guide is located partway along a bar
   which is vertical in use.
20 In a second aspect, the invention provides a child safety seat for a vehicle
   wherein in use a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle seat
   belt having a sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap portion
   passing over the lap of the child, the child safety seat including:
          a base configured to be supported on a seat of a vehicle;
25        a backrest;
          a headrest; and
          a stem connecting the headrest to the backrest;
          wherein the stem is adapted to provide a path for moving the headrest
          between a first position and a second position with respect to the
30        backrest;
   and wherein the headrest includes:

           -   means for guiding the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder
              and
           -  means for guiding the headrest with respect to the path, such mean
              being substantially perpendicular to the path.
 5 Preferably, the child safety seat includes means for locking or fixing the headrest
   to the stem in a chosen position, while allowing adjustment of the headrest
   height when desired.
   In one preferred embodiment, the headrest has an inner surface which in use is
   adjacent to the child's head and an outer surface which is use is adjacent to the
10 vehicle seat back. The outer surface has at least one locating means. The
   locating mean may be integrally formed on the headrest or in one or more
   separate parts, secured to the headrest. The locating means allows the headrest
   to be locked or fixed in relation to the stem in each desired position and may also
   provide a support function to the headrest.
15 It is preferred that the locating means is generally horizontal in use in relation to
   the headrest, being perpendicular to the path.
   If desired, the locating means may be part of a structure that extends across the
   headrest to a substantial extent. It may be beneficial for the structure to extend
   at least partly into headrest side wings.
20 In one embodiment, the locating means forms an aperture to allow the headrest
   to movably locate with regard to the stem from the first position to the second or
   further positions.
   In one embodiment, a first locating means is positioned at a lower portion of the
   headrest and a second locating means is positioned in a higher portion of the
25 headrest. Preferably, the higher portion is about midway between a lower edge
   of the headrest and an upper edge of the headrest.
   When the headrest is in its lowest position on the stem, an upper edge of the
   stem may be adjacent to the upper edge of the headrest.
   In this embodiment, the sash adjusting means may be part of the locating
30 means or the sash adjusting means may be separate from the locating means.
   The invention also provides an adjustable headrest for a child safety seat for a
   vehicle, wherein in use a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle

   seat belt having a sash portion      passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap
   portion passing over the lap of     the child, wherein the headrest includes means
   for adjusting the sash portion      in relation to the child's shoulder and locating
   means for guiding the headrest      with respect to a path for moving the headrest
 5 between a first position and a second position with respect to a backrest of the
   child safety seat.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting
   description of preferred embodiments of the child safety seat and headrest of the
10 invention, in which:
          Figure 1 is a front perspective view of a Type E child safety seat in
          accordance with an embodiment of the first aspect of the present
          invention, with the adjustable headrest in the second position;
          Figure 2 shows the same view as in Figure 1, except that the adjustable
15        headrest is in the first extended position;
          Figure 3 is a rear elevation of the seat shown in Figure 2;
          Figure 4 shows a rear elevation as in Figure 3, but with the headrest
          removed;
          Figure 5 shows separately a rear elevation of an embodiment of the
20        headrest of the invention and an embodiment of the means for adjusting
          the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for guiding the
          headrest with respect to a path for moving the headrest between a first
          position and a second position with respect to a backrest of the child
          safety seat.
25        Figure 5A shows an end view of the means, viewed in the direction of
          arrow 5 in Figure 5;
          Figure 6 shows the seat of Figure 1 in a folded positon;
          Figure 7 is a rear elevation of a second embodiment of the seat of the first
          aspect of the present invention, with the headrest in the second position;
30        Figure 8 is a rear elevation of the seat of Figure 8, but with the headrest in
          the first position;

   Figure 9 shows a rear elevation as in Figures 7 and 8, but with the
   headrest removed;
   Figure 10 shows separately a rear elevation of a second embodiment of
   the headrest of the invention and an embodiment of the means for
 5 adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for
   guiding the headrest with respect to a path for moving the headrest
   between a first position and a second position with respect to a backrest of
   the child safety seat;
   Figure 11 is a rear elevation of a third embodiment of the seat of the first
10 aspect of the present invention, with the headrest in the first position;
   Figure 12 shows separately a rear elevation of a third embodiment of the
   headrest of the invention and an embodiment of a pair of the means for
   adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for
   guiding the headrest with respect to a path for moving the headrest
15 between a first position and a second position with respect to a backrest of
   the child safety seat. The means is shown in front, rear and side
   elevations;
   Figure 12A shows an enlarged perspective view from the front of the
   means included in Figure 12, namely the means on the right in Figure 12;
20 Figure 13 is a rear elevation of a fourth embodiment of the seat of the first
   aspect of the present invention, with the headrest in the second position;
   Figure 14 is a rear elevation of the seat of Figure 13, but with the headrest
   in the first position;
   Figure 15 is a front perspective view of an embodiment of a Type E child
25 safety seat according to the second aspect of the present invention, with
   the adjustable headrest in the first extended position;
   Figure 16 shows a rear elevation of the seat of Figure 15;
   Figure 17 is a rear elevation of the seat of Figures 15 and 16, with the
   adjustable headrest in the second position; and
30 Figure 18 is a perspective view from below of a variation of the headrest of
   Figures 15 to 17.

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
   reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is to be understood that
   the features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawings are not to
 5 be construed as limiting on the scope of the invention.
   The present invention will be described below in relation to Type-E child safety
   seats or booster seats for use in a vehicle in a forward facing manner.
   Referring to Figures 1 to 6, a child safety seat being a booster seat 10 in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is shown. The booster
10 seat 10 is configured to be supported on a rear seat of a vehicle in a
   conventional manner, however, it will be appreciated that the booster seat 10
   may be supported on a front seat or any other vehicle seating arrangement, as
   desired by a user.
   The booster seat 10 has a base 12 that is shaped to be positioned on a surface of
15 the vehicle seat. The under surface 14 of the base 12 is substantially level or
   shaped to conform with an upper surface of the vehicle seat such that the
   booster seat 10 is substantially stable when positioned on the vehicle seat for
   use. Base 12 may be padded for comfort.
   The base 12 has a pair of armrests 16 located on opposing sides of the base 12
20 to receive the arms of the child so as to provide additional comfort to the child.
   The armrests 16 are formed such that there is a gap 18 provided between the
   armrests 16 and the seating surface 20 of the base 12. Such a gap 18 can
   receive the vehicle seat belt (not shown) as it passes over the lap of the child, to
   assist in positioning the lap portion of the seat belt with respect to the child.
25 In this embodiment, armrests 16 are fixed in position. In another embodiment,
   armrests 16 may be movable from the position shown in Figures 1 and 2 to a
   second position, where the armrests 16 are pivoted upwardly through about 90
   degrees, to assist when placing the child in the seat 10. In yet another
   embodiment, no armrests are present.
30 A backrest 22 is connected to the base 12 to extend substantially perpendicularly
   from the base 12 when in use. The backrest 22 has back portion 24 against
   which a back of the child is received and supported when the child is seated. A
   pair of side wings 26 is also provided to extend laterally along the sides or flanks
   of the backrest 22 in the manner shown, to provide added side impact protection

   to the child. The backrest 22 may be padded or otherwise configured to provide
   comfort and support to the child.
   The backrest 22 is pivotally connected to the base 12 at a lower portion thereof.
   The manner in which the pivotal connection is provided may vary. In the manner
 5 as shown in the embodiment of Figures 1 to 4 and 6, the pivotal connection is in
   the form of two male members 28, one of each projecting laterally from a lower
   region of the backrest 22. Each male member 28 is configured to be received in
   a female member or hole 32 (see Figure 6) formed in each of armrests 16. .
   Such an arrangement forms a pair of pivot points on opposing sides of the
10 backrest 22 that enables the angular position of the backrest 22 to be adjusted
   with respect to the base 12.
   As an alternate arrangement a male member in the form of a single elongate
   shaft or rod may extend through a lower region of the backrest 22 to project
   from the opposing sides thereof, to be received in a female member such as
15 hole 32 (see Figure 6) formed in each of armrests 16
   In yet another form, a recess may be provided in opposing sides of the lower
   region of the backrest 22 to receive a corresponding projecting member, such as
   a rod or shaft that projects from the inner surfaces of the armrests 16, to define
   pivot points.
20 The base 12 is made from a high density plastic material, such as polyethylene,
   through an injection moulding or blow moulding process. As the base 12
   receives the vehicle seat belt when the child is positioned thereon, it experiences
   most of the direct forces applied by the vehicle seat belt in the event of a vehicle
   accident. Hence, by forming the base 12 from materials having increased
25 strength properties, the seat is able to withstand a wide range of forces that may
   be applied by the vehicle seat belt during use.
   The base 12 may alternatively be made from a moulded plastic shell or plastic
   surround, one or more polystyrene inserts forming the seating surface.
   Backrest 22 may also be made from a high density plastic material, such as
30 polyethylene, by injection mounding or blow moulding. The material of backrest
   22 may be lighter or thinner than that of base 12. As best seen in Figure 3,
   backrest 22 contains apertures 34, 36, 37 and 38 to reduce weight of backrest
   22. At the same time, tracks 40 (see Figures 3 and 4) are formed on the rear of
   backrest 22 to add strength to backrest 22.
                                            A1A

   Each of tracks 40 may be made of any suitable material or mixture of materials,
   preferably lightweight material such a plastic.
   Horizontal bar 29 adds further strength to backrest 22.
   In this embodiment, stem 30 is formed with backrest 22. As shown in Figure 4,
 5 tracks 40 continue from backrest 22 into stem 30, to add strength to stem 30.
   Stem 30 has apertures 42 to reduce weight.
   Stem 30 also has braces 44 between tracks 40 to give stem 30 additional
   strength.
   Stem 30 includes nodules 45 (only two are labelled). These assist in locating and
10 securing headrest 50 on stem 30. Headrest 50 has internal recesses (not
   shown). Each recess is adapted to receive a nodule 45 to enable a user to 'feel'
   that headrest 50 is correctly located for the desired position on stem 30. To
   release headrest 50, sufficient force is applied to move nodules 45 from the
   recesses.
15 As shown in Figures 1 and 2, headrest 50 has side wings 46 to protect the head
   of the child during side impact. Each of side wings 46 has an insert of
   polystyrene for energy attenuation. The polystyrene is made lighter by recesses
   48 (only one is labelled).
   Headrest 50 has a lip 47 which adds further strength to headrest 50.
20 As shown in Figure 5, headrest 50 includes as second support means rails 52
   which fit onto or align with tracks 40 (first support means) on stem 30, so that
   headrest 50 can slide on stem 30 along a path between the lower unextended
   position of Figure 1 and the upper extended position of Figure 2. Rails 52 also
   add strength to headrest 50.
25 Headrest 50 has apertures 54 between rails 52 and a hand hole 56 to assist in
   sliding headrest 50.
   Also seen in Figure 5 is means 60, for adjusting the sash portion of a vehicle seat
   belt in relation to the child's shoulder and for guiding headrest 50 along a path
   towards or away from backrest 22. Means 60 also functions to secure the
30 headrest 50 to the stem 30, whilst still allowing headrest 50 to be movable on
   the stem.
   Means 60 is made of plastic or metal and resembles the letter 'J'. At the base of

   means 60 there is a flat support 62 for the sash portion of a seat belt (not
   shown) and a curved end 64 to retain the sash portion on flat support 62 in use.
   The remainder of means 60 is shank 66 which has three apertures 68 (only one
   is labelled). There are corresponding apertures 72 on headrest 50 (only one is
 5 labelled).Means 60 is attached to headrest 50 via bolts or the like through
   apertures 68 and 72.
   As shown in Figure 5A, shank 66 has a projection 69 which runs the length of
   shank 66 to receive one of tracks 40 of stem 30. Projection 68 ensures that
   headrest 50 follows the path dictated by track 40.
10 Each side wing 46 of headrest 50 has a cut-out 58 to accommodate the sash
   portion of a vehicle seat belt and to coordinate with flat support 62 and curved
   end 64 of means 60.
   Preferably, two means 60 are provided as illustrated so that seat 10 may be
   used in any position in the vehicle and to guide headrest 50 on stem 30.
15 As it is law in Australia to ensure that all booster seats over 2 Kg are tethered in
   position on the vehicle seat, the booster seat 10 of the present invention can be
   configured to have the same or similar strength properties as tethered booster
   seats without the need for tethering, by reducing the overall weight of the seat.
   Alternatively, the regions of the seat that experience higher load forces in use,
20 may be constructed to provide increased strength in such regions, whereas,
   regions of the seat that do not experience high load forces in use may be
   constructed of lighter weight material, thus optimising the weight of the seat.
   In this regard, the booster seat 10 can be easily repositioned or removed from
   the vehicle without the need for disconnecting and reconnecting tether
25 arrangements. As is shown in Figure 6, the booster seat 10 can be easily folded
   such that the backrest 22 can be positioned to extend substantially parallel to the
   base 12. Headrest 50 has been moved to its lowest position to reduce bulk of
   booster seat 10. This significantly reduces the size of the seat 10 to enable it to
   be stored in a storage or luggage compartment of the vehicle, or elsewhere, as
30 desired. The folded configuration with low headrest also reduces packaging size
   and reduces transport costs.
   In the embodiments below, the same labels will be used for features which are
   the same as those in the first embodiment.
   In the second embodiment in Figures 7 to 10, backrest 22 is substantially the

   same as in the previous embodiment and will not be described again, except in
   relation to differences.
   In seat 110 in Figures 7 to 10, headrest 150 is the same as headrest 50 in the
   first embodiment, except that headrest 150 does not have apertures 54 and
 5 headrest 150 has a horizontal strut 71.
   As shown in Figure 10, means 160 has a sash guide 70 at each end of horizontal
   bar 82, which has a central tongue 84 for locking the headrest into position on
   stem 30. It will be noted that stem 30 omits nodules 45 from the first
   embodiment. Instead, headrest 150 is locked in position when tongue 84 is
10 inserted into the appropriate aperture 86 (see Figure 8) in track 40 of stem 30.
   Tongue 84 has a locating pin (not shown) in its reverse side, for locating in a
   chosen aperture 86. Only some of apertures 86 are labelled.
   Means 160 may be moulded plastic, metal, a combination of metal and plastic, or
   anything else suitable.
15 Means 160 is made so that it has sufficient strength to hold the sash part of the
   vehicle seat belt during use, including in an accident situation. It also provides
   strength across headrest 150. It may be designed to impart strength to side
   wings 46, of benefit during a side impact event.
   Although tongue 84 is shown as centrally located on bar 82, in another
20 embodiment there may be two such tongues, with apertures in the outer tracks
   40. Other configurations are possible.
   Means 160 is attached to headrest 150 through bolts or rivets or other suitable
   attachment, using apertures 90 and 92.
   Means 160 ensure that headrest 150 is guided along the path represented by
25 tracks 40 as headrest 150 is moved from the first to the second positions.
   Horizontal strut 71 assists in the guiding function while at the same time
   strengthening headrest 150, especially imparting strength to side wings 46 in a
   side impact. Horizontal strut 71 may be part of the moulding of headrest 150, or
   a separate part attached to headrest 150. Horizontal strut 71 may include
30 strengthening pins 73.
   As best seen in Figure 10, means 160 may have recesses 85 to enhance the
   guiding action along tracks 40 during movement of headrest 150. Horizontal
   strut 71 may also have such recesses, although these are not shown in the
   drawings.

   Turning now to the third embodiment in Figures 11 and 12, in seat 210 backrest
   22 is substantially the same as in the first embodiment and will not be described
   again, except in relation to differences. It will be noted that backrest 22 in
   Figures 11 and 12 does not have apertures 34, 36 and 37. Braces 44 between
 5 tracks 40, which give stem 30 additional strength, are continued into backrest
   22.
   In seat 210 in Figures 11 and 12, headrest 250 is similar to headrest 50 in the
   first embodiment, except that headrest 150 does not have apertures 54 or hand
   hole 56.
10 Headrest 250 retains side wings 46 of headrest 50, to protect the head of the
   child during side impact, and lip 47 to add further strength to headrest 250.
   Each of side wings 46 may be made lighter by recesses such as 48, shown in
   relation to the first embodiment.
   Headrest 250 may also include energy absorbing polystyrene pads on each of
15 side wings 46. In this embodiment, a polystyrene pad 87 is located on each side
   wing 46 of headrest 150, opposite to the side which would be contacted by the
   child's head.
   As shown in Figure 11, headrest 250 includes as second support means rails 52
   which fit onto or align with tracks 40 (first support means) on stem 30, so that
20 headrest 250 can slide on stem 30 along a path between a lower unextended
   position, where headrest 250 has been pushed down on stem 30 to the
   maximum extent, and an extended position as shown in Figure 11. Rails 52 also
   add strength to headrest 250.
   Also seen in Figure 11 is means 260, for adjusting the sash portion of a vehicle
25 seat belt in relation to the child's shoulder and for guiding headrest 250 along a
   path towards or away from backrest 22. Means 260 secures headrest 250 in
   relation to stem 30 whilst still allowing movement from the first position to the
   second position.
   Means 260 is made of plastic or metal and resembles the letter 'J', similarly to
30 means 60 in the first embodiment.
   Referring to Figure 12, at the base of means 260 there is a flat support 62 for
   the sash portion of a seat belt (not shown) and a curved end 64 to retain the
   sash portion on flat support 62 in use. The remainder of means 260 is shank 266
   which has three pins 88 with expanded heads, to engage in keyhole apertures
                                             A e

   272 on headrest 250. Means 260 is also attached to headrest 250 via rivets or
   the like through apertures 90 and 92.
   Shank 266 is sufficiently broad to receive one of tracks 40 of stem 30, to ensure
   that headrest 250 follows the path dictated by track 40.
 5 As shown in Figure 12A, shank 266 has a recess 169 which runs the length of
   shank 266 to receive one of tracks 40 of stem 30. Recess 169 allows headrest
   250 to slide on stem 30 when headrest 250 is being adjusted in height.
   Each side wing 46 of headrest 250 has a cut-out 58 to accommodate the sash
   portion of a vehicle seat belt and to coordinate with flat support 62 and curved
10 end 64 of means 260.
   Preferably, two means 260 are provided as illustrated so that seat 210 may be
   used in any position in the vehicle and to guide headrest 250 on stem 30.
   Optionally, stem 30 may include a locking mechanism 94 (Figure 11) and 96
   (Figure 12) to lock headrest 250 to stem 30 in a chosen position. While locking
15 mechanism 94 and 96 may take any suitable form, in the embodiment in these
   Figures each of projections 96 is adapted to be received in recess 94 when
   headrest 250 is in the chosen position. Only two of projections 96 are labelled in
   Figure 12.
   In an alternate embodiment, there may be a single projection 94 and multiple
20 recesses or apertures 96.
   In the next embodiment, shown in Figures 13 and 14, seat 310 has a headrest
   350 similar to the previous headrests and a backrest 22. This embodiment has
   yet a different embodiment of means 360, which has an extended lower section
   98 to further enhance support for stem 230 (Figure 14). Otherwise, the upper
25 section of means 360 operates as described in relation to the first embodiment
   for means 60.
   Means 360 is attached to headrest 350 as in the first embodiment and may be
   made of any suitable material, including plastic, metal or a combination of these.
   Each of lower sections 98, being attached to headrest 350 via means 360, moves
30 in relation to backrest 22 as headrest 350 is raised or lowered. Cross-supports
   100 and 102 provide guides for lower sections 98. In this embodiment, cross
   support 100 extends substantially the width of backrest 22. Each of cross
   supports 100 and 102 may be formed integrally with the moulding of backrest

   22.
   Headrest 350 includes as second support means rails 52 which fit onto or align
   with tracks 40 (first support means) on stem 230, so that headrest 350 can slide
   on stem 230 along a path between the first (unextended) position of Figure 13
 5 and the second (extended) position of Figure 14. Rails 52 also add strength to
   headrest 350.
   If desired, headrest 350 may be securable in a chosen position by a suitable
   method, such as those described in relation to the first embodiment (nodules and
   recesses) or the embodiment in Figures 11 and 12.
10 Referring now to the embodiment in Figures 15 to 17, seat 410 has a headrest
   450 somewhat similar to the headrest of the first embodiment, with side wings
   446 to protect the head of the child during side impact. Each of side wings 446
   has an insert of polystyrene that is made lighter by recesses 448 formed on its
   inside surface (only one is labelled). In another embodiment, recesses 448 may
15 be replaced by apertures which penetrate through to the outside surface of side
   wings 446.
   Backrest 422 is connected to base 412 to extend substantially perpendicularly
   from base 412 when in use.        A pair of side wings 426 is provided to extend
   laterally along the sides or flanks of backrest 422 in the manner shown, to
20 provide added side impact protection to the child. Backrest 422 may be padded
   or otherwise configured to provide comfort and support to the child.
   In this embodiment, each of side wings 426 has a portion 427 which is higher
   than backrest 422. Portions 427 can assist in protecting the child's torso in a
   side impact situation. As can be seen in Figure 17, portions 427 overlap with
25 headrest 450 when headrest 450 is in a low position, providing even more
   strength to child safety seat 410.
   In this embodiment, in contrast to that of Figures 1 to 6, backrest 422 is pivotally
   attached to base 412 at pivot points 428, the location of which is further above
   seating surface 420 than in Figure 1. The purpose of this is to reduce the height
30 of backrest 422 and create a smaller package when backrest 422 is folded
   towards base 412, reducing storage needs and shipping costs.
   The pivot mechanism 428 may be integrally formed as a part of backrest 422
   that locates and locks in apertures on base. 412 This is a simple and cost
   effective way of securing backrest 422 to base 412.

   Armrests 416 are differently configured compared to armrests 16 in Figure 1,
   because of the extra height of pivot points 428. Aperture 429 is between
   backrest 422 and base 412.
   Base 412 has a cup holder 482 formed in it. Cup holder 482 has a cross-sectional
 5 profile approximating two/thirds of the diameter of a typical can or bottle. The
   remaining one third of the diameter is left open, except that elastic strap 484
   acts as a retaining means to close off cup holder 482. Strap 484 has sufficient
   elasticity to expand to accommodate a can or bottle.
   A second cup holder may be located on the opposite side of base 412.
10 Headrest 450 has a lip 447 which adds further strength to headrest 450.
   Headrest 450 my include energy absorbing polystyrene pads on each of side
   wings 446. Recesses 448 may also provide energy attenuation in the event of
   side impact.
   In this embodiment, the means for adjusting the sash portion of a seat belt in
15 relation to the child's shoulders forms part of headrest 450 and has flat support
   462 for the sash portion of a seat belt (not shown) and a curved end 464 to
   retain the sash portion on flat support 462 in use.
   As shown in Figure 16, headrest 450 includes as second support means rails 452
   which fit onto or align with tracks 440 (first support means) on stem 430, so that
20 headrest 450 can slide on stem 430 along a path between the lower unextended
   position of Figure 17 and the upper extended position of Figure 16. Rails 452 also
   add strength to headrest 450.
   Figures 16 and 17 show two parallel locating means 470 for guiding headrest 450
   with respect to the path along stem 430.           Each of locating means 470 is
25 perpendicular to stem 430, extends across the width of headrest 450 and wraps
   around into side wings 446 (Figure 15).
   Each locating means 470 has an aperture at 472 through which stem 430 is
   received. In Figure 16, top edge 474 of stem 430 is level with upper locating
   means 470. In Figure 17, top edge 474 of stem 430 is level with top edge 476 of
30 headrest 450. As would be understood, locating means 470 secures headrest
   450 in relation to stem 430 whilst allowing movement from the first position to
   the second position.
   To adjust the height of headrest 450, push button 478 on upper locating means

   470 can be pressed to locate a bolt (not visible) in one of the apertures 480 of
   stem 430, and headrest 450 moved by sliding so that the bolt is moved to the
   adjacent narrow portion, in order to lock headrest 450 in relation to stem 430.
   Push button 478 is biased away from stem 30 by a spring (not shown).
 5 Headrest 550 in Figure 18 omits push button 478 and apertures 480 for clarity.
   In this variation, each of locating means 570 has central aperture 572 through
   which stem 430 (not shown) is received. This variation may be suitable for blow
   moulding.
   It will be appreciated that the booster seat of the present invention can be made
10 sufficiently light to avoid the need to tether the seat to the vehicle and can be
   configured to fold for storage yet still has the ability to cater for children of
   different heights. This provides a user of the seat with improved mobility to
   transport and use of the seat in a variety of options.
   It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and
15 variations may be made to the products of the invention described herein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
   Orientational terms used in the specification and claims such as top, upper and
   lower are to be interpreted as relational and are based on the premise that the
   component, item, article, apparatus, device or instrument will usually be
20 considered in a particular orientation, typically with the child safety seat
   uppermost.

   The Claims defining the Invention are as follows:
   1.    A child safety seat for a vehicle wherein in use a child in position upon the
         seat is restrained by a vehicle seat belt having a sash portion passing over
         a shoulder of the child and a lap portion passing over the lap of the child,
 5       the child safety seat including:
         a base configured to be supported on a seat of a vehicle;
         a backrest;
         a headrest; and
         a stem connecting the headrest to the backrest;
10       wherein the stem is adapted to provide a path for moving the headrest
         between a first position and a second position with respect to the
         backrest;
         and wherein the headrest includes means for both adjusting the sash
         portion in relation to the child's shoulder and guiding the headrest with
15       respect to the path.
   2.    The child safety seat of claim 1, wherein the stem is fixed to the headrest
         and slidable on the backrest.
   3.    The child safety seat of claim 1, wherein the stem is fixed to the backrest
         and the headrest is slidable on the stem.
20 4.    The child safety seat of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a first support
         means is provided on the stem and/or the backrest.
   5.    The child safety seat of claim 4, wherein the first support means is in the
         form of one or more tracks.
   6.    The child safety seat of claim 4 or 5, wherein a second support means is
25       provided on the headrest in the form of one or more rails.
   7.    The child safety seat of claim 6 wherein the first support means is adapted
         to cooperate with the second support means.
   8.    The child safety seat of any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the means for
         adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for
30       guiding the headrest with respect to the path includes a sash guide for the
                                             20

       sash portion and a projection for engaging the first support means.
   9.  The child safety seat of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the means for
       adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for
       guiding the headrest with respect to the path includes two sash guide for
 5     the sash portion connected to a horizontal bar.
   10. The child safety seat of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the means for
       adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and for
       guiding the headrest with respect to the path includes a sash guide for
       the sash portion and a lower portion to strengthen the stem.
10 11. A child safety seat for a vehicle wherein in use a child in position upon the
       seat is restrained by a vehicle seat belt having a sash portion passing over
       a shoulder of the child and a lap portion passing over the lap of the child,
       the child safety seat including:
       a base configured to be supported on a seat of a vehicle;
15     a backrest;
       a headrest; and
       a stem fixed to the backrest for connecting the headrest to the backrest;
       wherein the stem is adapted to provide a path for moving the headrest
       between a first position and a second position with respect to the
20     backrest;
       and wherein the headrest includes:
       -    means for guiding the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder
           and
       -   locating means for guiding the headrest with respect to the path.
25
   12. The child safety seat of claim 11, wherein a first support means is
       provided on the stem and/or the backrest.
   13. The child safety seat of claim 12, wherein the first support means is in the
30     form of one or more tracks.
   14. The child safety seat of claim 12 or 13, wherein a second support means is
       provided on the headrest in the form of one or more rails.
35 15.   The child safety seat of claim 14 wherein the first support means is
                                          21

       adapted to cooperate with the second support means.
   16.  The child safety seat of any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein the headrest
       has an inner surface which in use is adjacent to the child's head and an
 5     outer surface which is use is adjacent to a back of the vehicle seat and the
       locating means is on the outer surface.
   17.  The child safety seat of claim 16, wherein the locating means is integrally
       formed on the headrest.
10
   18. The child safety seat of claim 16, wherein the locating means is in one or
       more separate parts, secured to the headrest.
   19.  The child safety seat any one of claims 11 to 18, wherein the locating
       means are substantially perpendicular to the path.
15 20.  The child safety seat of any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein the locating
       means forms an aperture to allow the headrest to movably locate with
       regard to the stem from the first position to the second position.
   21. The child safety seat of any one of claims 11 to 20, wherein there are two
       parallel locating means.
20 22. The child safety seat according to any one of the preceding claims,
       wherein a push button on the headrest is adapted to lock the headrest in
       relation to the stem.
   23. The child safety seat of claim 22, wherein the push button includes a
       biasing means to bias the push button outwardly, away from the stem.
25 24. The child safety seat according to any one of the preceding claims, which
       includes a cup holder.
   25. The child safety seat of claim 24, wherein the cup holder is at least
       partially formed in a side of the base.
   26. The child safety seat of claim 25, wherein the cup holder includes a
30     retaining strap.
   27. A child safety seat according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
       the seat has a weight of less than 2 Kg.
   28. A child safety seat according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein
       the backrest is pivotally mounted with respect to the base to facilitate
35     folding of the backrest such that the backrest can be moved between a
       first position whereby it extends substantially perpendicular to the base for
                                          22

       use, and a second position whereby the backrest extends substantially
       parallel to the base for storage.
   29. An adjustable headrest for a child safety seat for a vehicle, wherein in use
       a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle seat belt having
 5     a sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap portion
       passing over the lap of the child, wherein the headrest includes means for
       both adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and
       guiding the headrest with respect to a path for moving the headrest
       between a first position and a second position with respect to a backrest of
10     the child safety seat.
   30.  An adjustable headrest for a child safety seat for a vehicle, wherein in use
       a child in position upon the seat is restrained by a vehicle seat belt having
       a sash portion passing over a shoulder of the child and a lap portion
       passing over the lap of the child, wherein the headrest includes means for
15     adjusting the sash portion in relation to the child's shoulder and locating
       means for guiding the headrest with respect to a path for moving the
       headrest between a first position and a second position with respect to a
       backrest of the child safety seat.
20
                                          23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
